ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that it is only a violation of the Rules of Procedure and not by misery. But yesterday I tried to point out to you that ministers should prepare themselves when they come to the National Assembly session and that they should watch what they say, that they have no right to express their intimate feelings, especially not what they think about the Constitution, what they think about the state, about the arrangement, that they are obliged to fully respect these acts. You're rude, I suppose, in the desire to leave the National Assembly building as soon as possible, interrupted the session last night, even though you saw that I was looking for a word. I want to read you a copy of the stenogram now, why I actually came to the end of the session last night and answered the word. Mrs. Minister first said, "It was pointed out here and that the laws were quickly in the process. I will remind you of the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, which provides for judicial laws to be found in parliamentary procedure at the second session of parliament. I know that was impossible. As the Ministry of Justice last year, fully aware of the responsibilities and those facts, we deviated from that deadline precisely for the reason that the laws when we propose them were thoroughly prepared. "So, the minister says they, as the Justice Ministry, have stepped down with good intentions from the constitutional deadline. Then just a minute later, he says, "It was also a matter of whether we needed to respect the Constitution. I may not fully agree with the Constitution on some provisions concerning the judiciary, but as soon as the Constitution is in force and the laws are in force, which have been voted in parliament, and as regards the Constitution which has been confirmed in the referendum, as a representative of the executive authority and at the head of the Justice Ministry, I will fully respect them." Madam Minister, how can I believe that you yellows are ready to lead this country in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, when you say that the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution did not oblige you on the time limits for the regulation of the judiciary, and then, it seems to me like it was only a minute later that you say that you will always respect the Constitution voted in a referendum and the laws voted in parliament. We will talk about judicial laws when the right laws come to order, but now I ask you, what is your understanding of the Constitution and how the Ministry of Justice will act. Whether in case he thought that the Constitution should not be respected, because that would be better, or if you said that the Constitution must be respected because it was voted in a referendum. You represent here a political group that has double standards... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and it is particularly dangerous if we apply these double standards to the Constitution and to the judiciary. That is why, as the moral winner of Sunday's elections, as a representative of the party who has fully proved its legality, unlike some who no longer have it, who need to think about it, I really want Serbia to be a serious, well-organised state, with good laws that will be respected, so I ask you to define whether you will respect the Constitution and the laws, even when you don't like them, even when they impose much more stringent deadlines on you than you are willing to meet, or by making us believe that the road to hell is filled with good intentions. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you should have given me your word yesterday. Today, I already see, the ballers are prepared, they don't know that new choices are being prepared to go out, not banging, where the party should represent serious people, not bucquets and slanderers. So please, whenever there is a need to respect the dignity of the Assembly and of Serbia, give the word immediately. Thank you. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6898	Thank you. Mr. Milos Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure. It's not common after the promoter to get word for it. On several occasions, I asked, before Mrs. Secretary got his word yesterday, if anyone else wanted a word. So I really didn't realize you were advertising the Rules of Procedure. I thought you called in to participate in the debate, and she was actually done. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6899	Article 27 and Article 104. Rules of Procedure. At the very beginning, I must tell you, Madam President, that if you gave the previous speaker almost five minutes to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I expect you to at least be nearly tolerated to me. A statement was heard yesterday, and today it can be read in the paper, for example, here in the press, a statement by the president of the Parliament's Club for European Serbia Hope Kolundzija, whose essence comes down to the following, and I will try to quote it; it asked, among other things, that the Democratic Party of Serbia and Kostunica were on the same side with Thaci and what it really says about the DSS attacks that Serbia would recognise independent Kosovo if it accepts EULEX. With this statement, equating in one very cheap political context the former president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and twice the prime minister of this country, Vojislav Kostunica, who is once prime minister, always for the citizens of Serbia, if we respect our own state, it is not just a person, as for me and the late Zoran Djindjic is always the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what political then I think of him and what I think today politically of his role, but remains the fact that he was the prime minister of this country, which must serve as a basis for respect for these facts for every citizen of Serbia, let alone the heads of the parliamentary groups, as the most exclusive figures of political life in this House. I think that statement is a shame and that the only thing that can be washed away is not enough, but only it can, that we can continue to work normally in this House, to apologize to the head of the Parliament's Parliament's Parliament club for the European Serbia's other MPs, and above all to the citizens of Serbia for such a statement. What further does the head of the Parliament Club for European Serbia, Nada Kolundzia, say in his statement yesterday? Among other things, he said, if Serbia achieved that Ahtisaari's plan would not be implemented and Kosovo, that the Eulexa mission would be status neutral and the Security Council mandated, it would be a new diplomatic victory, etc. That is what she wanted to show, I suppose, that the insistence of the Democratic Party of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica to preserve territorial integrity is the same as breaking the state by Hashim Thaci. She was likely to say that her statement on status neutrality, a statement by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic on status neutrality, is on the line to preserve territorial integrity. So how can it be? Resolution 1244 is a Security Council resolution in favour of the territorial integrity of the state and cannot be argued by the state and its authorities that any international mission in Kosovo is status neutral. UNMIK was not a status neutral mission. UNMIK was a mission and is still a mission in Kosovo and Metohija that is not statusally neutral. The mission in Kosovo and Metohija should and should, according to Resolution 1244, guarantee the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. You, ladies and gentlemen, have forgotten it, so when the head of the Parliament Club for European Serbia wants to compete with other MPs and politically outwitting the goal and purpose... (President: Time. Bring the end, Mr. Aligrudic. )......................................................................................................... Thank you. Five minutes of speaking my predecessor, you never once warned him, this is a very important thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6900	Mr. Zoran Krasic. I'd ask you to hold on to your time and finish your thought at least when it's three minutes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6901	I would ask that, when you chair the National Assembly session, you have a Rules of Procedure in front of you and that you always have Articles 27 and 104 in mind. At the beginning of this session, a "Smoki" called, and "Smoki" gave us a high moral lecture on how to break oaths, how the moral winner, found it appropriate to criticise the government representative and began with the words that the government representative was expressing his intimate feelings yesterday, and the lady said the bill had come in the procedure. Well, if that's what you think you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to call Mrs. Kukolj from the territory of Old Town Municipality, who has lived for 16 years on the route of the Old Town municipalities and the court in charge, awaiting a first-degree verdict. Because there is much greater right to speak in this room by Mrs. Kukolj, as a citizen, than the citizen of Smoki, who gives us moral lectures, and yesterday I informed you that the case from the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office has been moved to the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, that it should be done, that you are protecting crime in the National Assembly, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Why, you can judge that yourself. Citizens of Serbia, know what this is about. Smokey came out to point the debate at the other side, not to talk about the courts, not to talk about one very dangerous statement by Mrs. Hope Kolundji, not to talk about how the National Assembly works and whether there are all people here who have this legality and legitimacy so that they can vote on some laws. Here you have people hiding, who thanks to crime you are guarding, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, with Boris Tadic. They answer to you, if it were to be a pebble one that would move the discussion, so that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would not know what is coming, what is going on. And a miracle, a man who works to kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, who did the coup, but his coup failed, is here with you a protected beast and can do whatever he wants in this National Assembly. You made him a party, you made him a parliamentary group, you let him be in all the media, you keep him from responding because he blocked the Serbian Radical Party with over 68 million dinars. He broke Serbia. (President: Time. He's breaking Serbia, remember. I'll get back to you, ma'am, we've got work to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6902	Mr. Aligrudic, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6903	Thanks for the extension. So, if Madam President wants you to stick to the Rules of Procedure, then let's be strict in these three minutes. Don't do it one way or the other, then break it off to everyone in three minutes and 10 seconds, take away his word and turn off the microphone. So Ahtisaari's plan in Kosovo is being implemented through Mission Eulex. It is the only way to implement Ahtisaari's plan and the only way the European Union has come up with a plan to implement it. Anex 10 envisions Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The so-called independent formation has so far brought the constitution of Kosovo and Metohija and the accompanying laws to serve in the implementation of the constitution. The constitution has nothing more to do than prove that there is an independent state of Kosovo and Metohija. If EULEX, which is his essential goal, is to implement the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and the accompanying laws, Eulex does nothing but supports and implement Ahtisaari's plan, Annex 10 and Kosovo's independence and Metohija. You can claim that you've agreed with whoever you want, that it's called a status neutral mission. It, in its essence and its basis, according to the objectives of the documents on which it was founded, is nothing but the support of independence. I repeat once again, there is no termology - status neutrality. The UNMIK mission is not status neutral. The UNMIK mission, a valid mission under Resolution 1244, serves to ensure Serbia's territorial integrity. The moment Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic say they are pushing for the arrival of an international mission, any one, even if it has adopted a UN Security Council, which is statusally neutral -- it is immediately giving up part of its territory. How do you people not get that? When we talk about this thing and we say that you're trying to replace the thesis to trick the citizens of Serbia and talk about some coming so-called. The diplomatic initiative - you Serbian citizens lie. When you're told that you're lying to Serbian citizens, then you come up with an amazing trick, to make a statement, and Hope Kolundji obviously came up with either herself or someone has to say it, you say -- that this shows that in the refusal of Eulex there is a great resemblance between Thaci and Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS. You should be ashamed of that. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is apologize to the citizens of Serbia who are not obliged to suffer such schemes, nor such comparisons, or at least to clarify your statement that you made yesterday, which was published today by the newspaper. If we don't hear it today... (President: Time. Would you like to bring an end to the discussion, please? ..... finishing... I'm afraid we'll be forced to speak this way until we hear such a statement from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6904	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6905	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Madam President, when a MP comes out for this address and is insultingly expressed about a member of parliament or an MP, then the head of the parliamentary group has the opportunity to replicate, also using this speaker, and that's fine. But when a citizen comes out for this pay phone, thanks to the MP's majority allowing it, and because you allow it, then the question arises whether he can be derailed at all and whether such a man's MP has the right to replicate. He's no doubt a voter and I assume he was an SRS voter. That's why we may have some obligation to this man - how to treat him and how to address him from this pay phone. But in the meantime, he lost every opportunity to come out for this pay phone because he is no longer a member of the SRS, is not an SRS MP, and it goes to the soul of this parliamentary majority. We have to tell you every time, because in history he will be listed as the man who tried to break the last national party and the strongest national party in Serbia. Of course, the West imagined that these parties were gone, of course he didn't regret any effort or money to achieve it. It is ours, of course, to defend ourselves from it and to convince citizens that we must safeguard Serbian national interests and that we are the political force that can do this. But in this way you are destroying parliamentary democracy and destroying the integrity of this Parliament. Every time any of that group comes out for this pay phone, we're gonna have to come out and distract you, so now whoever gets sick of it, either you or us. I don't think Mom will, simply because we've always advocated respecting the Constitution and the law. I'm not stopping this gentleman from waiting for the election, from going to elections, from offering his political program, his ideology, which he says he doesn't have. But it doesn't matter, maybe the citizens don't need it. He may win 100 terms, so let him enter this assembly and speak, but until then he can only be in the lobby, where journalists or journalists who know him very well and who have great communication with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6906	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, my answer would be a repeated story, so I won't bother you. MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6907	Dear fellow Members of the People, yesterday I responded to the statement by our parliamentary group's head for European Serbia, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, but what I want to say today is one message to the president of Parliament by our parliamentary group -- that we expect, simply, an additional explanation from Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, that is, the apology of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija for what is said here. Therefore, a member of the 104 - dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, and you too are taking part, Madam Presidents, for the simple reason that you, too, on behalf of Parliament, can give that apology. Here, I can imagine that Mrs. Hope Kolundji will not do it, then you are obliged to do so - or, together with Mrs. Hope Kolundji, to participate in the degradation of this Parliament. I want to remind you here, I don't know if you're aware, we're going to be going out on this issue today as long as we don't get it, I said - an additional explanation from you, did you really say this, or an apology, if that's what you really mean. Otherwise, parliament will not work on agenda points. I'm giving you one proposal, or Mrs. Hope Kolundzie, to come out here and solve this dilemma, or to give you a 15-minute break. Believe me, if you're stubborn, eventually we'll get to that break. I would ask you, indeed, because you are not objective when it comes to dropping MPs from the ruling majority. So, I invite you to come out here, say something about your head of Parliament's statement -- do you really think Mr. Vojislav Kostunica and Mr. Thaci are on the same side? Here I presented the thesis that Mr. Tadic appears to be on the same side as Milo Djukanovic. So don't attack the DSS to try to wash your guilty conscience. After all, the vast majority of you have no idea what Mr. Tadic, what Mr. Jeremic is doing on behalf of this country. Of course I know what they're doing, because if you're calling for the continuity of politics here, then I don't know how you can say someone's on Mr. Thaci's side. Because if you say he's on Mr. Thaci's side, then there's no policy continuity, and that policy we all know very little about -- you in particular. Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija, as head for European Serbia, has this obligation and today you have the responsibility to start this day, as the debate on the laws that are on the agenda began yesterday - or you will be faced with the release of all DSS MPs and we will insist on your apology, or an additional explanation, but we will also disclose what is actually done in the UN and not only in the UN... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But what is done in the agreement seems to be done with Hashim Thaci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6908	National MP Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6909	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, we had a pretty successful day yesterday. To say that we are the first point, and this was a united debate on three draft laws, we were in principle able to finish, or a day would be good about the Assembly and the work that Mrs Nada Kolundzija did not, as my colleague said the other day, waved journalists around the Assembly -- to make a statement that Kostunica and Thaci are on the same side, that the DSS is the party that has the same view of resolving the Kosovo issue, as has Hashim Thaci. We last night, or a group of MPs reacted quite emotionally, which is mostly not good in politics. Here, we have now slept through, so cold heads we ask Mrs. Kolundzija and the President of Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's Assembly to apologize to the DSS MPs, DSS President Vojislav Kostunica and all Serbian citizens. You have reasons for any other apologies, and one reason is that you do not want to tell the citizens of Serbia what you are doing, what the president of Serbia is doing and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. Come on, explain to the citizens what kind of negotiations you're having, who's on that negotiating team, drop by drop the public finds out about some conditions. So you don't know anything about it. You do it and you conduct secret negotiations. When we suggested that this debate be opened here, that MPs also be informed and citizens, you, rudely violating the Constitution, did not allow it. So we'll talk about it, you say, when this session is over, which will actually take a long time. When it comes to the status of neutrality, you well know that UNMIK was not status neutral. UNMIK's role was to preserve Serbia's sovereignty and integrity, so you are now introducing a story on how EULEX will be neutral. That's no guarantee. Also, you know that it cannot be neutral when EULEX is tasked with implementing the Constitution so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. So there will be no implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What you need to do is tell the citizens the truth about what you're doing. Also, to tell the truth that DSS and Vojislav Kostunica are trying to stop you from doing this. So today we will discuss this until Mrs Kolundzija or the president of the Assembly apologizes to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6910	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6911	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I call on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I request an apology on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group from the president and head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. The way the president of Serbia deceives Serbian citizens, the way this government runs this country, the way it works in the Assembly, the way the sessions are held and the way opposition MPs are not allowed to work, because it is being commented that it is an obstruction, all this shows that there is no democracy in the country of Serbia, but we see that there is also so much propaganda. In addition, this statement by Mrs Kolundzija, which is a typical example of political inculture, is also an example of hate speech, which is usually accused by other parties. Why is it important to say this? Why did the lady say that? The DSS is an opposition party and it is very precise, point by point, attitude by attitude, criticising the government's work. So, in addition, what's most important, it offers suggestions on how to do it. What is most important at this time is that the DSS recognized your game around EULEX and what informs citizens, which part by part we reveal your lies about how EULEX is status neutral, how it raises our state's capacity, how it just needs a Security Council decision to make and he is welcome in Serbia's territory, despite all the decisions made by this National Assembly. Finally, what's most important is why DSS and Vojislav Kostunica were accused of shoulder-to-shoulder with Thaci. Because we reveal that those who have made your government have made it not to resolve the issue of pensions, nor to resolve any economic issue in this country, but to bring EULEX into this country, to amnesty Europe of what it has done and to lie to the citizens of Serbia. That's why the DSS has been charged in this way and put side by side with Thaci.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6912	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic according to the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 225. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Extraordinary elections were held Sunday in four municipalities in Serbia, including the municipality of Ruma. I don't want to comment on the results of the election at all, but I just want to let you know (don't be nervous, it's not healthy) about the way DS has been collecting votes from citizens - the running ministers, their deputies and assistants, the province's secretaries, the people's and the province's MPs are sparring on all sides and sharing packages with citizens. Here I brought a package (shows a package) to the Assembly. Here, you see, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, this is how much human dignity costs in Serbia today, and this is how the DS collects the votes of Serbian citizens. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'll leave this package for you. When Javier Solana and Olli Rehn come to Serbia to negotiate whether Serbia will enter the EU in 2025 or 2050 in 2050, and in the breaks of these talks, here, offer them, you have pastures, ajvar, peppers, jams, you have the means to wash dishes, so that people don't stay hungry. I request a notice, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, from which funds are the distribution of these packages financed? Whether the ministers, the province's secretaries, the DS MPs, are buying from their pockets such things, which in the most harsh way are insulting human dignity, or are being provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or from the budget of the AP Vojvodina. They have divided thousands of such packages into citizens. Roma even shared mobile phones, money, etc., so I'm curious about which funds such a thing is funded. Hundreds of thousands of citizens lost their jobs, robbed them, took their money, and then for the money the citizens share these things. Mr. Micunovic, I know you're not comfortable, you're a highly moral man, but as you can see, your DS friends have improved democratic ideology and it's a shame that John Locke, John Stuart Mil, are not now living, etc., to see what democracy looks like in practice today in Serbia and how you from a thieving yellow company imagine Serbia entering the EU. Here, through packages like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6914	Mr. MP, the role you're suggesting to me would degrade the level of this high house, I cannot accept it, and a complete stenogram will be sent to the government. Mrs. Milica Radovic, I'm paying attention to Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. I believe that the most gravely injured is the dignity of the National Assembly and that the most gravely injured dignity of every DSS MP is individual. This statement by Mrs Nada Kolundzhija is so offensive that it simply does not resemble the head of a parliamentary group that has a European omen in its name. It would be the same as if I were to now say that DS, Goran Davidovic and the National Machine are on the same side because they have banned the debate in this House on the point that a ban on the work of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations has been proposed. Do you think that's the level at which the ambassadors should speak? We have simply been bothering you here for months, as you can say, with arguments as to why the presence of Eulex is dangerous in the Republic of Serbia. We've been pointing to the perilousness and danger of this government's actions. Each of Serbia's citizens knows that the price of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is precisely the presence of Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija. What will be the price for obtaining EU membership candidate status? We can assume that. We know that this is exactly the establishment of good neighbourly relations between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Is that supposed to be the price? For these very reasons, what we can at least ask of you is an apology, both to DSS MPs, both to the president of the DSS and to the general Serbian public.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6916	Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6917	Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to join, of course, the appeal of the DSS MPs. I want to point out another fact. It is interesting that last night, no electronic media on high-speed news shows from six o'clock in the evening has released a statement by the red Madam President of the Parliament Club for European Serbia. It's not yellow, it's red. I now understand why the DS Assembly was postponed for 2010. As much as she paints in yellow, she can't be, and you from DS, you know, she can't be anything more than an orange one, but for nothing, it's just on the outside again, because she's red on the inside, and she showed it by this statement, and Mr. Boris Tadic wanted her to be vice president of the women's DS, so she rebelled so she didn't want to. In addition to several other situations you have, behold, the fact that the red lady, the president of your parliamentary group, is one of the reasons why you are delaying the assembly. Her statement yesterday and what the electronic media were doing last night prove that it was in fact the one who led this country that assessed that she had made a mistake in the statement, tried to prevent it from appearing in the media, and here we are trying to hear it, and to know what she said and that the whole of Serbia knows. But what is even worse, it proves that your regime is worse than the red regime of Slobodan Milosevic and that it is the same as the red regime of Josip Broz Tito, when nothing else could and could not be heard but only what is the official thought of the authorities. You yesterday, i.e. whoever runs this country did not allow Serbian citizens to hear what the red president of your parliamentary group said. This is the naked dictatorship in Serbia, the clearest dictatorship. And how do you think with the dictatorial regime we're going to the EU? Yesterday was 10 years from the formation of the Resistance. On yesterday, Mrs. Hope Kolundjia said what she said. We're not going to stand today until we hear an apology, because it's obvious that she said something wrong, because no electronic media, I repeat, has passed it on, and in the daily press in a very small space. But even more dangerous than her statement, she doesn't appear in the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6918	National MP Dejan Mirovic, then Mr Milan Lapcevic. I would remind you that citizens expect us to continue a joint principled search of a set of judicial laws. I think your messages really came to them. I'd really like to ask you to try to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6919	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 104, which guarantees the dignity of the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 103, which states that it is only a matter that is on the agenda, I find it inappropriate that political marketing, media spinning and euphoria, or anything we have to endure almost daily in our media, is transmitted here in this home. It is particularly inappropriate that, according to the actors themselves, oligarchs such as Miskovic, who is not a member of parliament, as is known, nor Mr Manter. I think it is incorrect to burden our public with self-gratification and because, as far as we know, there are not only four municipalities in Serbia and they do not make up five percent of the total number of municipalities. Also, if you are already talking about election results on such a sample, isolated and with such euphoria, you should remember the following facts, they are more than educational. Tomislav Nikolic won about 5% of the vote or around 289,000 votes in the September 2000 presidential elections as an SRS candidate. Only two years later, in the presidential elections, Dr Vojislav Seselj won over 36% of the vote or over a million votes. So, you need to look at a bit of a broader context and you'll get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6920	National MP Mr Milan Lapcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6921	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and of all MPs and to address them with respect. I believe that Mrs. Nada Kolundjia yesterday, making a statement in the building of the National Assembly, deeply injured the dignity of the National Assembly, and also the dignity of me as a National MP, and not only of dignity, but of my feelings. So, you have, once an untasteful and unmoved statement, not to say that it is rude and brazen, identified Vojislav Kostunica, the DSS, and me who belong to that party and me as a MP and all my colleagues from my parliamentary group, with Hashim Thaci and with a policy he implements in the secession and independence of Kosovo. You hurt my feelings deeply. And what did you mean by that? It is obvious that what you didn't go to elections with, in a way that you didn't get citizens' trust, today you want to drag on a small door and cloud the truth, then you need to turn the subject and identify our efforts to clarify things about the Eulex mission and its alleged today's acceptability for Serbia, attacking Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS and identifying our efforts with the pawning of a terrorist named Hashim Thaci. So, you went to the election on 11 May with the 'Is Kosovo and Europe' password. What's left of it? It's not Kosovo, it's not Europe. In December of last year, you voted in this assembly for a resolution that makes EULEX unacceptable in Kosovo because it implements Marty Ahtisaari's plan, which has as one of its main goals of Kosovo's independence. Since you did not present this in your campaign at the time, that you will advocate the non-acceptability of Eulex, today you want to show it to the National Assembly, that is to say, to avoid bringing up a new resolution on Kosovo, which you do not have a majority, and then you say that the policy we stand for is the same policy that has been implemented by Hashim Thaci. Mrs. Kolundjia, gentlemen of the DS, gentlemen of the assembly majority, you are required to respect the decisions of the National Assembly. The current National Assembly resolution says EULEX is unacceptable in Kosovo. If you want it to be acceptable, it is a national and state issue, you must ask for a mandate from the people or mandate from the National Assembly. The least you can do is say that you didn't mean it and apologize to everyone, especially the MPs of the DSS and its president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6922	MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6923	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 104. We heard yesterday an irresponsible and irresponsible statement by Mrs. Kolundzija, who insulted all DSS members, insulted Serbian citizens, insulted us MPs in this assembly, insulted our President Vojislav Kostunica by comparing him to Hashim Thaci, a war criminal. That the war criminal, in addition to that, is that Mr Batic, who sits in front of me, collected evidence and proved that he is a war criminal and sent it to The Hague tribunal. Mrs Kolundzija, we expect you, Serbian citizens who voted in favour of Vojislav Kostunica's politics, to apologize to all of them, to apologize to those people, the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, 70,000, who have signed a declaration that they do not want Eulex on their territory. I'll only remind you one thing. Boris Tadic publicly said in 2002, apologized to all Serbian citizens that DS members voted from Bodrum, that they had voted from Thessaloniki. We expect it today from you, to say, yes, I was wrong, I apologize to Vojislav Kostunica, I apologize to the members of the DSS, I apologize to the citizens of Serbia, I apologize to all of you, exactly, I made a mistake. We also expect from you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, if Mrs Kolundzija does not, that you too should apologize on behalf of the ruling majority. A nice word opens an iron door. So much, Mrs. Kolundjia. We expect an apology from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6924	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6925	I don't know if you needed an excuse to attack and insult me or if it was mistranslated or misunderstood what I said yesterday. So, what I said yesterday, on the question of journalists how I comment on the fact that under Serbia's terms in the Security Council, the mandate of EULEX is that, respecting what Serbia requires as conditions, it is against Thaci and the DSS. I responded that the fact that Kosovo Albanians and their political leaders are opposed to the strictest possibility that in the Security Council, under the conditions of Serbia, Eulex will give a mandate which will also be status neutral, which will not implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan and which will have an undeniable mandate of the UN Security Council. And that the only question I'm not giving an answer to is how is that for the DSS to that end also unacceptable for Vojislav Kostunica. That's all I said. If in any way you see the politics of Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS, related to KIM, I put on the same side, then there is a serious misunderstanding, because of course there is no same policy. It is only that, under the conditions of Serbia, the strongest opposition has been expressed by the Albanian side. On the question of journalists -- how does this compare with the fact that the DSS is opposed, I left it as an open question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6926	The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6927	Well, the lines are in the Rules of Procedure, too. I think I have the right to answer Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia to what she said. In fact, that's exactly what we've been asking you all morning to hear the clarification of your statement. What was published in the media, published by Beta, which is one of the leading media agencies in Serbia, and what the press published, as well as the DSS response, the DSS spokesman today, on your statement, that is all the public could know so far. Anyway, thank you for your interpretation. We don't agree on key things here. When it comes to political interpretation of what you said, we can't agree at all. Namely, I believe that the Eulexa mission, as a good part of Serbia's citizens, has the essential aim of implementing the Kosovo Constitution and the accompanying laws, which is actually the implementation of the Anex 10 Ahtisaari plan, which ultimately leads to the material independence of Kosovo, the essential independence of Kosovo, whatever anyone in secret, or publicly negotiated, and whatever title they place on the Eulexa mission. I am the status of neutrality in this context is deeply opposed to Resolution 1244, it is not statusally neutral. You know that. It envisions a status solution under a certain mechanism, but in itself it is not a status neutral and a state's disapproval of integrity, citing the circumstances that Serbia advocates in its conditions for a status neutral mission itself is devastating. That's what we pointed to. When a statement was given the way it was given, I know what you meant to say, that's what we understood. You were going to say, citing the fact that both one political party in Serbia and its leader against the Eulex mission and against the conditions that Serbia has given. I've given that explanation, and we can work it out. That someone else who advocates separatism in Serbia, who is a separatist, also against it, are facts, but what affects your statement, and we're not going to talk about it today, I'm practically finishing this discussion, whether it was a question of journalists, whether you were simply provoked by one question, so you said, but when it's published and put into context that story and simply said that there are two entities who reject something that is brilliantly thought out by Boris Tadic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then it's the feeling of those who watch, hear or read, just putting it in the same basket. Now that it's clear to me from your statement that you didn't want to do it, then we accept it as your explanation at the moment, but believe that such things must be kept together. We can differ in terms of politics, in terms of what is the essence, which is the matter of what we are discussing, but when such differences are in terms of such an important matter, these kinds of wit, intentional or unintentional, they certainly cannot go in favour of the development of democratic institutions in Serbia, in favour of the development of the spirit of tolerance and the atmosphere in this home. What is a fact and what will remain as a difficult and difficult fact for the citizens of Serbia, is that from March or April of this year, a single state position in Serbia over KIM and all the trouble we are about to see has been broken out from that fact. It is precisely because of this fact and because of an obvious mortgage, because of the burden of the new ruling coalition to implement something that is very difficult for them and that it is very difficult for them to explain to the citizens of Serbia, which is why suddenly something that, according to the National Assembly resolution, has become unacceptable now, that it is a inhibitory factor for all of you in the ruling coalition, for the government itself to implement a government policy and on the rest of the country of 85% of the territory, when it comes to implementing elemental things related to economic policy, social policy, the position of Serbian citizens, for economic reforms and everything else, that I am not talking about the very path to the EU, which is obviously blocked.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6928	I realized the other DSS MPs would give up. Dobrislav Prelic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I appeal to Article 104 - that is the dignity of the National Assembly. By who knows which time you let a citizen Tomislav Nikolic go out for this pay phone and speak to us in the Assembly. At the end of his presentation, he had to mention the elections held in these four municipalities. Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, I will now say, for the sake of the citizens, firstly, why elections were held in these four municipalities. Weekly elections in these four municipalities are just another fraud between Tadic and Tom Nikolic. We are now sure all of us as citizens of Serbia that these four municipalities have been typed and prepared to show that the mood of citizens is on their side. It was only wrong for the elections to be held even in Kikinda, because everything was prepared there to show that Toma Nikolic is some political size, which can trust citizens and that she has a programme and a political idea, which will provide citizens with a better life that Tadic has promised. Since all indicators say that Tadic and his satellites have deceived citizens of hope for a better life, as early as months ago they prepared these four areas to throw aside everything this government has done and everything this government has not done and has not fulfilled its pre-election promises to its citizens. No pre-election promise has been fulfilled. Mr. Nikolic, if you had any morals, you'd do it, and now I'm looking into your eyes, just like I did. After 24 hours, I realized that I had made a mistake and done as every Serbian radical was taught, to restore the mandate of the SRS. You, Mr. Nikolic, were on the SRS list, where the first on the list was Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and your best man. Mr. Nikolic, at the airport Mr. Seselj told you that he leaves you two families: his family and the SRS. To take more care of the SRS than the Adriatic and the children. The way you did this is more than hypocritical, irresponsible and corrupt. Mr. Nikolic, show some dignity, return the mandates of the SRS, and win 100 seats in the next election, let them be to you, but let the citizens judge who they will trust in the next election. Return the mandates of the SRS and show some morale at least. Since you are a builder, I hope you know what the surplus is, don't be an extra one to Boris Tadic. Return the mandates of the SRS and show some morale at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6930	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). After him, the word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6931	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, before we begin on the agenda, I would like to request clarifications and explanations from the Minister of Justice, Mrs Malovic - why in the course of yesterday's debate on three laws in his, as the minister said, presentation, did not mention the judiciary and the prosecution in the territory of the Autonomous province of KIM? You, Madam Minister, with this new bill of law, have decided to withdraw the judiciary from KIM. Of the 60 courts that are suing, you leave only three courts in your proposal. It's a criminal court, a basic court and a Supreme Court, a basic public prosecutor's office one and more public prosecutor's office one. Yesterday I was talking about it, you ladies ministers weren't there, so now I'm asking you a question - why did you do it? In these secret negotiations, in the end and on the KIM judiciary, which you agreed with Umnik, why did you accept a 60-day deadline to implement the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the SFRY, which were in force until 22 March 89? Is this advocating and strengthening the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to KIM? I think this is a serious topic and that you should take this subject very seriously, to consider the amendments submitted by the DSS, which, yesterday I said, again, fully accept rationalisation and savings, but on the other hand, you must understand the needs of the Serb and all other population in KIM, who recognise the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. What laws will UNMIK apply after these 60 days before EULEX arrives? With such a proposal, you have wide-opened the door for EULEX prosecutors and judges to implement the Kosovo Constitution and the law. (Chairman: Time) Since it's a very important topic, just give me a little time and I'll be done real quick.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6933	National MP, the time set for breach of the Rules of Procedure is not measured by the importance or non-importantness of the subject but by three minutes. In three minutes and thirty seconds, you have time to complete your exposure. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6934	Under Articles 225 and 226, I need information, in fact, to answer the question asked by the president of the Assembly -- did she receive a petition with 70,000 signatures from Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, which oppose EULEX's mission? Another question, which I can personally ask, and probably many MPs on this opposition side -- what does that really mean, status neutrality? Third, who will explain to us who and whose name is he negotiating and what are the six famous conditions? As a psychologist, I know that value neutrality is the basic idea of various psychotherapys and groups of encounters stemming from the hippie movement. It's like, "I'm OK, you're OK, give a place a chance" and so on. These floscules really sound like the basis of today's popular tolerance that is nothing more than a euphemism for indifference. What tolerance it is, unfortunately, was seen from yesterday's statement by Mrs. Kolundzhija, which shows that, like most of these oker representatives, he suffers from Dr. Vojislav Kostunica's obsession syndrome. It is not the only one, because it is generally known to be ex, and we hope very quickly and future, the prime minister was the person who was most mistreated and insulted by the media. Obviously, this competition -- spit out Kostunica -- is not yet closed, as it is not closed -- spit out all those who are nationalally conscious. Today, there are enough of these oker characters who have to hate us for our governmental and national policy. Donka Banovic was right when she found out who actually made the obstruction of the work of this assembly today. Yesterday and how effectively we worked, to the satisfaction of the people who expect it from us, but to the dissatisfaction of the authorities, who decided to break the constructive approach with an offensive and inappropriate statement. Since the constitution, this assembly has been humiliated, disqualified and treated as the executive body of a person in the role of the president, not as the most legislative body. Not only is the government not the executioner of assembly conclusions and binding decisions, but it is again only the extended hand of the wandering president of Serbia, who cannot give us answers to questions from the beginning - who, when and on whose behalf he negotiates on so-called. the status neutrality of the Eulex mission. Eulex is a direct consequence of Ahtisaari's plan and just as much as Marty deserves the Nobel Peace Prize, so is EULEX neutral. What are the six conditions? With or without conditions, Eulex remains Ahtisaari's child. To make things worse, the people of this country are subject to the ultimate American strategy - a good and bad cop. Djelic, such a depraved man, comes as a bad cop who has been harassing a violent Europe, all because of visas, and Jeremic is a good guy who will not just allow for visible legalisation but for the conduct of an occupation of our southern province. The oath of respect for Resolution 1244 is no longer valid, because reality, at least as far as foreign powers are concerned, has changed. Under the resolution, there is an obligation to defend the Constitution and the laws of the state on whose territory the mission is located, but it is a small problem which, following the illegal recognition of so-called. Kosovo's independence, the interpretation that the constitution and the laws of an independent state of Kosovo should actually be defended. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) So the question is, did the president of the assembly take note of these 70,000 signatures by Serbs with KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6935	The word is from MP Vladimir Milentijevic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). The question of the People's Parliament will be addressed to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6936	Thank you. I'll be done very soon. I think such a proposal for this law has harshly violated the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which the Constitution is unlikely to favour the judiciary, so I understand that I am not a lawyer, because the preamble in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in KIM. If you gentlemen feel that this protects the state interests of withdrawing the judiciary from KIM, then you are mistakenly mistaken. If you think that the budget of the judge and the prosecutor's office is being tried by the laws of the Republic of Serbia, if the Eulex mission is to be accepted, I think you are also mistaken. Madam Minister, I have asked you very specific questions. These are arguments, and if you're not in a position to give me an answer right now, given that you didn't do it yesterday, I would ask you to do it in due course, while this debate is going on, do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6937	We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move on to a joint principled search of the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda: –Proposal of the Law on the Judges and Proposal for a LAW ON THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the law of the agenda under points 2 and 3 and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward, Serbia" - 24 minutes; SPS - JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; New Serbia's parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Sends group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs under these points of the agenda: the DSS parliamentary group -- Vojislav Kostunica National MP Miroslav Petkovic, MEP for European Serbia National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, MP group of SRS MP Zoran Krasic, MP group of SPS - JS MP Djordje Milicevic, MP group of LDP MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law on judges and the Proposal for a Law on High Council of the judiciary. Does the representative, Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6938	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to, before I move on to the reasoning of the law, answer the questions that were asked here this morning. I unequivocally said yesterday that as Minister of Justice I would respect the Constitution and the law, I have done so far and will do so in the future. As for the questions raised about the KIM courts and prosecutors, I am deeply convinced that there has been a misunderstanding. I will explain this by referring you to the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, where Article 2(7) provides for the establishment of an infringement court in Kosovo Mitrovica, then the establishment of a court also in Kosovo Mitrovica, also concerns the establishment of a higher court in Article 4(7) and the establishment of a basic prosecutor's office and a higher prosecutor's office. Therefore, it cannot be said that the justice ministry did not take care that Serbia's judiciary existed in KIM territory, as well as in the rest of Serbia's territory. KIM is an integral part of Serbia and the justice ministry will treat it that way. As regards transitional and final provisions that speak of certain cases being subject to basic courts, that is to say, the finding of the existing situation, as these courts are located in buildings of certain municipal courts. Only those cases that have worked so far will be taken over by the basic courts, and the remaining KIM judiciary will continue to exist as it has been done so far. Now I'd like to move on to an explanation of the law on judges and the law on the high council of the judiciary. One of the forms through which the rule of law principle is exercised in practice to divide powers, in addition to guaranteeing direct elections and guaranteeing human and minority rights, is also the independence of the judicial authority. At the same time, the measure of democracy in one society is seen through the attainment of the level of independence of the judiciary, since there is no rule of law unless it is applied by an independent judiciary without anyone's influence. In this sense, the Ministry of Justice's goal is to make constitutional guarantees of judicial independence a reality. Therefore, my great pleasure is the fact that today's debate on the proposal for a law on judges and on the proposal for a law on the high council of the judiciary is on the agenda. Those laws, on the one hand, represent the harmonisation of the laws in this area with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other, they make new solutions, which will lead to a significant reform of the judicial authorities and contribute to increasing their efficiency and improving the quality of their work, with the declared principle of independence of judges and judges. Now, in the shortest lines, I would like to introduce you to the most significant solutions contained in each of these laws. As for the law on judges, the position of judges in the Republic of Serbia is now governed by the Law on Judges of 2001. As the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted on 10 November 2006, a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, at the same time declaring the Constitutional Law to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribed deadlines for the harmonisation of the legal system and the start of the work of state authorities in accordance with their new constitutional position, is imposed, as constitutional obligation, on the adoption of a new law on judges. In this case, the provisions of the Constitution are also an indication to the legislator in the creation of a regulatory framework for the regulation of the judicial authority, without which the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, guaranteed in Article 3 cannot be imagined. The Constitution and declared through the principle of rule of law. In determining the concept of law, it was assumed that the judicial authority is the part of the state authority that should take care of the proper application of the law, that it interprets how a certain regulation is applied in a specific case and determines whether all the necessary conditions and circumstances have been obtained so that a certain rule of law can be applied to the given situation. In order for this concept to be implemented in practice, the law creates premises for the judge to be independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law, and that any influence on the judge in the exercise of the judicial functions is prohibited. The law on judges is passed at a time when our country is in the process of joining the EU, which requires the development of a completely new socio-political concept and legal system, in line with the European values and needs of Serbian citizens. Therefore, there is an obligation for the judicial authority, as part of the overall society, to be fully defined and defined for a longer period. To do so, this law also took into account European standards in the area of the judiciary, such as the basic principles of independence of the judiciary adopted in Milan in 1985, which were adopted by the UN General Assembly resolution in December of the same year, the recommendation number 12 of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the independence, efficiency and role of judges, as well as the European Law on Judges of 1998. The European Law on Judges sets high standards on the status of judges, particularly in view of the independence, independence and impartiality of judges. Also, this law regulates the issues of how judges are appointed and resolved, the sustainability of the judicial function, the right to association and the obligation of judges to work professionally and securely, in order to resolve cases within a reasonable period of time. The general principles and most of the recommendations of the European Law on Judges have been incorporated into the text of the draft law. By installing a solution from international documents into the text of the proposal for a law on judges, it is a normative framework for the judicial authority in our country to have the right place to belong to it in a modern European democratic society. In addition to the above-mentioned international standards, constitutional provisions governing the position of judges, as well as solutions from the National Strategy for Justice Reform, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, were also considered. The Law on Judges is divided into eight chapters: the principles, the position and the choice of judges, the termination of the judge's office, the President of the Court, the jury's judges, the disciplinary responsibility of the judges and the transitional and final provisions. The first mentioned are the principles relating to judicial function, which are independence, continuity and non-movability and material independence. In addition, the provisions of this chapter speak of immunity and liability for damages, as well as the rights of judges to association, to participate in decisions of importance for the work of courts and the right to professional training and training. The second one's in charge of the judge's position. Compared to the solutions set out in the previous Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the new constitution predicts that a judge who is first elected to office has a three-year term. In addition, the paper in relation to the current Law on Judges is a provision that allows the judge to be referred, on the basis of a decision by the High Council of the judiciary, to carry out professional affairs in the high council of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, an institution for training in the judiciary or an international organisation in the field of justice, such as certain committees of the Council of Europe or the European Network of Judges. This reference can last for the longest time in three years. The provisions of the proposal relating to each other's independence, the annual schedule of affairs and cases, as well as the relationship between the judge's office and other services, are largely unchanged in relation to the current Law on Judges. In addition to the above, it should be noted here that a provision giving the judge the right that, in the event that this law does not provide for a special form of protection, he may make a complaint, if he is injured by any right relating to the exercise of the judicial function. A special newspaper in the bill of law is part of which concerns the evaluation of the work of judges. It is a completely new solution that is not contained in the current Law on Judges. The bill provides for the evaluation to be carried out by the judges themselves, i.e. that the judges of the higher court directly value their colleagues in the lower court. The assessment obtained during the evaluation shall form the basis for the promotion, resolution or reference to mandatory forms of training. In the section relating to the material position of the judge, the paper relating to the determination of the judge's salary should be pointed out. In fact, the bill provides that the basis for the calculation and payment of the salary of judges is established in the Budget Law, which contributes to the material independence of judges, as the basis for the payment of salaries is determined by the Government according to a valid solution. The draft law accurately determines the coefficients for the calculation and payment of the judge's salary and these coefficients differ according to the degree of the court in which the judge performs his duties. The paper is also a way of determining the salary increase for the president of the court, by prescribing that the increase depends on the number of judges in the court. The paper also represents an increase in salary for the deputy president of the court, a new function in the court, which is provided for by the draft law on the regulation of courts. Chapter 3 of the bill refers to the choice of judges and contains provisions relating to conditions for choice, selection and entry into office. As has already been said, the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that the judge, who is first elected as a judge, is elected by the National Assembly for a period of three years, and thus such a solution is contained in the text of the bill. After the end of this period, a high council of the judiciary is responsible for this election to permanent office. Unlike the applicable law, the bill sets out precisely the terms of expertise, competence and dignity as conditions for the choice of a judicial function. The bill provides that the criteria and criteria for assessing these conditions for the election are prescribed by the High Council of the judiciary. It should also highlight the provision that the selection of judges, in addition to other criteria, must also take into account the national composition of the population, i.e. the appropriate representation of members of national minorities. Chapter 4 contains provisions relating to the termination of the judicial post. A special newspaper is a provision relating to the termination of the judicial post due to the completion of the working century, which envisions the termination of this post by law enforcement, when the judge turns 65 years of life or 40 years of insurance training. Also, the bill provides that, in exceptional cases, at the request of the president of the court, and on the basis of a decision by the High Council of the judiciary, the working age of the judge can be extended by another two years. The bill contains reasons and procedures for dissuasion of the judge. The paper presents that a judge's discharge initiative can be submitted by any person, and that the resolution procedure is initiated by a proposal from authorised proposings. As a particular reason for the resolution, an unequivocal exercise of the judge's office has been defined precisely, and this is where the judge does not satisfy the assessment when the work is being evaluated. The discharge procedure and the resolution decision shall take high advice from the judiciary, and the judge shall have the right to state his allegations in that procedure. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, an appeal to the Constitutional Court is allowed against the decision of the High Council of the judiciary on the termination of the judicial office. Chapter 5 of the bill refers to the President of the Court. Consistent with constitutional solutions, the bill provides for the president of the court to elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Judicial Council. The bill contains a special provision that speaks of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which constitutes the development of the relevant provisions of the Constitution. Chapter 6 contains provisions on jury judges and does not contain any major changes to the applicable laws. Chapter 7 refers to the disciplinary responsibility of judges and represents another major newspaper that contains the bill in relation to the applicable law. The draft law accurately established disciplinary offences and disciplinary sanctions, as well as the competent authorities for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings and the disciplinary procedure itself. It should be pointed out that they are members of the disciplinary bodies of the judge himself, and that the disciplinary procedure is being initiated on the basis of a proposal from authorised proposings, so that the initiative to initiate the disciplinary procedure can be submitted by any citizen. The two-stage procedure has been secured, so that complaints about the decisions of the disciplinary bodies are decided by the High Judicial Council. If a serious disciplinary infringement is found in the disciplinary procedure, it may also constitute the basis for the initiation of the proceedings for the resolution of judges. The transitional and final provisions prescribed deadlines for selecting judges in accordance with the provisions of the new law and the entry into force of the law. The choice of judges for all courts in the Republic of Serbia is foreseen, for the reason that the draft law governing courts provides for a new organisation of courts, with a completely amended jurisdiction over the applicable law. Judges are required to be elected in accordance with the new law and to take office on 1 January 2010, which is consistent with the start of the new network of courts. It is particularly important to point out that the transitional provisions provide that judges who, according to applicable regulations, have been elected to office in new courts are to elect a high council of the judiciary, not the Assembly, which points out that this is not their first choice in the judicial office. So this is not a re-election but a choice of all judges, given that according to the applicable Law on Regulating Courts, brand new courts are established in relation to the existing ones. At the end of this presentation of the proposal for a Law on Judges, I would add that the same methodology and way of presenting the texts of the laws that I explained in detail in my opening statement regarding the drafting of the bill that was discussed yesterday. He reiterates that the Justice Ministry used a solution from a document called "The Basic Principles for Systemic Law Making", made by the Commission's Working Group on Justice Reform. In particular, I would like to point out that the provisions on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges have almost been fully taken over. Also, all the necessary opinions of the Supreme Court were delivered on two occasions, the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Regional Courts and the Venice Commission. The round tables I spoke of yesterday were organized. On this occasion, I would particularly like to stress that in October 2007, a roundtable organized by the Ministry of Justice and the OSCE mission with the topic - the importance of introducing clear and measurable criteria for choice, promotion, disciplinary responsibility and resolution of judicial function holders in the Republic of Serbia. Representatives of the judiciary, professional associations, law professors, members of international institutions participated in this round table. Decisions issued by representatives of our judiciary, representatives of the country's judiciary in the region, as well as judges from EU countries, have been included in the text of the law. As regards the law on the high council of the judiciary, the Law on the High Council of Justice, adopted in November 2001, has appointed a high council of the judiciary as a special judicial body of the republican rank. The High Council of Justice proposed to the National Assembly the presidents of the courts, judges and public prosecutors, appointed judges as jurors and deputy public prosecutors. This law has suffered more changes than its adoption as a consequence of an amendment to the law governing the position of public prosecutors, i.e. judges. Instead of a judicial body, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia establishes a high council of the judiciary and state-level senior prosecutors, as guarantees of the independence and independence of courts and judges, i.e. public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. In Article 153. The Constitution states that the high council of the judiciary is an independent and independent body that provides and guarantees the independence and independence of courts and judges. The independence and independence of the High Council of the judiciary is seen, above all, in the fact that the High Council of the judiciary has the means of owning the funds in accordance with the law provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget for its work. In addition, seven of the 11 members of the high council of the judiciary are judges with permanent judicial office. The High Council of the judiciary provides and guarantees the independence of courts and judges. This is achieved by a series of provisions of this law, which stipulate that this body elects and resolves judges, decides on the termination of the judicial office, proposes to the National Assembly to elect judges during the first election, proposes the National Assembly elections and the resolution of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the President of the Court of Justice. In particular, provisions relating to the selection of election members of the High Council of the Court of Justice are important. These members are scheduled to be elected by the National Assembly, in the order of candidates who are proposed by the High Council of the judiciary, who are elected by the judges themselves according to the degree and type of courts. This ensures the fastest participation of judges in the election, and according to a procedure that regulates the law in detail. Since the Constitution guarantees that a member of the High Council of the judiciary of election members must be of the court from the territory of the Autonomous Province, the bill provides that judges from the Court of Justice from the territory of the AP shall have a special list of judges from that territory, which these judges and elect. The independence and independence of the High Judicial Council shall be seen in the provisions governing the procedure for the resolution of election members. The initiative to relieve an election member of the board of judges can, in addition to members of the council, be submitted by the President of the Court, and based on the decision of the session of all judges. The Council shall assess the likelihood of reasons for the request for resolution, and after that it shall decide to initiate the procedure. If the procedure determines that there are reasons for the resolution of a member of the council, the High Judicial Council shall submit a proposal to the National Assembly for a resolution on the proposal. By prescribing such a procedure for resolving the contributions of the independence and independence of the original members of the Council and reducing the potential for impact on their work. The bill stipulates that members of the first composition of the high council of the judiciary in the order of judges propose an existing high council of justice, based on the attached opinion of the session of all judges in the Republic of Serbia, and are elected by the National Assembly in accordance with the Constitution. The proposed solution is consistent with the reason why the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution prescribes a relatively short deadline for selecting these members of the Council. At the end of this brief presentation of the Proposal for a Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, I would like to say a few words about the process of making and this legal text. After the adoption of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, a commission for its implementation has been educated. In 2006, the Commission educated a working group to develop the principles I was talking about, which will apply to the construction of judicial laws. In line with the principles drawn up by the said working group, the Commission has educated a working group to draft a working version of the law on the High Council of the judiciary, which has been acted in the same way as with other texts of the judicial laws. This work version of the Justice Ministry has largely accepted and proposed to the government for adoption. I'll point out the fact that members of the task force were judges, prosecutors and lawyers. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in principle and in particular the proposed laws will be adopted, which will create a regulatory framework for the comprehensive organisation of judicial bodies, which, above all, allows the principle of independence of the judiciary, guarantees certain rights, but imposes and responsibilities on judges in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6939	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? No, I don't. ) Out of the president and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS and Miroslav Petkovic, and Zoran Krasic, signed on. I ask the National Assembly’s service to remove whatever is next to the pay phone, which interferes with the speaker and apparently does not fit to stand in the picture broadcast from the session of the National Assembly. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6940	The President-in-Office, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, as the authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, I would venture to say that we are in one specific position, because it is really necessary to bring in a set of judicial laws, it is really necessary to reform the judiciary, which is who it is, unfortunately, but on the other hand, the LDP, as an opposition party, must point to the anomalies of this system and to all the shortcomings proposed by law, which we have tried to correct through the amendment in some way. Again, the problem is the way such important laws are proposed. It is therefore freely concluded that it is not normal for the laws to be proposed by emergency procedure and that the session of parliament is practically artificially delayed to create some kind of space for the submission of serious amendments. This is a set of laws, these are system laws, which in a very serious way are necessary to change what is called the judicial system and we believe that this procedure was necessary to approach in a far more serious way. I will not highlight the positive attributes of these laws, it is absolutely clear that there are, I will not point out the need to reform the judiciary in this way, but I would ask the representatives of the government, as an authorised representative of the LDP, some questions and I would like to hear the answers in which the government and later newly formed authorities in the judiciary think and intend to reform, in accordance with the laws, implement. First of all, I would look back, and I have every right to look back on that, the anomalies that the Constitution carries with it. Of all the parties that have representatives in this House, the LDP alone led an anti-constitutional campaign and I believe that we have the only moral right to point to practically some impossible situations that are conditioned by such a bad constitution. In fact, the question arises who will re-election in the judiciary. The first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors has the extraordinary duty to hold a general selection of judges and deputy public prosecutors on permanent duty and to propose the election of the president of the courts and public prosecutors, i.e. the judge and deputy public prosecutors who are first elected to office. Specific tasks require a particularly high level of legitimacy of these bodies, so that a completely illogical solution is offered in the proposals for a law on the High Council of the judiciary and the Law on the State Council of the Prosecutors, according to which election members of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors are proposing the current High Council of Justice. On the one hand, re-election is required to break up with the current judicial system, and on the other hand, the composition of the council and the larger bodies that should carry out most of the work are proposed by the High Council of Justice, the judicial system institution that wants to break up. Also, the constitution says it is a member of the Supreme Judicial Council acting as president of the Supreme Cassation Court. So, we will according to the anomalies that this Constitution has, once again, have one shredded body, as was the case with the Constitutional Court, because when we formed the Constitutional Court, there was no cassation court that would propose members on the basis of the letter of the Constitution, and so we got a steed Constitutional Court that doesn't have one-third of the judges. Now that's how we're going to get our butts the High Court's advice. Is this how a reform of the judiciary should begin, and is it normal for a judicial reform to begin? Furthermore, according to the letter of the Constitution, the question arises as to how much the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be an independent institution. The legal nature of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the judiciary, according to practice in the countries of developed judicial systems, is that it is some kind of judicial self-government body, i.e. prosecutorial self-government, when it comes to the State Council of Prosecutors. However, we have a case here that, in accordance with the way it was governed by the law, these members are elected by the National Assembly. Could there have been a happier solution, and could it in some way have been respected through these bodies that they represent the authorities of judicial self - government? Yes, it could, but now it's impossible. It is impossible because there is one limiting factor called the Constitution and, unfortunately, it can no longer be fixed. Accordingly, I'd do a two-way dipression in my presentation. I'd go back to the Constitution again. Here, representatives of many parliamentary groups, i.e. parliamentary clubs, laminate over the need to improve the constitution, laminate over the need to incorporate high moral principles in these laws, on which Serbian justice will be based, and these same members of these political parties participated in the constitutional campaign and participated in the adoption of a constitution that is by itself, all experts in constitutional law recognise, a bad one, which is full of anthnonomic legal norms and which, after all, is brought to a referendum theft. It is supreme hypocrisy that we now refer to such a constitution and that what is an anomaly of the proposed laws is lamented in such a way. I would return specifically to the proposed set of laws, and my objection concerns deadlines for the general re-election, and therefore the question to the representatives of the government: how will the appointment of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and re-election of judges be carried out by 1 January 2009? The procedure itself, which determines the Constitution and the procedure itself, which is foreseen in the transitional and final provisions of the proposed laws, gives very short deadlines, and the way in which the Assembly works itself says that it is simply physically impossible to do so in the right way. Yes, it is possible to appoint such a number of judges, it is possible to name the High Council of the judiciary within such short notice, but the question is whether it is possible to do so in a valid manner. A small game of numbers, how many members, how many judges should be re-elected, how many members of the public prosecutor's office should be chosen, what is the procedure for the election of the High Council of Justice and how long it takes. We will see that it is absolutely impossible in a valid way to do so by 1 January 2009. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have used 10 minutes as an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group and will retain the right to use the second part of the time provided for in the final word when the discussion of the proposed set of laws is concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6941	The word comes from MP Djordje Milicevic, the authorised representative of the SPS-Unique Serbia, and then from then on, MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6942	The Honorable Madam Chairman, a respected presidency, respected representatives of the ministry, respected ministers, Mrs Malovic, it is true that you have seen the degree of democratisation in society above all at the reached level of independence of the judicial authority. Of course, one of the most important reforms implemented today in Serbia is judicial reform. The adoption of a set of proposed laws should, above all, lead to increased judicial efficiency, the urgency of the work of judicial authorities, the specialisation of courts and better access to justice. That's what we talked about during yesterday's debate. This is not only a constitutional obligation but an obligation relating to the overall reform of the judiciary. It is therefore foreseen that a set of seven proposed laws should enter into force from 1 January 2010. It is clear that their application will lead to the biggest changes in Serbia's judicial system since 1946. The SPS-Single Serbia Parliament Club, as we said during yesterday's debate, will be supported by a set of proposed judicial laws, because we want to support and believe in the final goal that has been said over the past few months by representatives of the ministry - that we will allow citizens to have uninterrupted access to the court in the way they have done in the previous time period, that judges will not be left without their functions even though there is a reduction in the number, if it is a decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because that is what both the law and the Constitution guarantee. It is also said that, among other things, the minister as a future member of the council and that the seats in the judicial system will not be just for the unconscious and unprofessional, which we fully support. Therefore, the main objective of the proposed legal solutions is to establish the efficiency of the judiciary, and new institutions such as the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutor's Office should be a guarantee of judicial independence, i.e. public prosecutorial independence. These institutions should provide one real basis for further building a democratic society. On the other hand, a set of proposed legal solutions is an announcement of the establishment of high standards for judges and prosecutors, possible resolution, working conditions and the way they are elected. The proposal for a law on judges provides for their general choice. So the election of judges will no longer be in parliament's jurisdiction, but will be done by the High Council of the judiciary, which is a guarantee of judicial independence. The High Council of the judiciary will propose to parliament the choice of judges only if they are elected for the first time. The representatives of the Resort Ministry could be heard that the draft law respects international standards in this area, especially those concerning, as far as we can remember, the status of judges, their independence, independence, the right to appointment and resolution. This bill first introduces the responsibility of judges. The independence and independence of the High Council of the judiciary is seen as being available independently by the High Council of the judiciary, which in the Republic of Serbia's budget provides for its smooth work. It is also foreseen in the draft law that since 2011 the decision on the financing of the judiciary will be, as far as we understand, exclusively on the Supreme Council of the judiciary. So far, it's been the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. The High Council of the judiciary, which will decide on the number of judges and who will make the general choice, is a body consisting of 11 members. Of them 11 seven is a judge. We consider it very good, because we believe that judges are capable of choosing the best in their ranks. Given that the legislative proposals that we are having today have led to the most controversy in the public, we believe that it is necessary that during the debate, from the representatives of the resolution ministry, we get further explanations, additional answers to issues that are mainly imposed and passed through the public -- is the general choice of judges necessary and inescapable at the moment when it comes to judicial reform; is it well assessed the moment when a general choice will be made, in terms of whether a good analysis of the situation in which the judiciary is presently located in Serbia; what are the criteria for the general choice of judges and whether the proposed laws follow the judicial capacity and possibilities? Indeed, we believe that the provision of the Law on Judges should be amended, which provides that any person can submit the motion for the resolution of judges, because we believe that this creates conditions for a permanent and permanent exercise of pressure on judges. As far as the Law on the High Council of the judiciary is concerned, perhaps you should consider this direction to complement the provisions of this bill, in a work relating to the selection of members of that body from the ranks of judges, in order to say equal representation of all regions. It may be necessary to establish a territorial principle by educating four constituencies in the seat of the appeals courts, each of which would directly declare its proposal as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. So, once again in the end, I want to repeat that the SPS-Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed set of judicial laws because we support that ultimate goal that we all want to believe in. The proposed amendments, which we have proposed in agreement with the representatives of the Resolute Ministry, we want to improve the proposed set of legislative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6943	The word has a Member of Parliament Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. He gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1) he considers that he is a injured member of 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6944	I report on the basis of Article 136 - meaning constitutional basis and the reasons for the adoption of this law. Madam Minister, a scandalous mistake like this, indeed, about the reasons for law-making should not have been stolen from you. It is neither legal nor technical, but it is the date you are calling on -- when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a new constitution. It says here that the National Assembly brought the Constitution on November 10th, which is simply not true, and ultimately it is offensive for all of us who tried to make it a Mitrovica Constitution and bring it to 8th of November 2006. It stands, therefore, in the decision to declare a new constitution, when the Assembly did so in the House of the National Assembly in Nikola Pasic Square. It's really incomprehensible that someone isn't paying attention, even if it's a dactylograph and someone who's been entrusted with that technical part of the job. Now we can get into why these reasons for law-making are second, that is, why the laws are now in front of the Assembly, but I ask you at least to respect it - it is not only symbolic, but it should show, as we are now learning from the constitutional mistakes of the Serbian constitutional founders, from the first Sretenjski Constitution, and later what the Broz communists did, therefore, each constitution has its own date and has a day when it was declared in the National Assembly. Please continue to pay attention to these things that are not minor, but are really essential and should affect all those who have to, and representatives are state authorities, beginning with the President of the Republic, through the Government and the National Assembly, to respect every letter of the Constitution. How proud of it, because it was the widest possible consensus of all political parties, to bring the Mitrovica Constitution in 2006, we unfortunately face this today in Serbia -- only two years after its adoption, have its flagrant violation. This is due first to the fact that this is all happening and that the authorities of the state government are in the right sense denying our territories of the southern Serbian province, and then stealing the parliamentary mandates and destroying the entire system of all the branches of government in our country. She noticed well yesterday and colleague Pop-Lazic - that's why our whole society is in crisis. What else do we expect? Because when we got this reprimanded or as some of us have a more solemn edition of this constitution, we thought we'd be proud of each of his points. But unfortunately, this is not the case today, because we live in Serbia where the highest legal act is not respected. It is Mitrovican and was brought here on 8 November 2006, not as it stands here in the light of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6945	The Constitution was declared on 8 November, Article 206. The constitution is said to enter into force on the day of its declaration, so that the Constitution is declared on 8 November and should stand in the documents, because that is the case in Article 206. The Constitution. Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6946	I thank Miss Jovanovic for the suggestion. Let me explain what I was thinking. I certainly know that the Constitution was passed on November 8th, was published in the Official Messenger on November 10th, and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution was passed on November 10th. In the future, I won't have such mistakes stolen from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6947	The word is issued by MP Miroslav Petkovic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, followed by MP Zoran Krasic. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6948	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, as you said in your opening statement, today we are discussing the law on judges and the law on the high council of the judiciary, of which there is indeed much to be said. The current Law on Judges was adopted in 2001 and the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 8 November 2006 created obligations and prescribed deadlines for the harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, a constitutional obligation has been made to pass this law on judges. I hope that some of the newspapers, which you have provided for in this law, as well as some of the solutions that have been expelled from it, will produce good results, in order first of all to comply with the constitutional provision that judges in performing their judicial functions are independent and that they are subject only to the Constitution and the law. In the proposed law of the newspaper, which contains this text in relation to the applicable ones, are primarily directed provisions on the evaluation of the work of judges, the disciplinary responsibility of judges, as well as provisions on the termination of duties and the rights of judges elected or appointed under earlier laws. Also, the proposed text of the law shows that the large personal council is being abolished, given that its powers now go to the High Council of the judiciary, as well as the Supervisory Board, whose existence in practice, or in theory, has brought into question the legal principle of judicial independence. You said there was plenty of time for everyone interested to get acquainted with the proposed text of the law. Let me remind you that, first of all, there have been some changes in the transitional and final provisions and therefore you have objections from the Venice Commission, which you often call upon, but you didn't mention it today. First of all, this applies to a member of the 100th proposed law. The decision on the number of judges and judges of the jury shall take high advice from the judiciary, with the prior consent of the justice minister being obtained. I think that this member is contrary to Article 10(2) of this law, given that according to the Bill on the Council of Justice, the Minister of Justice, or you will be a member of the High Council of the judiciary, so I think it is good to clarify it, we cannot say that there is a conflict of interest, but it can happen that it violates the declared independence of the High Council of the Judiciary, as set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of the bill on high-level judicial advice, I must say, this law contains a lot of inaccuracies and a lot of inaccuracies. Unlike yesterday's law, which we were talking about, we made it clear that it was practically impossible to improve them with amendments. I think in the law of high court council, we can make some moves. We are from the DSS, based on the first reading of the Proposal for a High Council of the judiciary, which has 61 members, have seen objections to 41 members. We have even come to the conclusion that two new members can be proposed in this text of the law. However, I think the right measure that we tried to intervene on 16 amendments, and I'm sure you'll accept some of them, because they're really meaningful and really focused on correcting the proposed text of the law, so we'll try to explain it to you in the discussion of the details. Let me tell you one more time, I'm sure you'll accept many of them. According to the proposal, the composition of the council consists of 11 members. That's where I want to start at the beginning to point out one of my doubts. Namely, in Article 6 of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Council is in place. I think it's in direct contrast to Article 2 of this law, because it's practically not understood in this way that the High Council of the Judiciary is an independent and independent body. The President of the Council cannot also be the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because he manages the work, and on the other hand - is a tip, so I don't think it's the happiest solution. What is incorrect in this bill is that, practically in Article 11, there may be a conflict of interest, as an election member from the judge's office can be freed. According to us, I think he should be released from performing his judicial function, because he will come into certain situations that a member of the council, since the High Council of the judiciary is considering questions about the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the judges, is in a position, this is a possible situation, to discuss itself. What is inaccurate is in Article 13, where in the first indent, he says the Council chooses and relieves judges. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Council only elects judges to perform judicial functions permanently, while the National Assembly is competent to carry out the first choice in the judge's office. That's why I think we should leave this to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the 2nd indent fully includes what you wanted to say in the first part -- that the advice decides on the termination of the judicial function; another amendment, which I think is very easy to accept. What is provided for in Article 14. - that's the way the council works. I don't think that's ever been seen before. In Section 1, he says, "The council's sessions are not public." I really haven't had a chance to read anywhere yet. I think this formula is completely upside down, scandalous. Then we get the impression that the Council is some secret organization that discusses some secret and dark things in some closed rooms. I think it's a much better solution that in certain situations the Council may decide to close its session to the public. I don't know how you're going to respect the provisions of the Law that regulates free access to information of public importance, so this really doesn't stand for the Rules of Procedure of the House of Residents, let alone the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. The public is merely declared that the Council will submit annual reports on its work to the National Assembly. I am sure that Mr. Bosko Ristic, if he is chairman of the Justice Committee in the next year, will have the opportunity to submit a report to the National Assembly. What is unnecessary in this law to stand is in this part of the running and proposing, as it says: "The decision to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates for election council members shall be made by the President of the Council". This is where you get into the National Assembly's jurisdiction again. The election of council members is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, we think this decision should be made by the President of the National Assembly. Because I'm going to remind you that the Council is not the only proposing member, it's also a law chamber and law school. What, in addition to these inaccuracies and indecisiveness, is quite obnoxious, and even, I will let myself say, illiterately, but I don't blame it on you, but for people who obviously didn't see it the right way, and I believe that the answer to this question is that all MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who is the oldest law school in the Republic of Serbia. According to this article, the proposal gives the oldest law school in the Republic of Serbia. I think the unquestionable fact is that the oldest law school is a Belgrade university. Why didn't the promoter want to write it unless there's a chance to make it nicer and older, so we can declare him older than the Belgrade Law School. But I'm sure this amendment 10 DSS will also be accepted. What is unconstitutional in this law is, in Article 22, where it says - the representation of courts, so it is now listed that the selection of members of the council from the order of judges is chosen from the following courts: the Supreme Court of Cassation, Court of Appeals, etc. But it stands - one of the courts from the territory of the autonomous province. I just want to remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly states that Serbia has two autonomous provinces. Obviously this is not a random mistake, it's not a technical mistake, I think this is how someone wanted to send a clear political message, I think this is inadmissible and must be changed in the bill. In the case of conditions for running, a candidate for an election member of the board of judges may be any judge in the Republic of Serbia who has served as judge for at least seven years. Also, an unconstitutional provision, since the Constitution does not provide anywhere for a time limit for a judge to perform his duties during a certain period in order to be able to run for the high council of the judiciary. As a borderline of passive voting law, the constitution has set the continuity of the judicial function, not the length of the exercise of this duty. Also, in Article 2, a candidate for an electoral member of the Board of Criminal Courts and a senior criminal court may be any judge of these courts who, after a legal trial, has at least six years of working experience in the legal profession. I think you've demoted judges in this way, given that you're giving greater rights and advantages to people who have worked in the legal profession for six years than those who have been in judicial office for seven years. Also, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 23, where I think one position can be added without any difficulty, where we predict that judges should be given the opportunity to run with a number of signatures collected. I think the judges should run for their colleagues, the ones they deserve, who they think should do this job in a high-quality and honorable way and don't need to be held back in that way. What is unnecessary in this law, the judge votes only for the candidate on the list of candidates of the kind, or the court in which he performs his judicial office. I think there's a certain inequality here, that the judges of the appeals courts and judges of the basic courts are being placed in an unequal position. They have to get a lot more votes than it is with the judges of appeals courts. In Article 35, the proposal for a candidate in the line of judges -- I also find a provision inadmissible, as it says -- the council makes a decision on the proposal of a candidate. I will remind you again that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses by Constitution members of the High Council of the judiciary, which means that it has a real choice. If a proposal of six candidates and a National Assembly elects six candidates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, it is not a choice, it is a appointment. I think the constitutional jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia is being destroyed in the most harsh way. We do not give ourselves and we will defend the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by asking that this proposal be amended, not by one candidate but by three candidates, and that we are indeed choosing, not only to appoint the proposed candidates. The council proposes more candidates in the event that several judges on one election list get about the same number of votes. I really can't understand what it means -- about equal to the largest number, it's even hard to repeat until it's read. What number is that? Also, what is unclear, why did the promoter not also arrange the selection process for the remaining members of the council, candidates from the line of lawyers and professors, and why is this procedure left at will, since the National Assembly also chooses these members? I think it could have been predicted by this law, too. In the process of resolution, we also have certain objections. We think it is inadmissible and that it is mandatory to provide that a member of the council for which the resolution procedure is initiated does not have the right to vote when deciding to initiate the procedure. I don't even think he has the right to count himself as a quorum because a member of the council can re-emerge, discuss certain objections or make certain explanations. What I think is essential, if I understand it well, and I think the DSS MPs have studied this bill well, is provided for in Article 52 - election members of the first composition of the board of judges, where paragraph 5 says - the high council of the judiciary within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law proposes to the National Assembly one or more candidates for each election member. If such a provision of the proposed law passes, I think we will have a practical complete control of the executive authority in selecting members of the first composition of the High Council of Justice. I think that, in accordance with the provisions of the members of this law, it could be regulated in a much more precise way than is predicted that the body that now exists elects members for the high council of the judiciary that has yet to function. I think that in this way, the legitimacy of the members of the High Council of Judges and that legitimacy would be significantly greater if they had been chosen as provided for in other provisions of this law. That's why, Madam Minister, you've heard the remarks of the DSS MPs, you'll hear them in principle debate. According to our estimates, we're going to have 10 days of amendments, maybe a little longer, but we're going to try to pack it all up in 10 days to get these important laws passed as soon as possible. You have the opportunity to accept the amendments and thus correct the proposed legal text. Otherwise, as for the possibility of DSS MPs voting for this bill, you must know that this is absolutely impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6949	National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6950	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we were just witnessing a replica by the minister to the Vice-President of Ms. Jovanovic's Assembly, in which she tried to prove that she knew which day the constitution was passed, but I think it is a completely irrelevant item in this whole story. We heard from all those who are here today on behalf of their parliamentary groups trying to say that these bill proposals are not in part in accordance with the Constitution, or that the Constitution is in some way for these bill proposals, as well as for those we talked about yesterday, and we heard the same thing from the minister, alone at some point in the brakes to pass these laws. Unfortunately, you've all brought this constitution together, and you from the DSS, and the SS. We all know that it was written in three days by people designated by Tadic, Nikolic and Kostunica. We warned you there was no public debate about the Constitution. We warned you that this constitution will not be a good solution for Serbia and that this constitution will not be a framework through which Serbia will be able to change, what it needs most, and also to change the judiciary. It is completely inappropriate for me to hear from here that the Constitution is now the one that does not allow certain things or that the Constitution is in some way a distraction. Of course the Constitution is a distraction, the Constitution is bad, the Constitution is brought in a radical way and has nadal solutions. I'm afraid the real reform of the judiciary with this constitution is impossible to carry out. Unfortunately, and it may not be yours, but the DS has a great responsibility, too, but I repeat, you wrote together with Nikolic and Kostunica this constitution for three or four days and tried to do everything the opposite of what should be. You tried to keep the situation in Serbia as it is. It is now impossible to draw out any reforms, since the legal framework, i.e. the boredom of this Constitution, makes it impossible for you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6951	People's MP, you didn't say which member. The MP insists that it is Article 104 that he is injured. Minister Snezana Malovic did not have a replica, she has the right to report in the course of the debate as a proposing representative and has given an explanation of the date she warned about, with the right, the vice-president of the National Assembly, because the explanation is unclear as to what November 10th refers. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was declared on 8 November. Article 206 says it takes effect on the day of its declaration. The Law on the Implementation of the Constitution was published in the Official Journal on 10 November and that was the information exchanged between the vice-president of the Natasa Jovanovic National Assembly and Minister Snezana Malovic. I ask you to pay attention to the right to talk about the violation of Article 104 because there is no breach of Article 104. Participants in the debate respectfully treated the National Assembly. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6952	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I had an obligation to go out for a pay phone and draw your attention to what my predecessor said. It just seemed like it was not sufficiently articulated, but I just don't think it's clear enough. I called on the Rules of Procedure and the dignity of the National Assembly because, as I understood it, and I think my colleagues from the SRS group understood, the LDP here called us through Mr Maras to disrespect the Constitution. The constitution, whatever it is, must be respected. I understand that you support the draft laws of the Minister of Justice, so you are reportedly complaining that the Constitution does not allow for quite the kind of change the government would want, but whatever the constitution is, the people have let him down. We've just declared him here after the referendum and he's binding us all, until we change something in him, and he's prescribed how it should be changed. So when someone has such a political power here in parliament that they can change it, let them approach its change. But, please, as much as I disagreed with these proposals of the Justice Minister, and the SRS parliamentary group has submitted many amendments to which it wanted to prevent it from being unconstitutional, or to comply with the draft laws with the Constitution, I had to come out to simply draw attention to you not to allow anyone, especially the MPs, to call on them not to respect the Constitution. Of course, I called for the dignity of the National Assembly, believing that we must defend it first, and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6953	National MP Miroslav Petkovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6954	Dear Presidency, not according to the Rules of Procedure, this is a small replica of counterpart Marashu, who is also a lawyer. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the highest legal act in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6955	People's MP, if you're looking for a right to a replica, you have to have a basis for replication. National MP Slobodan Maras did not mention your parliamentary group, he mentioned the president of your parliamentary group, but not in an offensive tone. The right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6956	All right, I'll take the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6957	You get a word in the Rules of Procedure. You are referring to members 225 and 226. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6958	Okay, we're changing. We're going to Rules of Procedure, 225, 226. I ask the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to explain to the MPs that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia did not bring either Kostunica, Tadic, or Nikolic, but, as it says here, Serbian citizens bring the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let's make that clear to everyone. The citizens have come to their senses. The vast majority of MPs voted in favour of this constitution, those who did not do so have the right to such an attitude, but cannot call for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to be violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6959	In response to MP Slobodan Marash, I told him when the constitution was declared on November 8th. Article 206 sets out that the date of the declaration is effective, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution was subsequently adopted and was published on 10 November. The Constitution cannot be declared if it has not passed or confirmed in a referendum before. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6960	Someone obviously tried to twist what I said a little bit. So, since the constitution was passed, the LDP has not called for a single violation of the Constitution, we have even repeatedly turned our attention to those who have brought it breaking the Constitution. It was flagrantly broken, and when an oil-gas agreement was reached, especially the items found there, we have repeatedly noted. The citizens have brought the Constitution. We all remember that we submitted evidence, footage of the vote going through in the referendum. He went by force. That's not the point. As it's brought in, it's going to last, and it's going to have these effects. His only value is that you managed to call him Mitrovdanski, to remain in history remembered as the Mitrovica Constitution. The biggest problem is the way he was brought in, who arranged for him, how many days, as it was written. Was there a public debate? There was no public debate. You're making a constitution that should resolve the issues of the citizens of this country, the constitution that was supposed to reform this state, and you've brought the Constitution that was supposed to keep the state as it is. You're all responsible for that. The LDP has never called for a violation of the constitution, but we have warned that it is being violated by the ruling majority or by some representatives of the ruling majority once. There was no intention of calling for such a thing, I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that other than the day it was declared, the one who brought it is much more important the way it was brought in, what is in it, and that it is causing problems for this country to be reformed in a way that is necessary, primarily because of the citizens of this country. Article 101, since Mrs. Pop-Lazic mentioned me, that it was quite unarticulated whether I said it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6961	I ask the MPs when they report for the word to make it clear whether they want to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure or to seek the right to replication, because for the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 100, I have an obligation to give my word, and giving the right to the replica is the discretionary right of the chairman. According to the Rules of Procedure, you can get the right to the replica, and you don't have to. National MP Zoran Ostojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6962	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, I advertise the violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because it could be concluded in the statements of a colleague and colleague that the LDP advocates breaking the Constitution and disrespecting the Constitution. It's just not true. A colleague, Marash, just said who wrote the Constitution, not who brought it. It was written by Mr Nikolic on behalf of the then unique SRS, with the support of the president who is abroad, Mr Tadic, Mr Kostunica, Dinkic and all parties except LDP participated in the secret writing of the constitution. There was no public debate. Who brought it? Well, the citizens are watching us, they know well whether they went to that referendum that lasted two days. It's never been such a referendum before. We can argue here whether or not the citizens voted him or not, in any case we think that they did not or are indisputable is that they did not vote him in Vojvodina and we just said that this constitution, which is how you all brought together, except us, or wrote him, does not allow, unfortunately, to reform the judiciary more deeply. We regret it. We support most of these laws, not the first one. And if we were to call for disrespect of the Constitution, it's simply not true and don't deceive the people who are watching us. On the contrary, although we are against this Constitution, we respect it until it is applied, We will do all things to be changed. How do we respect him? Well, that gas-oil deal with the Russians you voted here, and that's the very majority that wrote that constitution, I'm saying you didn't bring it, we're contesting in the Constitutional Court. Isn't that proof that we respect this Constitution? We filed a lawsuit against that agreement with the Constitutional Court. I guess that's crown proof that we respect the Constitution, even though we disagree with it. Therefore, let us not deceive the citizens. The constitution is bad, and that's why the laws can't be better. Who's to blame for the Constitution? Those who wrote it and the way they brought it. Let's move on. We'll change it anyway. Well, the European Commission report says the Constitution is wrong. We will have to change it when we become a candidate for EU membership. I guess that makes sense to everyone. Okay, you messed up that constitution all together for some of your internal reasons. We got a constitution that replaced Milosevic and that's the only value that's new, and we didn't want a new one, we wanted a better one. We finished that story about the Constitution. Let's go back to these laws. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6963	National MP, there is no violation of Article 104, and I will ask you not to take any obligations under the authority of the chairman, regardless of your kind treatment for each other. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept that everyone who holds the presidency of this assembly is somewhat allowing individual MPs who do not comply with the dignity of the National Assembly. But to allow such a harsh attack on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to accuse the first vast majority of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, after one LDP MP that she had brought the constitution, on the other hand, that she had smanded it, that those who had organised the referendum had stolen the results of the referendum, that the Constitution had been brutally attacked by someone claiming that he had not been brought into Vojvodina, you did not say that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia had not been brought into Pristina on that day, that the representatives of these political structures were saying that KIM should be granted independence, and that they were saying that they would respect the Constitution until they had changed it and that you were not responding at all to it, Madam President, it is really wrong. We didn't even bring the Constitution here in the Assembly. We only did the will of the citizens expressed in the referendum. Whoever wants to change the essentials of this constitution must organise a referendum. Whoever wants to change certain provisions of that constitution must provide at least a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. The easiest thing to do is to attack and say - I didn't participate in the constitution. It would be a shame if I hadn't taken part in the adoption of a Serbian constitution. So either you defend the dignity of the National Assembly, Your Honor, or you leave it to someone else to hold a session of the National Assembly, someone who feels no guilt when they call it that he has smudged the Constitution, that he has stolen it. It seems to me that sometimes you or you have a sense of guilt, so you miss out on ensuring the dignity of the National Assembly, or you have an agreement with some MPs that they are allowed to do whatever they want, at least as much as it affects the atmosphere in the Assembly and the atmosphere in Serbia. I say to the MPs who insult the dignity of the National Assembly, you have a good deal with television not to hear that thump. The citizens of Serbia do not know what you are doing now, but I recommend one thing as older than you: when you are in the living mud, stand still. Because every movement causes you to sink deeper and deeper. (SRS Emissaries pounding on benches)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6965	National MP, all I can do and to what my Rules of Procedure obliges me to explain whether or not there is any or no harm to a member of the Rules of Procedure to which the MP has been called. I cannot comment on the content of the presentation of any of the MPs. All I have to do is intervene if the MPs are clearly verbally violating Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. You're right. During your presentation, I failed to respect Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to take care of order in the hall during the session of the National Assembly, because a number of MPs, by hitting on the inventory of the National Assembly, produce sounds with intent to prevent the speaker from making his presentation at the pay phone. So any MP who calls for me to violate Article 27, failing to take care of the order during the National Assembly session, will be right. I can't go into any exposure, but I know what's wrong, what's wrong, what's done, what's not done. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6966	Mrs. Komic, when I went out to say that there had been some injury to the Rules of Procedure, I usually avoided saying that it was Article 104, rather than being a member of 27, and sometimes I may have been a little bit sharp towards you and Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I will call on Article 27, but I am fully aware that you have not contributed to this and that you are not so guilty, because in a debate on whether the Constitution provides opportunities for the adoption of a quality law, so now as it seems, of course, you can hear those words and those who attack the Constitution and those who defend the Constitution. But it's so degutant, it's disgusting, it's disgusting when someone who's running the Constitution shows up as a defense attorney. Article 102. The constitution is clear, and then the one who stole the mandates appears and he protects the Constitution. That's quite a violation of elementary dignity in this building. Or, say, can anyone imagine if a Smoki could take an oath as President of the Republic or Prime Minister, and then after 15 days, he'd say, "I swear an oath, what do I care about the oath?" Last time I read to you, there was an oath in the church. A man swears. How many do you swear? What his personal interest is. You can see from the DS. Don't plant pumpkins with those who can break the oath. He'll cheat on you, too. Mrs. Comic, I think it's about time, you seemed to me at the time you were also vice president of the National Assembly, do you remember in 2001 that the Administrative Board made some decision that some who stole some money or illegally received some money, did a procedure have been initiated to get them back? Here is a Mr. Zoran Nikolic, and another gentleman who had an apartment and used the services of coming and going to the Assembly and was in Belgrade. Let's stop this crime at the National Assembly. How can you interpret that someone defends the Constitution, and he violated everything possible. First in violation of the Constitution, Article 102. He'll give you back your mandates. He'll never mention you again. That's the whole story. It's constitutional behavior. They don't belong to me. I'm returning the mandates. Goodbye. You accept that, wide field. Let's move on. But no. Again, I would like to draw your attention that this is an elaborate project of destroying the state and orchestrating the murder of Vojislav Seselj. Remember. Repeat. Remember what I said. Don't be complicit with those who break oaths, they don't honor oaths. They are called upon to defend the Constitution, as soon as it comes out, in violation of the Constitution, because it does not belong here. "Smoky" is a movie place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6967	People's Messenger, there is no likeness of the Messenger of the People's Assembly to which you have called. The explanation I am obliged to give you is to refer you to a procedure that determines whether the Constitution, the procedure which determines who determines who violates the Constitution, as well as the procedure for changing the Constitution. I can't go into exposure to either of you or anyone else in any way, or by answering the questions you asked me. If and when I take a word, I'll give you an answer to the questions asked. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6968	Unlike some who entered the intimate feelings of the promoter's representative, Mrs Malovic, I am so aware, I am not as cocky as some have cracked up, so they cannot come together, I'm just going to talk about the Prologus of the Law and the things concerning the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. There are no intimate feelings in politics, but a man knows nothing in life, so he comes out and attacks you for intimate feelings, which you said you were trying to apply the obligations you have under constitutional law. What is it about these two draft laws? I have to tell you that certain solutions are legally and legally acceptable, but it's really a problem that the concept that's being pushed here right now and it's being promoted is bad. This concept that you're pushing, the government and these NGOs, and those associations you've worked with, practically brings our judiciary into a state of total blockade, regardless of these deadlines you wrote here. Something needs 2009, something in 2010, and let's say some deadline on January 1st 2010. This puts the judiciary in a state of lockdown, and that can't happen. Some solutions aren't so bad, but the concept is wrong. Let's point to something that had just been discussed here. There is probably a large dose of ignorance, so very often someone can rightly suspect that the constitutional framework is not good for a quality law. It should be somewhat accepted as one of the reasons. However, the SRS believes that the existing constitutional framework allows the adoption of very good laws -- two laws are at stake, one concerns judges, and the other to the High Council of the judiciary -- or to be more precise, the existing constitution and provisions do not mind making a more quality law. That's what I had to tell you at first, to realize that you had to move on and that you had to look for the most pathetic solutions. Yesterday I explained to you how manipulation was, that much more talk is being made about whether there will be a municipal court or a basic court in Vlasotinc, Vranjska Banja and here and there, rather than a proper debate on the concept of court arrangements. Now you've done something similar. In those provisions on the choice of judges, as election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, you literally took some of the solutions that existed for the selection of members of the Working Council of theOUR. Young people don't know that, according to Cardell's concept of the OUR work organisation, if you choose a working council, this is exactly the form of plebiscite, a referendum, or, to be precise, a choice. The electoral commission, the polling post, all workers working in the company have an election right, can vote, the proposing system, allegedly running, etc., counting the results, the commission tells the story, announced the results, the newly elected expensive ones, set up a constitutive session of the working council and the working council works. So, the whole Cardell concept. Why did you do it? You did so to allegedly show the world that judges in the Republic of Serbia choose their representatives in the highest judicial authority, which should provide and guarantee, not to use these bombing statements that mean nothing to viewers, normal functioning and legal work of judges. That's where you see that prank. You can't get out of that prank. We've submitted a few amendments to that. I have no intention of talking about our amendments in principle, because every MP has a duty, so he will explain in the best possible way why an amendment has been filed and what needs to be changed. The other big problem is, and I need to draw attention to you, I am going back to the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia -- the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reflects the state continuity of the Republic of Serbia. Why? He was brought in by a procedure prescribed by the 1990 Constitution, and that's good, that's the only way to do it. It reflects the continuity of statehood, power and all that springs and what is the characteristic of a state. I must tell you that the expression of that continuity is also a judge, because it belongs to that judicial branch of power. It also guaranteed its continuity under the former Constitution, guaranteeing its continued performance under the new Constitution. That's where you made a mistake in the bill -- sustainability, as a concept, should have been thrown out, to remain just -- perseverance. That's what's been passed on. If that hadn't been transmitted, then there would have been a discontinuity speech. Let go of these stories of continuity and discontinuity. He's not the one shaking his head, who's all over his political being based on discontinuity. This is about the state. Continuity exists. The continuity of the judge's office was, it continued. He can't break up. The third, perhaps the most important argument in all of this, is - the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia respects and recognises acquired rights. You can't get the right to abolish and say - a new constitution has been passed, under the new constitution needs some law, you haven't fulfilled some criteria under that law. What about acquired rights? Let me explain to you what this is about. One dimension of the judge is to perform a judicial function and something called adhesion powers, and another is the fact that man is in a working relationship. In time, I draw your attention, in front of our courts and in front of the European Court of Human Rights, this concept that you plan in the transitional and final provisions of almost all these laws, you say - is not re-election. It is re-election. Call it whatever you want. Re-election. The choice, so if that one doesn't pass, it doesn't pass. So you have acquired rights. The acquired rights must not be violated. To remind you, someone violated the pensioner's rights in one part, someone violated the rights of the judge for drug crimes, so everyone in the court got that. The Ministry of Justice cannot propose a law denying the principles applied by courts, principles stemming from the Constitution and the law. That's the biggest problem. It's no problem. Dissolve the judge, when you make these organs, resolve the particular judge, N.N. The judge doesn't do it right, he's not worthy, he doesn't reach the norm, he doesn't respect the views of court practice, and that's why his judgments are dropping, etc. You can do all that. That may be the reason for the resolution. But don't do it by being arrogant about telling a judge -- you, sir, didn't go to this contest for a choice. That's what you're gonna tell people at 15, 16, 20, 25 years of work. The question is, what has this man been doing for 15 years? Has he made all the false decisions for 15 years? Let me remind you, in the Justice Committee, a few years ago, we had such a situation that the Great personal council suggested a judge's resolution, and when you take the chart and you check out all his work results for 2-3 years, I don't know how much we watched, Mr. Jojic knows better, we saw that he was more successful than 90% of the judges in that court. Then we asked the question -- why don't you solve these others, but you're looking for this one? You know, this kind of reminds me of this autonomial-separatistic mind-blowing, which says "the point of robbery" and "where is our money". That's what Canak always pulls out and says, "people, in translation it means, I'd better steal you from Novi Sad than those from Belgrade, why money to go to Belgrade alone, let small ones come to us in Novi Sad as well." What do you do with that money in principle? The same thing as in Belgrade, except he wasn't Milosevic, he'll be Canak. That's the big ideological difference. Like that big difference - who's big and who's a little thief. It depends on how many cash registers, not on the height of the thief, whether it's two meters or a half feet. That's the story. This is the same for you, if it's a choice in the National Assembly, it's politicized, if it's at the high council of the judiciary, then it'll be within the profession. What's it worth when you're in the first session to put in people no one's gonna be sure they even meet the conditions to be judges? They recognize the right of the judge in the first election. In this transitional period, you recognise their status and claim the right of the judge and no one else, because everyone has to go to the competition. Where, on what grounds do you base that right? Why are you disciplining? You put discrimination into the law to block the judiciary. Everything you do is in the function of blocking the judiciary. Similar solutions were made by these around us, and they suffered a disaster. Anything that was a little bit understood in the judiciary, left the courts, some were expelled, that's what I have to tell you. Now we have these cable TVs, now we can watch Macedonia, and the MH Federation, and Croatia, have open shows, discuss what happened, how it happened. Every time a murder happens, it lures attention, and then -- what about our judiciary, and then the story opens up and says, "We made a mistake, Tudjman did this, he did this, destroyed, destroyed." And they say they're better lawyers in law than they are in court. You have some experience. It's one process. We can't be here alone. In this area here, you call it the Western Balkans, but in the territory of the former SFRY all processes are interlinked. Something first goes to Slovenia, so it moves to Croatia, and after a few months, it becomes current in Serbia. You now turn on these foreign televisions and know exactly the next five months of what will be done in Serbia, about, on the basis of what will be the agenda of the National Assembly. Intelligence means that a man should, based on his previous experience, manage to make no mistake. Why would they make mistakes now? An error was made in 2002. You know that a mistake has been made, and here, for six years, you failed to correct it, you failed to establish what was given as an idea in 2002. We still have the 91st Law of Courts on jurisdiction and some other solutions. You said, the National Assembly - politicized, let's go to professionals. And there it will be politicised, and even worse it will be politicised there, as Jojic says. During the first election, feel free not to chase corruption around fleas, go to the high council of the judiciary, and there you will catch anyone who is going to corruption. It's not just that question now if someone's going to pass NN for the judge, but whether an interested group, whose exponent, is in that court, is going to pass. I'm telling you, I'm now running some disputes against these thieves and I'm coming across a wall of silence in court. Yesterday I spoke, the judge returns the lawsuit and says, "edit the petition motion." He's been working as a judge for 30 years, and he doesn't know anything or he can't know by order. You don't solve these problems here. I don't want to talk about transitional and final provisions, because we have a lot of amendments here, where we're going to be very specific about criticizing some solutions. Of course, we will criticise many other things that we believe will not be in the function of improvement. Here, without intending to single out a person, just to let you know, there is Mrs. Vojka Kukolj and Mr. Zoran Babic, from the territory of the Old Town municipality. They have a problem with the court and the Old Town municipality. In the Old Town municipality, it's probably 12-13 years, I don't know, maybe Milena knows that, the president of the municipality is a Mrs. Mirjana Bozidarevic, Mira-Goddarka, as they call her artistically. The tenants of one building can't solve the problem for 16 years. They've been waiting 16 years for a first-degree verdict. In another procedure, they succeeded, and 13 times there was a court execution that was delayed. This Mr. Babic, with four children and a woman, lives in a 18-square-square cobage apartment, and his toilet is in the hallway of a residential building. That problem can't be solved in court for 16 years. A very specific example. Furthermore, doesn't it seem a little strange to you that the choice of the judiciary council is decided by persons who have criminal charges or who need status, to act, allegedly, of some MP, in order not to go into criminal proceedings. That would be necessary. Would that be normal? I don't understand it at all. How can we hold moral sermons to the high council of the judiciary, and here in one part we have immorality, unconstitutional state, illegal state, all the worst there is, even from a man who swears. Cross him like he's become a Roman Catholic. Cross yourself, kill a man, go to the priest, and he says, "I've forgiven your sins, drive on." Are we gonna stop this? Can we fix the state of the country - the National Assembly, in the lawmaking work, where a framework for normal life is being created, etc? Do we have the legitimacy to do this in the National Assembly? I agree that it suits you, as members of the DS, but does it suit you as MPs representing some citizens? Is the message you send with your passivity, "be immoral, pull, steal, take"? Then you wonder what newspapers write about the National Assembly of the Worst Things. It didn't start from you, it started since Milosevic, when he first removed immunity, when he first arrested, he brought out MPs from here. Let's stop it. I guess here we should look at ourselves as a moral person, I guess when one of us comes out here to say something, it's got to have weight, both for him, for the citizens, and for the colleagues he's sitting with here. We're here on a joint business, with all the political differences, with all the political criticism. They can be tough, they can go too far sometime, but you have to know, we look at each other in the face. All elections are won by citizens, not by us, not by party representatives, but by citizens. No matter how the citizens vote, they've never made a mistake. We can't respect the will of citizens in the bar right now, and we won't respect the will of citizens in the National Assembly. Why--what's up with the government? Every government as it shakes, that's better, because it knows the opposition is behind the door, blowing. Then they must make maximum legal decisions. She pulled out this government and learned from that budget rebalancing debate. If nothing else, at least they cut those abnormal salaries by 450,000, absolutely undeserved. And you know they're undeserved. There, one step has been taken. The fact that we're not going to support these two bill proposals, of course, is that we're going to talk about what's in these bill proposals that are contrary to the Constitutional Court Act, you know, there are such provisions. However, there are also some things that we missed in the Constitutional Court Act, especially in the part where there is the possibility that the judge will file a complaint against the decision of the High Court Council. We'll talk about all this in detail when it comes to our amendment, but it would be good if you heard what we're saying about these amendments. At the very least, and if you don't adopt them, pull out a message. I'm most afraid, we're all afraid here, that our courts aren't in operation, that they won't work. They'll start dealing with themselves. You're already making interesting lobbys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6969	Mr Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6970	The Honorable Presidents of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, today we are continuing the debate on a set of judicial laws, a set of laws that should make this state a rule of law, a set of laws that should be passed by the rule of law. I'm aware of that, none of us are satisfied with how the state has functioned so far, not for the past eight years, not for the past 15 years, not for the past 50 years. These laws will allow us to establish the rule of law, because the rule of law does not exist without an independent court, an independent judiciary, independent judges. The judges have been greatly humiliated with us these days. The judges have been demoted. They don't take the position they're supposed to take. Most judges do their job professionally and securely. I can't say most of them are corrupt or most of them don't know. Most people know and do their job well. There are fewer judges who are certainly corrupt and who are inextricable and why there is a perception that the court is corrupt. The evidence is that the Supreme Court judge Ljubomir Vukkovic was convicted of the crime of taking bribes, first sentenced to eight years, and then reduced to six years. The evidence is that out of the 60 judges of the Belgrade Commercial Court, 20 are being prosecuted, which certainly cannot talk about them doing business in a safe way. The proof of that is what we mentioned yesterday that in five and a half years, 4,300 criminal cases have become obsolete. In such an atmosphere only, I repeat, radical and root changes can lead to improvements in the judiciary and the return of citizens to the judge and to court. When you enter one court building, you should feel, like all citizens, as well as the accused, respect for the court, to stand before the judge and watch him with all due respect. Unlike when you go to court with us, you don't know what's more miserable. If the courtroom in which the judge judges are often these courtrooms, yesterday I was taking an example of Mionica, yes, right in Mionica is being tried in the elementary school classroom, where there is no heating and where the judge is sitting in his coat. Or is the poorer relationship of parties to judges who are blamed for judges who threaten and earn. The judge should be someone sublime, someone who shares justice, who is above all in the process, of course not just above the law. For such a position, the judges have failed to fight alone, we have failed to fight all together so far, and now we have one set of laws that will allow us to help the judges and the judiciary take that position that belongs to them. So, in addition to the need for life to change the judiciary completely, there is also a constitutional obligation provided for by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law that we should pass new laws on judges and a new law on the high council of the judiciary. The laws that are before us are fully developed in a scale with the National Strategy for Justice Reform. I repeat, this National Strategy was brought by this parliament in May 2006. In addition, the laws include elements of international standards for justice and include all those provisions in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Some solutions have been criticised here. These legal solutions were taken from the Constitution. I'll point to some of them in the end. What is it that brings us new law on judges? It brings us a whole new way of choosing judges. That way the choice of judges is resolved by the Constitution. Thus, the Constitution in Article 147 clearly provides for the choice of judges in this country. It can't be changed. The first choice of judges is practically carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We'll do the job. But in order not to have the influence of the policies and political parties that exist in the National Assembly being able to identify who will be the judge, we have provided for this legal solution and this legislative proposal that the proposal gives high advice to the judiciary. It may not be enough and the question is whether the high council of the judiciary will work without any influence, the known influences of family, professional. That's why we think there's something else that needs to be done, and that's a new law, and that's the law on the judicial academy. The law is in the works and I commend the Ministry of Justice for starting to work on the law. The law on the judicial academy should establish that, before the first election, those who want to be judges, attend the judicial academy, get grades and eventually take the high council of the judiciary, with the highest marks, and propose them to the National Assembly for Elections. Where do we, as a member of the ZES, disagree with neither the SRS nor the DSS? We don't agree on the concept. Our concept is that judges should choose the court, or other judges, or practice, to make that choice independent of politics. These laws provide for full independence of the judiciary from politics. I think that's what we've been fighting for all these years, and that's why I'm glad we came to such a solution. So, the basic principles that we pointed to both in the campaigns of party and in the fight to win democracy by October 5th were an independent judiciary, which includes a court budget that will be managed by the high council of the judiciary and the choice of judges independent of political parties. I think it's important that the public knows that. This law allows it. The High Judicial Council makes proposals and is therefore foreseen to be able to make one or more proposals. It's not bad to make one suggestion. We don't need the Parliament here to decide who's gonna be the judges. Yet more should be decided by the high council of the judiciary. I'll be happy to always propose one proposal, with the procedure prescribed by this law going past. As far as other newspapers are concerned about the election of judges for permanent judicial office, therefore, this election is fully served by the high council of the judiciary, and therefore the law states that the high council of the judiciary chooses and relieves judges. And another reason is that it says so, because it is foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask my colleagues to take a look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in which it clearly stands in the jurisdiction of the high council of the judiciary to elect and dismiss judges. It is not true what counterpart Petkovic said that he only resolves and first chooses the Assembly. So, the high council of the judiciary chooses and relieves judges, and only then do the judges, when elected by the high council of the judiciary, receive continuity and become a permanent judge. Another newspaper, very important in this law, is the evaluation of judges. As long as the judge is doing their duty, he will be obliged to go to training, so they are required to train, they are required to specialize, they are obliged to follow the case law. The training will be organised by the state, on the cost of the state, so they will not pay for that training, and during their work there will be an evaluation every three years. So, at least in three years, every judge will be evaluated and can get a grade that doesn't satisfy. If it receives an assessment that it does not satisfy it, it automatically initiates a discharge procedure for a judge who is not satisfied with being a judge and in an unsatisfactory manner performs his duty. There are also estimates that one judge can perform an extremely successful judicial function or successfully perform a judicial function and will depend on the progress of each judge. The next newspaper is disciplinary measures and disciplinary violations. We didn't have it in our laws before. I think it's important for citizens to know, citizens who are in contact with the judge and the judges daily, it's important to know that we have now predicted that every judge will be responsible for the offence, if it violates the principle of impartiality as a judge, if it is unfairly late in making and making a decision, which is very important to the citizens. If he takes to work an object that is not in order as it has arrived, many others have arrived, and he does not process it, he processes some for whom someone has asked them to work in order. If they are late for scheduled hearings or searches, if they unduly delay proceedings, unless they respect working hours, if they engage in inappropriate relations with the parties or their legal agents in the procedures they conduct. So, this is only part of the reason for giving a disciplinary measure of offense, and these disciplinary measures of offense can be either a warning, or a withdrawal of 50% of the salary by 12 months or a ban on progress within three years. All this seems still ineffective if you do not see that there is another provision of this law, which is that if a serious offense is committed or if a judge commits three times the violations I have stated, the procedure for its resolution is automatically initiated. So, this procedure can initiate all faces, and that's good, and citizens can find protection from judges who are unprofessional, biased and unconsciously performing their duties. As far as the Law on the High Council of the judiciary is concerned, the High Council of the judiciary represents practically the supreme guarantee of judicial independence. The high council of the judiciary is that, as I said yesterday, which proposes a budget for the entire judicial system, the High Council of the Judiciary is the one that deals with spending budgets in the judiciary, not more than the Ministry of Justice. The high council of the judiciary is the one who is independent in spending his budget on his work and the High Council of the judiciary is completely independent of the executive authority and cannot blackmail the executive authority by whether they will give him funds, whether they will give him rooms for the office. That's what he decides for himself. The high council of the judiciary is mainly elected by the judges. So we have 11 members of the High Council of the Judiciary, seven of which are judges. A good solution, although criticised by counterpart Petkovic, is that the Supreme Court president is also the chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council. First the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected, and then he becomes the chairman of the Supreme Judiciary Council. Such a solution exists in all countries in Europe. Election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are right to choose the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but choose in one procedure that previously has a general choice among judges. I'm talking about election members from the judge's office. For the first time, we give all the judges the opportunity to choose their representatives in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Therefore, members of the judge's office will be elected by judges and basic courts, and appeals courts, and economic courts, and the Supreme Court of Cassation. All will participate in the election of all kinds and all courts will be representatives of members of the High Council of the judiciary. The elected seven members thus have an absolute majority in the High Council of the Judiciary and cannot be the minister of justice, who is also a member, or the chairman of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly, to revote the elected members who are judges. As far as the election from the line of attorneys is concerned, that's what the bar of attorneys solves in the way she thinks and thinks she should, and this law doesn't need to be prescribed. And it takes a lawyer's chamber to be autonomous of all this. As for representatives of law schools, it is very clear that the session of the deans of all law schools in Serbia will determine the procedure for the selection of representatives by law schools. It is not necessarily someone who is at the oldest university in Serbia, only the dean of the university performs a technical part of the work, i.e. convenes a session and formally delivers the proposal to the High Council, or the National Assembly. So we succeeded, after eight years of debate on justice, to get the High Council of the Judiciary, which is independent of the executive authority. I'm sure he'll be guaranteed an independent judiciary and an independent judiciary. In public, we witnessed a great controversy that was largely initiated by some members of the Society of Judges. The controversy concerned whether the general choice provided for by this law is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. Not only is the general choice in accordance with the Constitution and not only is the general choice necessary, but it is also foreseen by the Constitutional Law. I remind you, the Constitutional Law passed this assembly, brought it to a qualified majority, passed it as a law to assist in the implementation of the Constitution, and in its Article 7 paragraph 2. The constitutional law says -- the choice of judges and president of courts will be carried out no later than one year from the day of the establishment of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. We have an obligation, according to the Constitutional Law, to make the choice of the judge and president of the courts. This is what the Constitutional Law has given us, and that is our obligation. Whether this member of the Constitutional Law is unconstitutional, whether or not it is in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court may decide, but for two years no one has thought of and wanted to submit an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this member. The Society of Judges, who convinces us that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, has never submitted such an initiative. I think they know well, too, and they have submitted that initiative, so the Constitutional Court will decide that that provision is in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, it is our duty to make the choice of judges. There's one more thing, so we don't have any false dilemmas about the general election, we were talking about the network of courts and the law on court-ordering. All the courts are new, the new Supreme Casation Court has not existed before and has a different jurisdiction. They're new appeals courts, they didn't exist before. There are new higher courts, there are new and basic courts and they have different territorial jurisdiction, different arrangements. Now, by law, when one judge goes to another court, when he goes to a higher court, when we elect him as a court, he must be re-elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So it's impossible, regardless of our change and regardless of the provisions on general choice, that some judge be elected to these courts that I have cited, which are practically everyone without passing the election procedure. If we talk about political reasons and political influence, and one MP has passed on here, it is the thesis of the Society of Judges in which it is said that there will be a political choice of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and then politics will choose all judges. That's not true. The election is being held by the High Council of Justice. In the High Council of Justice, which again has 11 members in question, there are six judges, a professor of law school and a representative of the Bar Association. Only the minister is a member and a member of the Republic Attorney General. Therefore, there is no influence between politics and the executive authorities or the choice of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. In the end, I have to say one important thing. I apologize for time. The judges elected so far at Tito's time were elected in Milosevic's time, elected after October 5th, and all these judges were elected in the Serbian Parliament, with the influence of politics and political parties that were in those parliaments. This is the first time judges will choose other judges, or their profession. This is the first time that this election is independent of politics and I don't see any reason why any judge would fear a choice from his fellow judges. I don't think there's any reason to worry about any judge who's doing his job safely and professionally. The criteria for this general election will be laid down by the High Judicial Council in accordance with the law. I ask, of course, on behalf of our parliamentary group that the Ministry be transferred, or Minister, and of course we will ask the member of the Justice Committee to try to make these criteria measurable, to be objective, to be professional and to be fully absent from politics in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6971	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinovic. He's got a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225 and 226, and I'm looking for information on what's going on with the Vozhdovac Municipal Assembly. At one of the previous sessions, I referred a number of questions, and among other things, how it is possible that the president of the municipality is elected outside the assembly hall. The deputy head of the Vozdovac municipality was also elected outside the assembly hall, in rooms where the opposition's committees were not allowed to come in and vote for the same choice. After this first scandalous session and this election by the president and vice president of the municipality, a second, also scandalous session, held without a quorum, took place. There were 28 of the 56 council members present. According to them, the 29th committee was Isidora Ignac of the LDP. However, the representatives of the SRS indicated that the mentioned had become a member of the Municipal Council and that it was no longer a committee member and that it could not give a quorum. Despite the fact that the DS and other parties in power are again violently continuing the session and interpreting the law as it suits them. After that, opposition parties appeal to the court. The court adopts the same thing, and the decisions you make at the session cancels. It is interesting that the old municipal electoral commission is resolved, and the new one elected at the session does not exist, because there was no quorum, as the court also confirmed and annulled the decision to elect a new municipal electoral commission. Despite all this, on Friday November 7th, they held a third-in-a-kind scandalous session, again without a quorum. At the insistence of the SRS committee to make public appeal to the board to count it, the president rejects it and continues without the quorum. According to him, the 29th committee is again the same person, the disputed Isidora Ignac, for which the court has already decided that he cannot be a councilman and that he cannot do the quorum. The opposition's committees again appeal to the court and the court re-admits the same. Among other things, the election of the municipal electoral commission has been annulled again, so that SO Vozdovac has for a long time not had a municipal electoral commission, nor could it end up sitting normally during or leading it, because there is no quorum. How long will this state of affairs be tolerated in the municipality of Vozdovac? How can the court's decision as President of the Vozdovac Municipality not be binding? The Democratic Party, the SPS and the LDP have caused chaos in this municipality. Despite court decisions, they hold sittings without quorum. The court has remanded their decisions twice, and my question is, how long will this situation be tolerated in the municipality of Vozdovac, while there will be non-binding court decisions for them? (President: Time. Here I go. I refer the question to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Justice, as there are also elements of the crime here for contempt of the court's decision, on two occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6973	Yes, your questions will be forwarded to the competent ministries. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, the SPS-JS, the LDP and the NS parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, since there is no Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6974	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, the LDP has the view that it supports every reformist effort of the government, coalitions in power, and a set of judicial laws that are in line with our principle we support. As far as citizens are concerned, the situation in the judiciary is quite difficult, slightly said. Whoever had to deal with this court and the court knows how hard it is to get some justice. It is one of the binding factors why it is necessary to reform the judiciary. We have ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, which expects us to harmonize our regulations with EU rules, to accept European standards and in the judiciary. So that's also one of the binding factors why we need to reform the judiciary. The 2006 Constitution also obliges the regulations to comply with the constitution. So, although we did not support this Constitution, although this Constitution was adopted with the consensus of the largest number of political parties, in which the consensus of the LDP did not participate, we respect this Constitution which is currently in force and gives certain guidelines binding, in which way to comply with the rules in the domain of the judiciary with the Constitution. Therefore, when all of this is considered, it is understandable and we welcome it, that this set of judicial laws has arrived on the agenda of the Assembly. I would especially refer to constitutionality, especially these two laws that are on the agenda today. I would quote Article 6(1). The Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution, which provides that courts educated in accordance with the former Constitution continue to work until they comply with the Constitution of the regulations governing their organisation and jurisdiction, as well as the position of judges. What does that mean? This means that the courts currently in office, which are educated under the old constitution, are still working, but are expected to pass regulations that will comply with the 2006 Constitution. So it's assumed that if someone has to comply with the laws and courts, they're courts. Therefore, it is inevitable to pass new rules regarding the law on judges and now and the law on the high council of the judiciary. Therefore, it is one of the reasons why these laws are in line with the Constitution, no matter how many reserves there are and objections to that fact. I would also like to appeal to Article 147(4). The constitution, which says the high council of the judiciary also decides on the choice of judges who are in permanent judicial office in a second or higher court. Given that we are now in this procedure to pass this law on the regulation of courts, which provides for quite some other courts, with some different powers, such as the basic court, the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeal and the like, and this member and this position of the Constitution, also confirms the constitutionality of these laws that are on today's agenda. In addition to what I've already said, the very discontinuity of our socio-political arrangement and system also requires a different approach to this matter as judges, judges and prosecutors are concerned. I remind you that the Law on Judges of the 1990s is still in force, which is obviously inappropriate time and today's needs of our society. By the way, we with the 2006 Constitution have stopped existing as a socialist society, we have already taken over the capitalist system of values. So this also indicates that because of the discontinuity, and it is todiscontinuity when you move from one to another socio-political system and arrangement, it is necessary to establish some new systems of values and edit them into some more modern and tailored regulations. Otherwise, the discontinuity is also in the fact that the court mandate is entrusted. The current constitution provides for a limited and permanent term of office of the judge, and otherwise the old Constitution did not foresee it. Article 147(1) and (2) The constitution says: "The National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, elects a judge for the first time to be elected as judge. The term of office of the judge who was first elected to the judge's office takes three years." The old Constitution does not provide for this kind of limited mandate. Therefore, we need to coordinate the choice of these judges as the donor, or one who entrusts the mandates. While according to the old Constitution, it is the Assembly that elects judges, according to the new Constitution it is only in the first case of the Assembly, and in the case of a permanent position there is a high council of the judiciary. It would really be inappropriate if in case we didn't do it, let's call it re-election of judges, although in my opinion, it's one choice of judges in accordance with the Constitution, in case we don't do it, we'd have a situation where one part of the judge was elected by one authority, and the other part of the judge was elected by another authority, and then we'd come into a strange situation -- that those elected by the Assembly were absolutely unconstitutional judges, because they weren't elected in accordance with the 2006 Constitution. This already creates one legal uncertainty and we really welcome the proposal for this law, which provides that judges will be elected in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the new law. The post-war re-election of judges is a necessity and is inevitable precisely for those reasons that we mentioned. Otherwise, yesterday, the minister mentioned that the law was also attended by the Society of Judges, prominent lawyers, lawyers, and many others. Therefore, it is assumed that there is a social consensus that has realized that the conditions have matured to adopt a pro-European, progressive, good law that will allow the judiciary to change radically. The strategic interest of the judiciary is to be independent, efficient and uncompromised. Independence shouldn't be marred by independence from responsibility. The good solution is that the law foresees a serious responsibility for judges and the possibility of constant control of the functioning of judges and judges, which should not be a distraction, or a danger to those judges who judge by law, who are industrious, who work, who are of integrity. It is, first of all, a danger to those who are doing something contrary to it. Therefore, if all these conditions exist, then I see no reason for any opposition to this law being passed. Normally, like any draft law, there are some shortcomings that we have proposed certain amendments to, I suppose, other MPs from other MPs' clubs. These amendments serve only to fix certain solutions, and all of this again in the citizens' interest. I underline that the LDP is in opposition, but it always supports everything that is reformistic, that is, what is progressive and what is in the interest of Serbian citizens. You will agree that it is currently in the citizens' best interest to attract as many investors as possible, to create a situation in a society that will meet foreign investment and that will provide certain stability, legal certainty for the smooth work of foreign investors, and besides our own. Most importantly, it seems to me that the fact in this set of judicial laws is that the choice of judges is to be removed from parliament, therefore, from the influence of politics in the judiciary. Who knows best the work of the court, who knows best the work of the judge than they do themselves. So, you don't need to insinuate in advance and assume they might not know how to do that. I think they're mature and competent enough, and we can certainly find six or seven responsible people, professional people, a judge of integrity who's going to start a major judicial reform, and that's the depoliticalization that LDP otherwise insists on. So, moving the choice of judges from parliament to the high council of the judiciary gives the judges broad opportunities to actually manage themselves and the full judiciary, and thus to prove that this society has the strength to dissipate such experts who will create a serious judiciary. I am particularly pleased that you have obviously accepted the criticism we have made when discussing the draft budget rebalancing law on the discussions of the ruling coalition and I see that there are more and more MPs who are participating in the work of the Assembly. I mean the MPs of the ruling coalition. So, we welcome that and thank you as an opposition that you have accepted our suggestion. I would just like to point out that if we adopt this law, I speak in the first person of the plural because LDP will support these laws, we think that they are really reformist, in which case the challenge is great in front of the courts, and expectations are even higher. So, I think it's a good thing that the proposer finally submitted these laws to this House, I mean those on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6975	MP Srdjan Spasojevic has his word. The total debate time for your parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 48 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6976	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the set of the Law on Judges and the High Council of the Judiciary, I think that at some point when we need to think about whether everything should work this quickly, whether the area of the courts should be changed suddenly and with regard to the work and selection of judges. I think it's a whole set that's extremely fast and maybe it should have been done gradually. He says this is all about speed, because of EU accession, sometimes they are not good because it is the legal system of the state and I think there may be a lot of problems. The New Serbia Parliament Club will not be able to support such solutions because we think they are hasty and should have led public debate better on all issues, and given the large number of objections, especially from the profession and from the Society of Judges, there must have been room for other solutions. Of course, through discussion in principle and in particular, we will point to some of us essential problems and, in some ways, help to improve something in these laws. First, conditions for choice, for example. The casation and appeals court, the conditions of eight and 12 years are not enough. I think these conditions should be increased, for an appeal court for a minimum of 10 years in the profession, and for a cassation court from 12 years to 15 years. Why does it matter? For a simple reason, I think the conditions of the cassation court and the conditions for selecting the Constitutional Court are equal to 15 years of working experience in the profession. I think it's celibate and New Serbia has proposed it with an amendment, and I think that this way we will certainly improve the quality of justice, for the simple reason that we think that a newspaper like the Court of Appeal and eight years of work in the profession is not enough for one instance a court, which is also a newspaper. Eight years is little, at least 10 years of work experience is necessary. As regards the proposal of judges who are first elected, a labour assessment is required for candidates who come from the order of the judicial assistants. Prior to proposing a high council of the judiciary, he may hold a conversation with the candidates reported. We must insist here that he has to talk to the candidates because it's about judges, people who are going to share justice in this country and put the possibility he can, which means in most cases that it's never going to be and that it's going to be in some practice that's not good. It's an extremely important conversation. It's about people where direct contact is extremely important when they're elected. I would especially like to appeal that this disciplinary procedure should be completely bypassed in this way. We must not place judges in this country in the category of civil servants, judges are independent, independent. They will not be able to judge adequately if they are sanctioned in money or in some other disciplinary responsibilities. Simply, if someone is not doing his job well, he needs to be eliminated, and of course such a man should not perform his judicial function. What happens if someone gets fined 50% of their personal income in some period or other sanctions, how will that man in the future be able to judge? There is also room for abuses of various kinds, for if someone is numbered practically days in his work, the question is how he will behave in cases. Of course, we have problems here and with the Venice Commission, which simply says that increasing the salary of judges for these special courts in double cases, by 100%, is also not good because there is also a possibility of a major impact of the state and of a situation that can be extremely controversial, so it's up to you to think about whether that's the way it should be, whether there should be such a difference. The law on the high council of the judiciary is also on the agenda. The observations refer to the composition of the High Council of the judiciary and the way members of the Board of Judges are elected. The proposed method of choice is complex and does not provide regional representation and expertise, given the role and competence of this body defined by law. Article 22 of the Law provides that courts are to be elected members of the High Council of the judiciary and that one member is to be required from the territory of the AP. I think I'd stop here and I'd like to appeal to you that from the area of each court of appeals, there must be one representative at a time during this election. It is not good to separate an autonomous province with certain special privileges in such a choice. The constitution is correct, Madam Minister, but I don't think it's a good message because, as is known, the appeals courts are also in central Serbia, Kragujevac and Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad. In view of the representation of appeals courts and in this territory of the country, let us not make such differences in the same country. One of the main concerns when you are already referring to the Constitution is that it is Article 153. The constitution prescribed that all election members, including those of the judges, should be elected by the National Assembly. The High Council of the judiciary is an independent and independent body that provides and guarantees the independence and independence of courts and judges. The High Council of the judiciary has 11 members, and the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, the justice minister and the chairman of the board of directors, joins the High Court. In Article 52 of this Law, the application of judges for members of the High Council of the judiciary prescribed in the basic provisions of this Act shall be waived. The main objection is that the election procedure by the judges themselves is lagging behind, and is given to the current High Council of Justice's call to decide on which one of the judges will run for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. This loses the legitimacy of members of the High Council of Judges, who would have had the legitimacy to be elected in the manner prescribed in the basic provisions of this law. This is particularly relevant when it comes to the fact that the transitional provisions of the Law on Judges provide for the re-election of all judges to be held by the First Assembly of the High Judicial Council. So these two laws are on the agenda. As I pointed out, I will repeat once again, that the New Serbia MPs through the amendments they have submitted will try to fix something that you, I suppose, will certainly vote for because you have a majority. But it would be good if New Serbia's amendments were not a dead letter on paper, but to respect all that we have suggested, at least most, because they are excellent solutions. I think he'll fix these laws. I'm sure those solutions will help to channel it in a good way. But I repeat another time, because of the hasty solutions, because of the speed in the process, due to lack of public debate, because of the enormous dissatisfaction, both the judge and the judge's society and the profession, I think that in all of this, the most people of Serbia who will not be able to adequately have a favor to lead the disputes. I think what is fundamental is that, Madam Minister, you have to take care of, it's a free set of all these laws on judicial reform unless you fix the law on the executive procedure, if the executive procedure is not implemented in inadequate ways, because for years the citizens of Serbia have been tried, for years they've had the costs of the trial, they've wanted to exercise some of their rights, and when some act that needs to be carried out by a verdict or anything in terms of natural persons, it's completely inaccessible to the citizens of Serbia. Only in an adequate way are things being carried out where the sued state, where the living accounts are, and where it is possible to implement a proposal for execution, where it allows for possibility when it comes to state institutions, insurance companies or anything. I think it's your turn to go around the courts and see for yourself what I'm calling for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6977	Thank you. We'll continue our work after an hour's break at 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15/05]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6979	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the rule of law guaranteed in Article 3. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot be established without an independent judiciary. Through the law on judges we are discussing today, this constitutional provision, as Minister Malovic said in an opening statement, has been translated into law. The necessary precondition for the work of the judges is their independence, as well as the material security of them and their family members. That's what all the MPs in this room seem to agree with me. The Law on Judges also provides for the material security of judges, but also their independence. I'll support that by quoting three articles from the judge's law. Article 1 says - the judge is independent in acting and making decisions. The judge judges and judges under the Constitution, the law and other general acts and confirmed international contracts, as well as the general rules of international law and by his conscience. Article 2 says that the judge performs his duties as permanent, except when he is first elected judge. Article 4 states that the judge has the right to pay enough to maintain his or her family's safety and safety. This is detailed and detailed in the subsequent articles. None of the provisions of the law on judges question the independence of judges. It is even explicitly said that the judge is obliged to maintain trust in his independence and impartiality on every occasion. The Law on Judges has been developed in accordance with the highest legal standards and in accordance with international conventions in this area. First of all, according to the basic principles of judicial independence, adopted in Milan in 1985, and later confirmed UN General Assembly resolution at the end of the same year. What are these postulates that are set out in these conventions and translated into the law on judges? This is primarily immunity for opinion and voting in the decision-making process, then, the right to association; then, the right to participate in decisions of importance for the work of the courts; then, the right to participation, or professional training; then the continuity of the judicial function; the non-movability; mutual independence in relation to other judges and other rights guaranteed by this law on judges. However, in addition to the rights that provide judges with independence and material security, this law clearly, and in accordance with also the highest international standards, and in accordance with the European Law on Judges of 1988, also requires clear obligations for judges. First of all, the first obligation that has been particularly highlighted and elaborated in several members of this law is that the judgment be reached within a reasonable period of time. It's even explicitly said, and that's a condition for a judge's resolution if his case goes out of date. Only one such offence is enough to relieve the judge. There are a number of those violations whose repetition leads to the termination of the judicial office, but only because of the non-compliance of the law, i.e. the non-implementation of the Constitution, the law and other sources of justice that our law knows. Of course, if we had a law like this right now, we wouldn't have judges who have dozens of out-of-date cases or cases that have been withdrawn for several years. Which of the citizens, we ask ourselves all together, care that they have judges who do not schedule hearings or their cases become obsolete. I hope no one, or, to be more specific, rarely to a coma. What is the purpose of the verdict for the state? What is the purpose of the verdict that will be passed after five or six years? What does it accomplish? What is the purpose of the perpetrator's crime? What is the purpose of the sentence given after so many years? Where is that educational character or if you want the educational character of criminal sanctions? Not to mention cases in guilt or in front of trade courts that last for 15 years, where is there, we all wonder together, credibility and witnesses and evidence, and ultimately the credibility and purpose of punishment, the very punishment that is being imposed afterwards? Many of the defendants on the basis of these convictions and on the basis of the processes we've had so far and do not remember what they're being tried for. In the meantime, some committed other crimes, of course expecting that those who had previously committed forgiveness would be released. The DS is fighting and pushing for this to be the past, and therefore, of course, the DS will vote for this law and for a set of laws that bring about judicial reform. I will mention Article 28 of the new Law on Judges, where the judge is obliged to inform the President of all cases that last for more than a year and after every three months inform him of what is going on with the case he is conducting, which is why it is not finished. This is just an illustration of the legislator's intention to bring order to the judiciary. The work of the judges, according to the laws, is also subject to evaluation. The law found that evaluation, on the one hand, could mean improvement for judges, and on the other hand sanctions, up to resolution. Therefore, the continuity of the judicial function cannot be provided with unhappiness, but rather with work based on the Constitution, the law and other general acts that are the source of rights with us. A judge's office is not a privilege that makes no commitment. The judge, this stems from the provisions of this law, must be worthy of judicial functions throughout the course of this honorable duty. Judges are obliged to improve professionally, to care for the reputation of the judge's office. The Law on Judges contributes to the achievement of constitutionality and legality, with the strengthening of the judicial authority, with the continued emphasis on the top legal and ethical standards that should be characterized by that authority. This law should also enable the creation of a new judicial staff that will clearly know, based on this law, how the judiciary works, which are the rights of judges, but also what are the obligations of judges. In the end, let me repeat that this is not a lawsuit with the judiciary or with the judges, but this is a mistrial, inefficient judiciary, corruption in the judiciary. The DS will therefore support both this law and all the laws of the set of judicial laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6980	Thank you. In accordance with Article 85(4), today we will extend the work after 18.00 hours, and according to the agenda that is on the agenda at that time. I would also like to inform you that the Diabetological Union of Serbia has addressed the Assembly with the idea that on 14 November, World Diabetes Day, a single action that it has been doing for years, and a large number of MPs have participated in the action, therefore, in measuring sugar in the blood of MPs, employees and media representatives who want it. This year, on Thursday, November 13th, from 9 pm to 12 pm, the Alliance would perform this action, and I am giving information that those who want to participate in the action, or who want to determine their sugar level, would come without breakfast. Mr. Jovan Palalic, the MP of the people, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6981	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the debate continues on a set of judicial laws which, as has been pointed out several times yesterday in discussions and MPs of the DSS Parliament Club, aims to change the image of the judiciary, but, according to us, in one direction that does not contribute exactly to the declared objectives and the declared policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the judiciary. It is not disputed that today's debate and topics on the agenda, which are the law on judges and the law on the high council of the judiciary, have their basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which, I would like to repeat here, the DSS strongly supported both in the referendum and in the National Assembly. A series of provisions contained in the proposed laws have its own operationalisation under the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the provisions contained in Article. 142 to 155, which regulates the position of judges, the position of courts and the position of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. As some of the norms defined in the Constitution are translated here, effectively elaborated into norms in laws, they are not controversial in one part of their work and for our parliamentary club, I would like to point out that there are provisions which are both problematic and cannot be otherwise observed, except in relation to the laws we discussed yesterday, and especially with the law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors. We can also see the fundamental intensity of the legislator and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the future judiciary has a vision. This vision comes down to two things: the abolition of courts and the reduction of the number of judges. We will soon, we have seen here and deadlines, and in 2009, there will be a year when it will be implemented in concrete terms, faced with the fact that 104 municipal courts will be abolished and certainly, following such a decision and the follow-up of the implementation of these norms and laws, another decision will be made, that a large number of judges will be left without a job, which here in the law on judges and states. In fact, this is what the Honorable Minister Malovic said in her presentation, that access to the reorganisation of the network of courts will lead to an imminent and reduction of the number of judges, which is exactly the goal of reforming the judiciary in this way, but not in a good and best way, but to concentrate, as we said yesterday in discussions, in a small number of large cities. Judges who have tried in smaller areas, who have been observed here by the government's representatives, have even indicated that their degree of corruption is most pronounced, certainly, in the implementation of this law, will be out of work. Again, I want to point out, we have not received any concrete argument, no fact that the degree of corruption in smaller places is incomparably greater than the degree of corruption in large cities, i.e. that corruption and sprawling, as it is stated, is much greater in small towns with tycoons, than in large cities where there are a larger number of inhabitants, where there are greater interests and where there is no doubt that there is a need for such a kind of pressure on the judiciary to a much greater extent. This whole concept just falls to the first point, which is the reorganization of the judicial network. This is then explained by the norms that operate in the transitional and final provisions of the law on judges from Article 100 below. Of course, there are solutions that cannot be highlighted as moving forward, such as disciplinary responsibility, and I think it is well done in this bill. I think she can solve the problems that we've all discussed here to the most, and that's disrespect for what's said as a reasonable deadline, disrespect for all the provisions of the procedural rules that lead to the proceedings being delayed, but also for all the violations of the law by the judges. These standards can be quite sufficient, as well as the rules on the resolution of judges, that the problems of unconscious and unprofessional work are resolved, not that this is resolved in a way that judges are dismissed, and that at this point we have no clear criteria, other than what is stated as dignity and expertise, which is not worked out, which is quite general and which can lead to different abuses, bias and what is pointed out here, to the politicisation of the judiciary in making choices. As for the High Council of the Judiciary, I would like to say that in 2001, the DSS came up with the concept, the Proposal for a Law on the High Council of Justice adopted by the then parliament, that the judiciary, the judges, were given the opportunity to influence the decision-making of the judicial authority. The development of this concept, which was then adopted and which produced the results, is now seen through the constitutional norm in the formation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and through the adoption of a law on the High Council of the Judiciary. But we can't look again at a series of contradictions and contradictions that exist in this bill, especially in its transitional and final provisions that speak of the first election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, where judges of the High Council of Justice, and in general the Supreme Court of Serbia, and we think that the norms, as defined here and as indicated, are not good and quite certain, through amendments that our parliamentary group has submitted, we will discuss more. I just want to point out, I guess it's a technical mistake, but I'd like to hear if that's true, in Article 102(2) of the Judges Act, it's said that "the acting president of the court takes office on 1 January 2009. The Honorable Madam Minister says it's a mistake. It's a little confusing for all the MPs who read this law. I assume it's the deadline of 1 January 2010. So, in addition to the fact that this law represents the realisation of constitutional norms, there are a number of irregularities related to the law on the seat and areas of courts, which are not good. It's a constant reminder of the government's representatives. We heard yesterday from representatives of political parties who make up the ruling majority that the law will, in fact, bring the greatest turbulence into the judiciary. I want to remind you here, even though the Honorable Minister said it yesterday, the judiciary and the public are upset. Our parliamentary club receives many calls indicating that such solutions are not good and that the abolition of courts is something that will be a very bad message for many municipalities in Serbia. In this way, I point out once again that the bill is withdrawn from the assembly procedure, to respect established objections and parliamentary clubs, but also to the public, and to the judicial public, the judicial public, and not to resort to it. Because in addition to being a bad message for these municipalities, I repeat, it is a bad message for investors and citizens who want to exercise their rights to those courts in their midst, where the degree of corruption is not high, but it is only one excuse to enter into one reform that has a goal, I repeat, inefficient judiciary and judiciary that will not produce results in the next period. I am convinced that this opinion is shared by a large number of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6982	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Honorable Minister, as well as the citizens of Serbia, since we have very little time, I will use this time of my MP group of NS to read a statement from the Serbian Judges' Association since 10.10.2008. So, the Association of Judges of Serbia notes: "No moment have the Society of Judges been able to make available the versions of the law on the regulation of courts and the law on the high council of the judiciary, with current transitional and final provisions, nor have the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors in any version, and especially the law on judges, with transitional and final provisions that provide for the general choice, i.e. re-election of judges in Serbia. With several procedures, not numerous, but essential, laws that are now in the official procedure have changed significantly compared to those that were before the Venice Commission and the Judges' Society. The professional public on two occasions considered working versions of the law on the high council of the judiciary, the law on judges and the law on the regulation of courts. For the first time since the round table, held on 21 February 2008, by reviewing these laws, with reasoned opinions, proposals and criticisms of the Judges' Society, the Venice Council of Europe's commission gave an opinion on them in 15.03.2008. The expert debate, organised by the Ministry of Justice with the OSCE on 4 and 5 September 2008, discussed working versions of those laws, with different solutions to certain important issues compared to previous versions. There is a need for a public debate on judicial laws, although they are of great importance to legal certainty and the future of the entire state. "As it is the root changes in the judicial system in Serbia, I think it was necessary to take into account the very important suggestions of the Serbian Judges' Society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6984	National MP Petar Petrovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6985	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister and Associates of the Ministry, the SPS and the JS Group will support, in principle, all proposed laws in the field of justice, and if some of the amendments that this parliamentary group has made to improve the text and provisions of several laws on the agenda will also vote for all proposed laws in general. What the professional public has been following for several years, but also the general public of Serbia, are expected reforms in the Serbian state's judiciary. Finally, after a long time we have on the agenda the proposals of these laws, those that were yesterday and today these two laws, as we will tomorrow and the next days consider the remaining laws in this area. What I can say when it comes to JS MPs, acting within the SPS-JS parliamentary club, is that certain provisions given in the draft law on the choice of judges we welcome and we think that this is good progress in relation to the existing provisions of the current Law on the choice of judges. This is particularly important when it comes to those members who talk about the choice of judges and presidents. I am particularly emphasising the Presidents of the Courts, because it is explicitly stated in the law that the Presidents of the Courts can choose from the ranks of judges of these courts, which means that we are leaving one, according to us from the JS, poor practice, and we had this in the earlier period of time – I can responsibly argue that because I was a member of the Justice and Administration Committee in 2001 to 2003 – when we elected judges of municipal courts for the presidents of the Supreme Court when we elected not the Supreme Court, but another judge of the lower court. By avoiding such practice and by translating that the election of the President of the Court is done precisely by the judges of that court, I think one big step forward. Secondly, which is very often mentioned here, and I have to point out, I can't get off this pay phone without saying it, is that there's a lot of talk about corruption in the judiciary, in the judiciary, without some valid evidence of corruption. I'm not going to say that there's no corruption in the judiciary either, but there are other parts of society and in some other professions, so there's a lot less to talk about, whether out of fear or out of something else, I'm not going to judge. I'm not defending corruption, but if we're talking about corruption, let's not in that old Serbian saying that because of one bad Nikola, we hate St. Nicholas. So if there's corruption, let's give evidence where it is and cut it in the bud. Let's not all fair judges of the lower or higher courts put them in the same basket and call them corrupt in one expression, if there is one among them who does so. So I think we should be very careful when we talk about corruption. I'm not sure that even after these new laws, we're going to completely root out that negative phenomenon. What we are slightly concerned about, I must say, and afraid that when we elect new judges, when we re-election, that some judges who have consistently applied the laws of this country, which this assembly has made as the highest legislative body, are now re-electioned into another plan, i.e. being elected, or re-elected because one or some political party or party at that time did not like the decision that that court made or the judge, and he made only with strict application of the laws in force at that time. The question arises whether the judge may, if he has taken an oath, consistently not to apply the applicable law at that time. That's a lot to take care of. We keep talking, and I think we're finally going to apply this, about depolitizing the judiciary, about judges choosing between themselves those who will go to several courts, that it's high advice that will make the final decision on who will be the judge of a court. That's what we SPS-JS welcome. Also, when it comes to that part of this law on the choice of judges, about the time the judges stop acting by law, it explicitly states that the judge ceases his office from 65 years of age or 40 years of training, except when he has started cases and when the President of the Court's decision can stay for a maximum of two years to complete the cases. I think that's good, with what needs to be taken into account, and the practice will show that there are a lot of judges in our courts who have moved from some other authorities to work in court, and they have an unfettered job experience, so someone at 57, 58 or 60 years old has 40 years of insurance training and will have to retire by law. We have to apply it strictly, if we want to create new jobs in this area for young people who finish law schools, take judicial exams and wait for them to be employed. We from Unity Serbia have submitted one amendment to these laws, and yesterday I did not have a chance to talk about it because of the passage of time this SPS-JS parliamentary group has at its disposal, when it comes to the seat of the courts. I'd like to ask the Ministry to consider that at this point in Jagodina there is now a trade court in Kragujevac. There's no new proposal for that department. Statistics show that out of all the economic disputes in front of the Trade Court, the future name was as before the business court in Kragujevac, 60% of the cases are from the territory of the Pomorava County. There are economic and any other justifications for the Kragujevac Trade Court department being in Jagodina. I also ask the Ministry to consider the proposal of the Court and the judges from Ćupre to be the primary court department in Jagodina, because that is their request, and tradition also says that Ćupria is much closer and more complex, so to speak, a connection with Jagodina than with another city. With all this in mind and expecting that after the election of these laws, the judiciary will get over some call for diseases and that we will create conditions for Serbia and through the regulation of this area to obtain conditions for entry into Europe, the SPS-JS will vote in favour of the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6986	Thank you. National MP Dejan Mirovic has a word after him, MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6987	Ladies and gentlemen, in the proposal for a Law on Judges, it is pointed out at the very beginning in Article 1 that the judge is independent, then the Court of Justice is referred to in Article 2 as being permanent, and Article 3 states that the Judge is obliged to maintain trust in his independence and impartiality in every occasion. Article 12 states that the judge's office lasts uninterrupted from the first election for the judge to the completion of the working century. Article 22 states that the judge is free to represent his understanding in the determination of facts and in the application of rights, therefore, in everything he decides. So other than the pathetic style that is occasionally used, these provisions cannot be objected to in a formal and legal sense. In the last part of the law, which, as if written by some other person or more of them, under a neutral title - transitional and final provisions, even within this part of Article 99, states that it is a matter of continuing the judicial function, therefore, not to mention the termination of the judicial function, are the disputed provisions that fully deny all that is stated in the right part of the law. For example, in article 100 that regulates the choice of judges, the choice of judges, in accordance with this law, will be carried out by 1 December 2009. Article 101 states - Judges under Article 99(1) and Article 2 of this Act, who are not elected under this Act, the duty shall cease on 31 December 2009. Therefore, it is a weakly disguised and politically motivated lustration of judges, because according to Article 100 of the Reelection Decision, the high council of the judiciary will take a decision no later than 60 days after the establishment of a high council of the judiciary. Eight of the 11 members of the high council of the judiciary are elected by the National Assembly. It is known that the assembly is dominated by the ruling political majority, also by three high-level council members under the post of one minister in charge of the judiciary. So another member of the council, which is very tied up, is least said, for the ruling coalition. This violation of the Constitution in the proposal for a law on judges or the introduction of a policy in the judiciary, more specifically the endangerment of the continuity and impartiality of the judicial function, also noted the profession. For example, Konstantin Mikic-Vranjic of the Association of Judges of Serbia said on 29 October 2008 about the proposal for a law on judges: "We are not our own goal but citizens have the right to an impartial judge who is constant and independent. The continuity of the judicial function should exist independently of the change of power. The judge can't be independent unless he's permanent. A solution like this opens up the possibility that any government, whenever it wants, will change judges. "Also, the president of the Serbian Society of Judges Dragana Boljevic said to the same occasion: "For us, an unacceptable unconstitutional solution from the Draft Law on Judges relating to the choice of holders of judicial functions is unacceptable." When the provisions of the Constitution, more specifically Article 142, which states that courts are independent and independent in their work, it is clear that the objections coming from the profession are absolutely correct. This weakly disguised attempt to lustrate judges, who are trying to contradict themselves through the bill, is not based on international standards either. The proposed fact cannot hide it in too long sentences and vague and confusing phrases, which it is obvious only that someone mixed in 1989 and 2008 as he wrote the bill. I quote from the reasoning of the Bill's proposal: "The law on judges is passed at a time when our country is going through a difficult period, taking a historic exam to join the EU, while leaving a surviving socio-political system and building a brand new, suitable for the aspirations and needs of its citizens facing European values." Also, the legislator calls for respect for human rights, and the very text of the law mentions the European Court of Human Rights. It is the European Convention on Human Rights that guarantees the right to a fair trial in Article 6. This right, according to all the interpretations, is based precisely on the notion of an independent and impartial court. In this context and on the basis of Article 6. The European Court of Justice has established in the case of Campbell and Fel the following criteria regarding the concept of an independent court. I quote: "When deciding whether an authority can be independent, in particular that is meant by the executive authorities and parties in the dispute, the court had in mind the way in which its members were appointed and the duration of their mandates". So, exactly what's controversial in Articles 100 and 101. It's a bill of law. Then, the European Court concludes in this case that there is also a need to guarantee that there will be no external pressures, as well as the question of whether that body makes an impression of independence. When we analyze the members of 100 and 101. The bill is clear that there is no even impression of the independence of our judiciary. Therefore, this bill should be seen as an example of the violation of the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, and the European Court of Justice practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6988	National MP Srdjan Mikovic, and to prepare Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6989	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we continue to talk about a set of judicial laws, and when we talk about justice, then we talk about courts as the last institutions in our society before which citizens seek to exercise their fundamental rights. That's why I think we should all have a special responsibility when we approach the proposal for a law that should allow not so many conditions to be created for joining Europe, as much as creating conditions for every citizen's rights to come true. Today we're talking about the draft law on judges and the proposal for a law on high-level council of the judiciary, and I'm going to try not to repeat myself much with the Presidarians, I'd just like to underline a few things. First of all, the proposal for a law on judges specifically underlines the need not only to maintain the independence of judges, but to maintain confidence in the independence and impartiality of judges. It is precisely by creating a system in which we can provide conditions for the impartiality of the trial to a greater extent that the rights of our citizens will be exercised. In the bill of law, it was also necessary to take due account of the interests of citizens, to speed up the proceedings, to control the judges themselves, but also of the position of the judges themselves, because doing such a responsible duty in our society means having all the conditions that this procedure can also be done without the influence of politics, tycoon, media and all those who try daily to influence the judges. But what surprised me today is that there is obviously a reverse process in some places. Mr. Palalic here from this pay phone mentioned that the judiciary is calling MPs' clubs. It's something that surprised me. I hope it's a mistake in Mr. Palalic's speech, but if the stenogram is checked, it's spoken from this pay phone. It is precisely in order to make it impossible for the legislative and executive authorities to influence the judiciary, so I also believe that we should first and foremost prevent us as political actors from having an incorrect influence on us as certain members of parts of the judiciary. With regard to the argument of improving these laws, the draft law on judges and the proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary, in any case I am sure that we will all be in a position, and the position and opposition, to consider amendments that will allow for the improvement of such quality proposals of the law. What I would especially point out is that, unlike some previous legal solutions, it is directly included in the legal text in Article 9 first on professional training and training, where the judge is expected to have the right and obligation to professional training and training on the cost of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with special law. In addition to providing for a concrete evaluation of the work of judges by senior judges, the advice formed in higher-level courts will be in a position to evaluate the judges of the lower-degree courts. The period of evaluation of the work of the judges is foreseen, and in any event parallel to that, it is possible in a certain way to enable further professional training, training and improvement of work in our courts. I think that, with everything else, and in particular with the provisions provided for in Articles 27,28 and Article 29 of the Law on Judges, where the duty to notify the President is directly to the High Court, in the sense of breach of the order of reception or notification in the case of the duration of the proceedings, this has already been pointed out by my speakers here, that in the event of a longer period of procedure than the usual explicit provision is made for the notification of a whole set of entities to break the deadlines. On the other hand, Article 29 also established the right of the judge to appeal, and on the other hand, I believe that there is a parallel concern for citizens who are interested in an impartial, quick, effective trial, and I think we can all conclude that there is much that needs to be done right now to improve the situation in general in the judiciary. On the other hand, conditions are created that every judge who believes that a certain procedure has violated his right to appeal and protect his own interests. With regard to the material position of the judge, I think that this is a very important segment of this law, it is elaborated in detail in the members after the 37th member of the law on judges, I believe that one part of the jurisdiction will probably be completed by considering amendments to the draft law on the High Council of the judiciary. As regards the second law that we are considering today in principle, which is the law on the high council of the judiciary, I would point only to two moments, and that is that, among other things, the High Council of the judiciary is also performing the affairs of the judicial administration relating to the establishment of general guidelines for the internal regulation of courts, the conduct of personal papers of judges, judges and court staff and certain tasks relating to the proposal and control of the court budget. So, the high council of the judiciary takes over those responsibilities in terms of controlling the overall situation in the judiciary, but also in that part, which we have not had so far, which is that the high advice of the judiciary proposes the scope and structure of the budgetary resources needed for the current expenditure, as well as that it oversees the spending of these funds. At the same time, the ministry continues to accept, as far as capital investments related to the work of the judicial authorities are concerned, that this is the jurisdiction of the justice ministry. Finally, taking into account all that was said yesterday as regards the exercise of the right of each individual citizen that in all the places where he could so far seek the protection of his own interests, whether it will be called the municipal court, the basic court or the unit of the basic court, all other judicial cases, including submissions of submissions, complaints, complaints, complaints, complaints, complaints, complaints, cases of overtures, works of assurances and other matters, will be conducted in those units. So, in this part, geographically nothing changes for a citizen, and the law on judges and other laws regulating this area of justice will allow for the same places where the interests and rights of citizens have been protected in the past period to be witnessed more effectively, better and the trial of certain possibilities, as has been so far, of certain influences on the side. In that sense, I am sure that after considering amendments to a whole set of judicial laws, we will be able to decide whether we will side with those who want a better situation in the judiciary and vote in favour of this set of judicial laws or we will acknowledge that we are satisfied with the state of justice that is today. I'm sure most of them will be willing to accept this whole set of judicial laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6990	Thank you. Mr. Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure or the replica? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6991	I appeal to the right to reply because my esteemed colleague, Mikovic, mentioned me in his speech. During my presentation, I said that a large number of citizens, precisely because of a new law governing the seat and area of courts and public prosecutors, are calling our parliamentary club. I can't tell you the part you said applied to the judges. Certainly, the large number of materials that we receive from the Serbian Judges' Society, I thought, came to our parliamentary club. I am convinced that what the Association of Judges of Serbia indicates as a lack of this law represents and represents all judges in Serbia. That's what I meant when I pointed out that our parliamentary club is getting materials critical of the bill. Of course, there were no individual calls, nor do I expect it to be, since the Association of Judges of Serbia, as a professional organisation of judges, is a judiciary. It would be good for all of us to just respect what this professional organization, the highest protector of the interest of the judges, wants to point to the government as well. It is not good that this tension is created through the media and through the public, that there is disagreement in the concept of justice between the justice ministry and the Serbian Justice Society. In that sense, it was my exposure. I wanted to explain it to him on this occasion about what a respected colleague, Mikovic, pointed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6992	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6993	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, the SPS-Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of this set of law in the area of the judiciary. According to this agenda, I will specifically refer to the law on the high council of the judiciary. After the law on the High Council of Justice, which was first passed in 2001, and then on five occasions was regulated by amendments and additions, the need to adopt this law proved to be necessary primarily for two reasons: the first reason is that the previous law was incomplete in terms of regulation of matter related to the functioning of the judicial system, and this law, which today is the subject of regulation in a more comprehensive way, which will provide citizens with an additional guarantee that the judicial system will function in one socially acceptable way, since this law highlights the issue of the profession in the first place, which I will talk about later. The second reason is that obligations and tasks, which prove necessary in the normal functioning of the judicial system, are this time entrusted to the jurisdiction of a single tight body, whose composition is dominated by representatives of the courts, i.e. Judges. And by the very fact that there will be no representatives of the public prosecutor's office, because they are receiving special legislation, the domain of the profession will be superior, and on the basis of their experiences and knowledge, they will be able to channel this area of state authorities in the most socially comprehensive way. But let's take our turn. As already provided for in Article 5 of this Act, it is prescribed that of 11 members of the Council, seven of them are elected from the ranks of the holders of judicial functions, i.e. Judge. This fact points to a professionalization of this body. Since the decisions that will be made will have an over-the-counter seal of the profession, the holder of the judicial functions will, i.e. The judge will be able to apply his experience and knowledge on a single field which will be very important for the successful functioning and operation of courts as state authorities in the territory of the whole country, and will give citizens a special quality and opportunity to come to their rights, which are decided by the courts, in a faster and more factual way. The policy impact on the functioning of this body will be minimal, not to say negligible, because of 11 members of the council, only two will be representatives of party definitions, which are the minister of justice and the chairman of the board of directors in the Assembly. This fact is very important because all decisions taken by this body will have a superior seal of the profession, as I have already said, because the largest number of members will be elected from the ranks of the profession, means, which deal with the judiciary, but also through their competent minister and chairman of the board of directors, will have complete information on what is going on. The National Assembly, as the largest body of government in the country, will be able to have insight in one serious way, and no one will enter into the functioning of this judicial system, which has been inadmissible so far. The role of political actors, seen in the representation of political officials, ministers and committee presidents, will be truly marginalised. A very important moment is also the fact that this body will for the first time be freed from the presence of public prosecutors, as I have already said, which will receive its law, and thus the involvement of law enforcement authorities in the functioning of the judiciary will be completely annulled, which is important in the plan of full independence of the Serbian judiciary and guaranteeing certain rights for citizens who are foreseen by the highest state acts. Therefore, simply put, the representatives of the public prosecutors will not have any involvement in the choice and resolution of judges, which is a very important moment for the smooth functioning of the judicial system, which in the future will not have a ballast impact of the law enforcement body in its functioning. As regards the provisions on the functioning of the High Council of the judiciary, I would not particularly comment, since the functioning of the same in structural forms is regulated in one common way for the functioning of the state authorities, and on this subject there is no particular need to spend words and time, since there is nothing new and unusual. What should be mentioned in particular, and after what I have said so far, is that the work of the council's jurisdiction is very broadly defined and determined. Article 13 of this law provides for a whole range of tasks to be carried out by this body, and thus its composition is guaranteed that the functioning of Serbia's judiciary will be raised to a higher quality and higher level. The environment that the council will choose and resolve judges, propose candidates for the selection of judges and decide on conflicts of interest of court-holders indicates that these important items in the formation of judicial authorities will have a healthy genetic and genealogy, as they will be surprised by the attitudes and experiences of narrow-minded people, people of profession, who, on the basis of their knowledge, will choose a professional, suitable fit for performing judicial functions. Secondly, all circumstances relating to the smooth functioning of the judicial system, which are viewed in the numerical composition of the courts, as well as the material resources necessary for their successful and smooth operation and operation, will also be part of the competence of this body. advice. It is also guaranteed that the courts will function in the future without material problems, as the amount of budget resources necessary for the smooth work of the courts will be proposed by this body, which guarantees by its composition that the material base of the courts within Serbia will be correctly defined, and that this factor will not be able to affect the stalemate in the exercise of judicial authority, which took place in the past years for purely banal reasons and led to the paralysing of the courts. We even have examples of citizens feeling it, where trials have been delayed due to lack of material resources. We have an example that the basic material side was insufficient for the functioning of the judiciary because there was no money for calls for hearings. Third, what is most important, that this organ, i.e. The council will give consent to training programmes and all kinds of education of judicial staff, which will also guarantee that judicial staff will eventually pass quality training and gain valuable experience, which will be necessary for the successful functioning of Serbia's judiciary. The summary would ultimately be that the intensity in the functioning of the judiciary which is reflected in the existence of an impartial and independent body that would carry out a whole series of competences necessary for the healthy functioning of the judiciary, which was born by the adoption of the first law in 2001, is this law formed and detailedly regulated, so that one sphere of social life, which is very important for the functioning of the state and society in general, is finally obtained definitely by the formation and for these reasons we propose to the National Assembly to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6994	National MP Milica Radovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6995	Ladies and gentlemen, respected representatives of the ministry, I know that the judicial system needs reform, but this reform should be well designed, realistic and feasible, and not that, under the pretext of reform, an enormous number of municipal courts and public prosecutors should be abolished without any criteria, to create general chaos in the courts themselves and to create a general atmosphere of uncertainty among employees. Yesterday, I was talking about the fact that it's not good that we're discussing these laws today, today's proposal for a law on judges and a bill on the high council of the judiciary, yesterday on the remaining set of judicial laws, without a public debate. The public debate would certainly contribute to the improvement of the texts of these laws and then raise the question whether or not the legislator of this law cared about the amendment of the text of these laws. These bill proposals didn't get a positive assessment from the Venice Commission. It's simple, that claim is false. The positive opinion of the Venice Commission received draft laws on judges and draft laws on the high council of the judiciary, which have been drastically changed compared to those we have today in front of us. I know the situation in the judiciary isn't satisfactory, but we simply can't blame the situation solely for the judges. I think it's wrong that a general picture was created in the public that the situation in the judiciary was generally and in general that there was one corruption, that all judges were unprofessional, unworthy of performing their functions and unconscious. I just can't support that thesis, and for that, I have a series of very good arguments. In the last few days, I talked about what conditions judges do, how many cases they have, how many days in the week, how many courts they have, and in the end we can't take into account when we evaluate the work of the judges themselves. The Belgrade judiciary is the most burdened on this issue, it is overbooked. On average, the judge litigator has about 300 cases in his work, a judge guilty between 150 and 250 cases in his work, and an investigative judge over 500 cases in his work. Then how do you think we can even expect them to act effectively if they don't have time to judge? So they don't have enough court numbers at their disposal. They judge every second or third day. It is very difficult for me to imagine what the judiciary will look like when the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors comes into force, I find it difficult to imagine that the first basic court, to which all four remaining municipal courts in Belgrade will be added. The largest number of objections to these bill proposals have been referred to by the judges themselves and I find that very bad. By attacking re-election, they come from the principle of continuity of the judicial function declared in the Constitution itself and which is the basis of independence of the judiciary itself. Anyone who thinks re-election is a basic condition in order to improve the situation in the judiciary and to get an adequate professional jurisprudence, I think he's making a terrible mistake. It simply takes time to get a good and professional judge. The judge doesn't create himself overnight. Only society and the individual judges have to invest a lot in it. In 1991, when the Law on Judges was passed, a general re-election of judges was carried out; in 1996 and 1997 a judicial cleanup was conducted by 60 judges who opposed the election theft in fact found themselves on the street. After that, a famous list of 187 inadequate judges appeared in public. It's something none of us, I hope, should agree to. There is a classic political conflict with non-eminents and unspeakable judges at work. The DSS has the biggest objection to selecting the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because we consider it based on the provisions of the law, as foreseen here, that they will not pass the re-election. If re-election is already established as a rule, then it must refer to all judges, there is no selective application, they cannot represent the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to be simply privileged. They will ultimately decide on the choice, or re-election of all other judges, so I do not see at all why the billmaker came up with such a provision. It would be good if these proposed laws were presented with basic criteria for selecting the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and of course for re-election of all judges, even in general form, where courts are said to be obliged to propose the best among judges. Then we just wouldn't be in a position to be in Article 52. We thus interpret the bill as a conclusion or as a conclusion, that the parliamentary majority will be able to choose similar judges who will later decide on the choice of all other judges in all other types and degrees of justice. What is also unacceptable, according to the DSS, is the idea that, through the proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary, the idea of the existence of an autonomous province. First, this provision is not a constitutional provision. I think there are two autonomous provinces in Serbia, both Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. This cannot be undermined, especially because it is easy to conclude that the representatives of the government are at a very delicate moment for the state, when we are struggling to preserve its territorial integrity, simply accept the fact that Kosovo and Metohija as an autonomous province do not exist. Also, I believe that the deadlines for selecting the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are unjustly short, and on the other hand, we believe that the term of office is too long for the same first term of the High Council of Justice. It is said here in article 55 that there is a possibility that it will last five years. We believe that this provision is in direct coordination with the provision of Article 57, which says the election process of members of the permanent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be implemented by July 2010. Finally, I believe that all of these bill proposals that we had the opportunity to discuss yesterday and yesterday have a series of illogicalities, a series of bad, unfounded, superficial solutions and that it would be best if they were withdrawn from the assembly procedure for one further and fundamental development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6996	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. VLATKO RATAKOVIĆ: Dear Presidents, Honorable Presidency, Honored Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we are continuing today's debate on a package of very important laws important to our society, important to our citizens. These are laws that cause great attention and analysis, in the first place of the professional public, so judges, prosecutors, lawyers, lawyers, but no less attention is paid to Serbian citizens who closely monitor the work of this parliament to pass the law. Few citizens did not have in their lives contact with the court, either as a party to the proceedings, whether as a witness, or as a person who comes to the prosecution of any act, contract, will or any other document in court. We of the DS and the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia believe that this, without a path, is what I can say, revolutionary laws that will comprehensively and permanently reform our judiciary. We are now hitting the foundations of a system of justice that will exist and perfect in the next decades. Today we are discussing a united discussion of these two laws. Yesterday we discussed the law on the regulation of courts, on the network of courts, and that is what is very important for the professional public and for us MPs. But for every citizen who is a legal layman, the key word in all these laws and the key concept is actually a judge. The judge, therefore, is a person, woman or man, who, in any particular case in court, decides on some subjective right of an individual citizen's name and last name, whether it is a dispute between the two citizens, whether it is a dispute between citizens and the state, whether it is a dispute between companies, etc., whether it is a criminal procedure, of course. As representatives of citizens in this House, which is the most representative body and holder of the legislative and constitutional authority, we should ask one question that actually the citizens of Serbia are asking, and this is the question of what kind of judge do we want to have in our judicial system? What kind of person is that? What qualities must he have? What kind of performance does he have to have? On that basis, we can appreciate what its effect will be. I think there's one general consensus social that a judge has to be a person who's independent, who's free, who's capable of serving his own senses and making impartial decisions, all based on his own assessment of facts and his own understanding of the law, without any limitations. So, without any restrictions, without any influence, threats and intervention, any political powers, any media, any tycoon, any other. The only limit, the only framework in every judge's decision, whether it is a litigation, criminal proceedings, decisions in outsider cases, executives, is the principle of justice and justice and the conscience of each judge. The judge must be restricted solely by the Constitution and by law, and all these traits of the judge as a person, as an individual, I believe that you share my opinion, too, must have. The law before us, the law on judges and the law on the high council of the judiciary, firstly the law on judges, contains one instrument, one set of mechanisms, a series of procedures, a series of norms that will just allow us to get the judge I just described, the judge of such a professional, psychological and ethical profile. I will sublime everything that is crucial to me and what my predecessors have said and what is contained in the bill of this law. Therefore, this law contains extremely strict and high-quality standards concerning the participation of the judicial authority in the selection process of judges. It's a newspaper compared to existing legislation. The independence of the judiciary is given firstly by the active role of the judicial authority in the course of the judge's election procedure. The continuity of the judge's office is one important principle, one important principle that this law contains. Residency is very important for every judge. It's this immutability of a judge who gives him a guarantee and security that the judicial authority, the court, the president of the court can't move him to another place. The immunity of the judge is also an important institute, i.e. a substitute. It is somewhat different from the immunity enjoyed by the MPs and members of the government, but is very important for the independence and independence of the judge. The irreplaceability of the annual schedule is very important for the stability in the work of each judge, the distribution of cases by the principle of the so-called accidental judge, and what is particularly important, it is the material position of the judge. Since the government of Zoran Djindjic in 2001, I believe that all governments have done a lot to improve the judge's material position and that today's receipts or salaries will not say that they are too high, but they are certainly not too low, and, as far as I know, about 1,000 euros and 80,000 dinars are now moving for the judge of the municipal court. Of course, the law contains standards that concern the judge's pensions, so when he ends his working life, it's also one of the elements that guarantees their independence. The law also contains provisions, very high-quality, on the incompatibility of judicial calls and especially as a newspaper disciplinary responsibility of the judge. The judicial authority is independent, but it must be limited by law, and the conduct and work of the judge must be sanctioned unless the judge meets the criteria laid down by the law, or the rules of procedure on the work of the court. This disciplinary procedure, or disciplinary responsibility, is one of the measures for unprofessional conduct, the unconscious conduct of judges in their work. What is also important to point out is the right of the judges to association, meaning their association to preserve and improve an independent position. And, most importantly, it is the right and obligation of the judges to perfect. So, perfecting judges, monitoring court rules, announcing law-making law on the judicial academy is also important. Finally, to say that someone would be a judge isn't enough to have a law school, passed a judicial exam and any work biography. The judge must be a person, it must be integrity. He has to be the alpha and omega in the courtroom he's sitting in. Above it can be neither the party, nor the prosecutor, nor the expert, nor the witness, it is the judge who manages the process, which makes decisions and judges must, based on the Constitution, laws and principles of free assessment of evidence and security, make decisions. We simply have to enter a phase of the existence of the judicial system, where we will have far more effective protection of subjective rights of citizens, where citizens will not wait for judicial verdicts for five or ten years, where according to the European criteria of the case will end in two years, and criminal cases within a year. This law that we are discussing, the law on judges and the law on high court, gives exceptional importance and contributes to such a declared goal. That is why the DS and the MEP Group for European Serbia will support such legal solutions. Finally, I would like to say that the condition for the rule of law state is all that has been declared by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all European documents that we have signed and ratified, an independent judiciary, independent of political and executive authority, but depending on the Constitution and the law, and that this independence is not understood in one deformed and extremely irrational way that judges can be independent of both common sense and security work. Of course, it is a minority that exists in our judicial system and I would also like to say that the general choice of judges is fully in line with the Constitutional Law, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's not about any lustration, it's just that professional and quality judges will continue, or be elected for such an important state function as a judicial function. National MP Lydia Dimitrijevic. LIDija DIMITRIVIĆ: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have two draft laws of a total of seven from a set of judicial laws. The debate was united because the authorities were in a hurry, as she waited a minute to twelve to comply with the laws with the Constitution. However, these laws will apply from 1 January 2010. The real reason for this haste is the reform of the judiciary, as it is one of the conditions for Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status in 2009. The government has already boasted that a set of judicial laws has received a positive opinion from the Council of Europe, the EU and the Venice Commission, and that Serbia will indeed get membership candidate status in 2009. Experience with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is one of the freshest, tells us that apparently great European friends cannot be trusted at all. They keep setting new conditions. They ask for more and more, and in return, empty promises. You Serbs apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement unilaterally, as the EU does so. Get your laws in line and wait. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 142(2) guarantees that courts are independent and independent in their work and judges based on the Constitution, law and other general acts when provided for by law, general rules of international law and approved international contracts. The minister of justice said the election of judges will no longer be in parliament's jurisdiction, but will be done by the high council of the judiciary, which guarantees judicial independence, and the mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group today said now that the first time the judges will be elected independently of politics. The draft law on the high council of the judiciary, Article 5, says that the council has 11 members, of which three members are in position, and that is - the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, elected by the National Assembly, the minister responsible for the judiciary, who was of course elected by the National Assembly, the chairman of the National Assembly's board of directors and eight election members, who are also elected by the National Assembly. If we add to this a provision of the Law on Judges in Article 51, where it is said that – The National Assembly selects a judge who is first elected among candidates who have proposed a high council of the judiciary – it is clear that the choice of judges depends on most of these. Of 126 votes of the National Assembly. So much for judicial independence and independence from the legislative and executive authorities. A set of proposed judicial laws provides for the judiciary to be made more effective, according to the Justice Ministry. The ministry's state secretary said the law provided for deadlines in which regular cases should be terminated as a rule. They expect that after the introduction of the new system, the first-degree procedure should not last more than two years, and second-degrees from six months to a year. These claims, that the government intends to make the judiciary more effective, are contrary to what it says in the proposal for a law on judges. In this regard, Article 28(1) states - the judge is obliged to inform the President of the court why the first-degree procedure has not been completed within one year and then informs him every three months of the further development of the procedure. According to the current Law on Judges, in Article 25, it is said - the judge is obliged to inform the President of why the first-degree procedure has not been completed within six months and then informs him every month of the further development of the procedure in time. This deadline has been extended two or three times, and thus the story of a more efficient judiciary falls into the water. I must point out that in today's discussion, MEPs described this as the advantage of this bill. This just suggests that objects placed in drawers will remain in them. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 146 says -- that the judicial function is permanent, the exception is only in the first election. With this new bill, the judge will have to go back to the election and I think it is reasonable to suspect that those judges who are at the will of the current authorities will be elected. What will happen to many judges who have spent their working lives doing their job honorably, professionally and honestly, and not exactly at the will of the DS, we will see.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u6999	Dear fellow Members of the People, I address you, as well as the competent state authorities, using my parliamentary law from the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 225 and 226, and I ask all these competent authorities, especially the police and prosecutors, why are they questioning all the companies that have ever done business with Ratko Mladic's son? Do the families of the Hague indictees have any right to live, do they have the right to work, do they have to be arrested, killed here in the country, and not allowed to be treated, or to receive, or to work? Are all these human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that we talked about today being hit or not? Is that why anyone should answer? What kind of a hick is that on businessmen? They're in indirect danger. I even think they made commercials. I believe that Vujic will do much better than she has done so far and that all Serbian patriots will drink only Vujic water. That's gotta be the way it is. But me and the SRS are seriously concerned about the behaviour of our authorities towards the Ratko Mladic family. What's this Darko Young guy's fault that he can't have his own company, that he can't work? This is a free country, I guess anyone can decide who to deal with and under what conditions? Here they even say how much millions he's made, and if he's earned it, and where does he suspect he's helping his father as a son? Where's the evidence for that besides insinuation? Why are the neighbors of the Mladic family being detained? Why is it that everyone in the area who can't live normally can't communicate because they can't talk in the bedroom either, since everything that can be installed for listening is installed in the nearby building? I ask you to deal with this issue a little bit, because first of all, we are here to fight for the protection of all human rights, including the right to work, the right to live, which I think is seriously endangered, not only by the family of Ratko Mladic but also by other families of the Hague indictees, but also by those who do business with his son's company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7000	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Your task force has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7001	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Department of Justice, I am still fortunate that the minister of justice is not here right now, but still, the associates will pass it on to her. The moment I asked some questions in the afternoon debate, the minister of justice was later when I was not there to clarify my questions. Because of what she said -- "According to this, it cannot be said that the Ministry of Justice did not take care that Serbia's judiciary exists in KIM territory, as well as in the rest of Serbia's territory," I think it can be said. If there's only one remaining court of law out of 23, I don't think that's a serious suggestion. If only one of the 17 basic courts remains, it is not a serious proposal either. If only one of the five higher courts remains, it's not a serious proposal either. If the trade court doesn't exist at all in KIM and in the AP Vojvodina Five, I don't think that's a serious proposal either. You know very well that payment traffic is quite normal with AP Kosovo. You went one more step further, you transferred him from the King to Nis. It's another burden for the citizens of KIM. Out of the seven main prosecutors, there was only one and only one of the higher ones. Do not say that the proposal is the same as in other parts of Serbia. Obviously, as far as the Department of Justice is concerned, it's on KIM with this proposal minimized, because you know exactly where Strpce is, where Gorazdevac is, where Gjilane is, where is Big Hotch. All of this needs to happen in Kosovo Mitrovica. You know how it travels there and how security is limited there, how all those from all these territories will come to the courts, the ones you suggested everything in Kosovo Mitrovica. In the afternoon debate, much has been said about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Some said the constitution was bad, others defended him that he was good, and others around there are now few to stay away from it, so they don't respect him, regardless of what 223 MPs voted for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Whether he likes it or not, that's one story, and the other is, while this constitution exists, the way it is, we're all bound to respect him. Not to do so, he also speaks of this proposal for a bill on the high council of the judiciary. In Article 22, when it comes to the representation of courts, Article 1 indent 6 says literally - one of the courts in the territory of the autonomous province. Article 30, paragraph 2 - i.e. from courts in the territory of the Autonomous Province. Article 52 paragraph 1 - from the territory of the Autonomous Province. Seriously, almost all of these laws are being passed by an autonomous province. That the Constitution and the preamble of the Constitution, when it comes to KIM, was harshly violated, is also referred to in Article 182 paragraph 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which Decidantly says -- the Republic of Serbia has the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. What do you think of this proposal? Are you still going to claim that you did not violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? If in all these laws you are pulling an autonomous province, and this Article 182 is clear that it is two autonomous provinces. Is that how you think you're protecting the interests of the citizens and of us living on KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7002	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7003	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have listened very carefully to all the discussions for two days and I want to clarify one dilemma immediately: for the state of justice is a responsibility on everyone, not just on judges. The general climate that existed and the circumstances that existed in our society, wars, sanctions, isolation, unfulfilled expectations, all of this reflected in the work of this very important state institution. I think very qualified, on behalf of my SPO party, I can say that many judges work in extremely difficult conditions, that they have offices three by three, that they judge, that they make decisions, that they send calls, that they receive parties, etc. Many fellow MPs do not have tables to sit in the courtrooms, to place their material, but have to sit on chairs and case files to hold hands. It's a very difficult position for the auxiliary staff. Dactilographs make very modest wages, the office's employee's responsibility is enormous, and their salaries are very low. No matter what, I think most of the judges are doing their job with honor. What we're trying to do now is, it's a systemic step forward, a systemic step towards a new time, and we all agreed that our situation in the judiciary is not good. Each party has its own proposal, some of which do not have their own proposal, but is therefore criticised that this bad situation is not changing. That's why in the 1990s the SPO asked to be done in the country what is now done, to protect the judge, in addition to asking him for dignity, to create systemic conditions for him to be a gentleman, to make progress in the profession, to protect him from all external influences, to provide them with material-technical conditions worthy of his call, and only then to seek responsibility. It's the judge's law that predicts all this and much more what my esteemed predecessors have said. If we want to be a member of the EU, we will not be taken to the EU, and we will not benefit if we are EU members, this is the situation in the judiciary. The cosmetic changes since 2000, we've seen that nothing significant or good in the work of the judiciary has been done. Many courts, small courts, work extraordinaryly. I only mention the Municipal Court in Ariel, which in the last three months solved 552 cases, or, for example, the Municipal Court in Osecina, has extraordinary material and technical conditions for work. Therefore, the Court of Justice and the Judges of the First and Second Municipal Court have several hundred objects in work and very difficult working conditions. Why yesterday, on behalf of the SPO, I asked for the government and the competent ministry to work on the preparation of the law on lawyerry and on the provision of legal action and to pass a new modern law on judicial warlocks. Didn't we testify a few years ago in Panchev and Smeder's territory a group of respected court-laws, primarily medical professions, due to abuses in the area of pension and disability insurance? Here's how it got settled in Germany. We know that many people who enjoy disability pensions have acquired it in an illegal way. In Germany, every few years a review is carried out, the users of disability pensions have no idea who the court expert is going to examine and the way we are going – that the party and the lawyer do not know who the judge will be – so should be done with the court experts. We're witnessing that an organized crime group has almost been caught who ended up in front of a special court. There are also traffic cops and court experts from the territory of Vrbasa, Novi Sad, Belgrade and Obrenovac. They even made records of non-existent traffic accidents, caused high levels of damage and charged them from insurance organisations. In Germany, in one period, but based on a networked information system, several private surgical clinic owners, they all lost one piece of their finger for a very short period of time, but the most important part they needed just to do that profession. Based on a large number of samples, it has been investigated and it has been seen to be the greatest abuses in the judiciary in the relationship between a judicial attorney-owner of a private clinic. When I talked about cosmetic changes, I also thought about a lot of court proceedings that burden our public. To my surprise, I've been waiting for if any of my colleagues, I respect that all the problems we've been talking about are important, but whether someone will pay attention to the greatest Christian value, to life and to the position of the damaged. In the opinion of the SPO, and for this we have provided valid evidence, due to the involvement of state authorities in life deprivation, particularly Ivan Stambolic, four SPO officials, the attempted murder of Mr Vuk Draskovic in Budva and Ibarska masteral – will someone look back at these processes and abuses committed by court authorities. Judge Bojan Misic has not acted in a legal manner twice according to mandatory instructions of the Supreme Court of Serbia, has not sentenced the maximum prison sentence of 40 years, but 15 years, and for the second time in the history of the judiciary, the Supreme Court had to take the case and judge it, after almost 10 years of trial and one rejuvenation and the killing of victims. It is now an opportunity for the depoliticized judiciary to choose among themselves the best personnel. We will see if colleagues, for example, will suggest that Judge Bojan Misic be again, which is absolutely unacceptable for us from the SPO. Until our society makes that clear distance between crime and what is not a crime, we will have a phenomenon that girls in puberty or girls are proud to praise that their youngsters are criminals. They often boast that their youngsters are judges, prosecutors, lawyers, etc. We also saw some lawyers' behavior toward the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. Without any shame, they embrace them in front of the cameras, brave, making them heroes. We don't think this is just a matter of justice, this is a problem and the media, and the National Assembly, and all the other social institutions and building an absolutely new system of values. The SPO wants to create a system of values in which everyone's life and property will be absolutely protected, in which human life will indeed be and remain the greatest value and in which all those who act in a different way will be absolutely sanctioned. I'd say something else. We are now seeking to create some specialised departments within the judiciary, which is very good. In several hundred cases, in which various types of art was performed, I only once had the opportunity to ask the judge the question of an expert. Believe me, in all other cases of the judge, no matter what the findings say and the opinion of the experts, there are no questions for the court expert, and in the explanation of the verdict, the phrase is regularly repeated that the expert gave an opinion and opinion in accordance with the rules of the profession, etc. In EU countries there are financial courts, family courts, agricultural courts, courts for labour disputes, trade, administrative etc. Then the judge, who is somewhat closely specialised, can rightly rule matter, make a proper and legal decision within a reasonable time frame. The right is a broad area and we can't expect judges, especially from judges in smaller places, who work and investigate, and litigation and executions, to be specialists in this way for all specialties. The SPO will vote with great satisfaction for these laws, and since these laws are truly the best basis for a stable judiciary. From the people who will be personnel and bearers of these reforms, above all by the judges and prosecutors, we expect the trust given to them by these laws to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7004	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, and to prepare Vuk Dincic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the bill, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, just one little clarification, or one addition to my morning discussion. Here, you didn't chair, I brought a package of DS activists, led by your ministers and other officials, to share in the territory of the Ruma municipality, and I forgot to show you the toothbrush in that package. Here, I recommended to Mrs. Comic, when they visit you Javier Solana and Olli Rehn to negotiate Serbia's entry into the EU for about 50 or 100 years, so in breaks when they eat and eat those pastures, ajvar, paprika and jam you packed in that package, give them this toothbrush, and wash your teeth. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but I'm going to try to make fundamental remarks on this bill. Mr. Cossic, I'm talking to you, since I assume you've been most involved in writing this proposal. Reasons for the adoption of laws under emergency procedure: "The adoption of this law by emergency procedure is proposed in the light of the provisions of Articles 6, 7 and 15. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which sets deadlines for the education of judges and the selection of judges, as well as a general deadline for the harmonisation of laws with the Constitution, and in order to avoid the adverse consequences of the work of the courts and to pick judges in accordance with the Constitution as soon as possible." If we put aside the language of this formulation, Mr. Cosic, I'm surprised that you and your associates at the Ministry of Justice did not call for Article 5(2). Constitutional law, which is actually much more important. Here it reads: "In the course of the second session, following the government's election, the National Assembly will comply with the Constitution of laws relating to the application of the provisions of the Constitution, to courts and public prosecutors, and to laws governing the organisation and jurisdiction of the courts, the election and termination of the office of the president of the courts and judges, the High Council of the judiciary, the organisation and jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the election and termination of the office of public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors and the State's chief prosecutors. So, first of all, you had to keep this constitutional law standard in mind when you wrote this law, but you've artificially avoided it. These laws had to be passed during the first half of 2007. Today, in November 2008, the previous government is also very late in the application of the Constitutional Law. The question is, who will be responsible for the fact that the courts provided for the applicable laws in Serbia do not exist? A set of judicial laws, which were designated European in 2001, as reform, as democratic, as some miracle unseen that is nowhere in the world, most of its provisions are not applied. You don't have any court appeals yet, you don't have an administrative court, you don't have a Supreme Cassation Court. At the end of 2005, the ruling coalition in this assembly passed the Law on Violations. The Law on Violations was to be implemented as of 1 January 2007. It has not been applied since 1 January 2007, you have continued to apply the old 1989 Law on Violations, in a way that has been unrecorded in a well-organized state. Namely, the internal instruction of the former justice minister has suspended the application of the Law on Infringements, allowing the old 1989 Law to continue to apply. Now the basic question, before we begin the debate on the proposal of this law and on all other judicial laws, who will bear responsibility for the fact that you have since 2001 promised a new, democratic, well-organised European judiciary, and that there is now, at the end of 2008, not yet. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I find it unclear that Article 1. The bill -- the judge judges and judges on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts, confirmed international contracts, and then the score, the general rules of international law and by his conscience. I don't know how a judge in the Republic of Serbia can even be in a position to apply the accepted rules of international law. You see, Mr. Cosic, in Article 29. The International Court of Justice's statutes numbered sources of international public law, among other things, the widely accepted principles of civilised peoples. You didn't seem to understand it the best way. So these are sources of international public law that regulate relations between sovereign states. Here we are talking about the application of general legal acts in individual situations by judges in the Republic of Serbia. First, the question raised is what are the general rules of international law, and on the other hand, if those rules exist, it is absolutely impossible to apply them in the internal legal system when they regulate relations between sovereign states. I'd like to draw your attention to something that may not be the department of justice's jurisdiction, but it has something to do with your ministry. In Article 43, you counted the conditions for selecting judges, among other things, to graduate from law school. I draw your attention, Mr. Cosic, to both you and the Minister who is not present right now, that in the last few years in Serbia you have a flood of various universities, including law schools. They are all placed in the same basket with the Faculty of Law, which was founded by the Republic of Serbia. It is enough to find several businessmen who have money, start a college, and it is immediately the same rank as the oldest Faculty of Law in Serbia, Belgrade, but also other state-run law colleges that have a very rich tradition, in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis etc. You have, say, a case in Novi Sad, imagine, a college called the University of Directors. Now I'm interested in what titles a man gets when he graduates from college, a graduate director or something. You have similar colleges in the field of law. Technically, such a man is a graduate lawyer, formally, but basically he has such holes in knowledge that he can't be no judge, but I doubt he can be a reference in some farming community that's taking raspberries somewhere in the Woodland. It's also a great danger you have to think about. There are a lot of private law schools in the United States, but what the Americans came up with. You can graduate from law school in any American town in America, but in order to be registered in the U.S. bar register, you have to finish some of the prestigious law schools that have existed in the United States for several hundred years. So the state leaves you free, you can finish anything, but you can't make a public call if you haven't completed only appropriate law schools that have a reputation, or a proper scientific reputation. Here, for lack of time just to say a few sentences about this famous disciplinary responsibility of the judges, which you now represent here as some divine achievement. First, disciplinary offences processed in Article 90. The bill to this extent is widely laid down that in practice every judge will be disciplinaryly responsible if it is celery for some political reasons. Simply, from case to case, it will determine what some of these disciplinary offences mean. Here, look, an unwarranted delay in making decisions. What does that mean? This means that, in addition to an unwarranted one, there is also a legitimate delay in making decisions. Then where are the criteria? When is the judge unwarranted and justifiably late in making a decision? Then, unwarranted non-scheduling of the hearing or the search, the same very broad formulation. Well, then, unwarranted delay in proceedings. It doesn't mean anything again in practice. Then, apparently incorrect treatment of participants in court proceedings and court employees. To comment on court decisions, proceedings or cases in means of public information in a way contrary to the law and to the Rules of Procedure. Unwarranted non-compliance with mandatory training programmes, etc. Check this out, breach of the Ethics Code provisions to a greater extent. Is there some scale in the Department of Justice, so you'll measure what's bigger and what's less, so if it's a minor measure, okay, he didn't commit a disciplinary violation, but if that cantar weighs, then he committed a disciplinary violation. So, there are too wide-ranging disciplinary violations, and in practice they will interpret as anyone who is in a position to apply these provisions will. Finally, one pure legal complaint. There are no rules of disciplinary procedure anywhere, there are disciplinary violations, there are disciplinary sanctions, there are disciplinary authorities. What are the rules of the disciplinary procedure on which to determine if any of the judges have actually committed this disciplinary violation? Madam Minister, there are no such disciplinary rules in this bill. Does this mean that it will form from case to case or be formulated by some special act, or will be prescribed by the minister. So, what's this about? To finish, I stay with what I said, you now, if you want an independent and successful judiciary, you can even have it under these laws. There is no political will. You can also pass this law and thousands of other laws, until the political regime in Serbia changes the situation in the judiciary will remain the same as it is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7006	Thank you. Mr. Wolf Dincic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7007	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, before us are two extremely important laws, one is the law on judges, the other is the law on the high council of the judiciary. On the one hand, we have an obligation to reform our judicial system and our judiciary under the new Constitution of Serbia. On the other hand, Serbia is on the path of Serbia's European integration and entry into the European Union. Nevertheless, it is important for us to create a modern European system of judiciary, a modern law that will make a significant contribution to the development of democratic society in us. But it's very important, and I think that might be the most important thing, to restore our citizens' trust in the court and the judges. According to many of the research that exists, 80% of our citizens think that the judiciary is inefficient, corrupt, that the processes last very long, etc. That is why it is important to pass such important and reform laws, which will restore the trust of our citizens in court and in judges at all. As for the law on judges, the law here had in mind important European standards in the area of the judiciary, such as the principal principle of independence of the judiciary adopted in Milan in 1985. Also the European Law on Judges of 1998, which sets particularly high standards regarding the independence, independence and impartiality of judges. In particular, I will turn to some of the newspapers that this law adopts, which is the primary evaluation of the work of the judges, which is particularly defined in the law on judges, and represents an important newspaper in this law and where a directly senior court will evaluate its colleagues in a lower court. What's important, especially for the judicial branch of power, is the budget. So far, the judge's salary has been determined by the government. This law stipulates that salaries will be set out in the Budget Law, and what is important is that only an independent judiciary is to create one independence in that direction and the possibility that executive power cannot affect the determination of what the budget will be for judges by a decision of the government. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also provides for re-election of judges. That's something we'll have to do next year. I don't see any reason why all judges who have done their job well that in the future they will continue to do their job, it is the Constitution that obliges us to carry out this re-election, and then the High Council of the Judiciary will elect judges and, in fact, judges will choose themselves, be excluded from the National Assembly and it is important to execute this depolitisation of the judiciary. The important element here is so-called. The disciplinary responsibility of the judges, which I think is very important, and that the disciplinary responsibility of the judge can also be exercised by the citizens themselves, later, of course, is decided by the High Council of the judiciary whether a judge will be resolved. It is particularly important that here every citizen can point to any irregularity that exists in some court decisions, in the functioning of the court, etc. The question has often been raised, when it comes to the Law on Judges, that no public debate has been held here. I will remind you that in 2006, a working group was educated and certain principles were given on the basis of which it should draft this law. In 2007, a kind of working version of the law on courts was made, directed to all international organisations, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe which made its remarks, and then a final bill was made, which was given and forwarded here to the National Assembly. As for the law on the high council of the judiciary, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia establishes the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors as a guarantee of independence and independence of judges and courts, i.e. public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. The High Council of the judiciary, I think it's very important, has full financial independence and has the resources in accordance with the law on its own. Also, Article 13 defines the high jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, among other things, the election and resolution of judges, proposes the scope and structure of the budget necessary for the work of courts, for ongoing expenditures and oversees their spending in accordance with the law. Also, independence in the judiciary is reflected in the provisions governing the process of declaring themselves members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. And here is also a kind of public debate that has been launched since 2006, directed to the Serbian and Venice Commission Judges Society, which has made certain objections and which this government has adopted, so that this law also meets certain standards, especially European standards that we all seek. When it comes to the Society of Judges of Serbia, I simply must stress it, especially to express a kind of concern, because the president of the Serbian Society has given a statement that is very scandalous to me, which is that it urged judges not to respect this law that will be brought here, and any judge who respects this law will be expelled from the Serbian Society, which I think is a scandal. It definitely says that we have to make radical changes in the judiciary itself. Finally, I would like to call on all MPs to vote in favour of this law because this helps to fully reform justice, create a democratic society and restore trust in the court and the judges and the entire justice system.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7008	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to the judiciary, the Serbian Radical Party considers the judiciary to be one of the largest pillars of state power in each country, and so should be in our country. Above all, in the sphere of protection of the interests of our citizens and their legal certainty, we in the judiciary have a negative selection in the selection of legal holders. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the impartiality and independence of the judiciary can only come if we have an autonomous establishment in the judicial system, without the influence and interference of the executive authority and politicians, especially political parties that are in power, which involve judicial interference. When it comes to selecting legal holders, I have one big remark, why it is done, I have never said it, but I have a lot of contacts with my community and they say so, why discrimination is being made against our Roma, whose legitimate representative I am here and as a member of the Serbian Radical Party. In my opinion, there is a clean discrimination against the Roma, given the indisputable fact that we in Serbia almost have Roma representatives in the judiciary. We have more than 800,000 Roma in Serbia, according to statistics we have 108 thousand. Why does this microcry, I don't know, but I think it's in a democratic Serbia, where democracy is to be transformed, it's not allowed to give a nation that exists in this country the right state of its number. On many occasions, I have sought in judicial institutions a reception regarding drastic violations of human rights of justice towards the Roma community, but so far there has been no answer. I ask the question: is there again one discrimination against me as a member of the Serbian Radical Party or is there discrimination being made because I am Roma? Under a multi-party and pluralist system, this is a democratic state, no more committees, we have more parties in parliament, positions and opposition. So I wonder as the MP of Roma nationality, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, when I cannot come to the institutions of the judiciary, how can my ordinary Roma come and ask for some help when they are being discriminated and violated by human rights in the judiciary. I wonder if we Roma are outsiders or if we're territorial citizens. As far as I know, and everyone here, we're admitting in this country, another state we don't have, we're recognised as a national minority. Why can't we seek our rights, nor as representative of the SRS, the Roma community, be able to express some things that are drastically broken towards the Roma community? I think it's hard and inadmissible. National minorities in Serbia have their own representatives, even in the highest judicial institutions, and we Roma are not represented on a proportionate basis or on any other basis. The SRS is of the opinion that Roma must have their elected representatives as holders of judicial functions. Since we Roma have a large number of lawyers who can be judges or prosecutors, we have one judge in Old Paz and one judge in Mladenov. One judge is a longtime judge, a successful judge, but he can't make any progress. This one's a little younger in Mladenov, but it's also where it is. This, ladies and gentlemen, I especially want to point out for the reason that a number of our Roma citizens are in court. It's usually the most severe punishment for the Roma. This can be confirmed from statistics, which is true. Therefore, the SRS has a very correct relationship with the Roma. The SRS has such a relationship with all national minorities in Serbia, which is also confirmed by the large number of members of all members of the national minorities in the SRS. I was proposed by the SRS in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so I was the first minister in one government, such as Roma, first in Europe. This is proof of what kind of democratisation policy, without discrimination, conducted by the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj. Reform to the judiciary and judicial authorities must also count on national minorities if we want to implement democracy and equality of all citizens in our country. We're citizens of this country, we're not looking for anything, we're only looking for what belongs to us under the Constitution and the law of this country. Let's go back to the National Minorities Act and their rights. Let's go back to the European declarations that the recommendations are mandatory, not what they say are optional, but mandatory. You yourself know that we have the right, that there are a number of national minorities there, and the Roma community has the right to autonomy. Please take care and respect all citizens equally, because it is a democracy in our Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7010	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic-Korac. Let Milan Avramovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7011	Dear President, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, I have come forward on this item of the agenda, but first of all, I would like to point out once again the necessity of implementing a reform of the judicial system with us. Every man has the greatest pain of injustice and the inability to exercise his rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, our laws and international acts. Many researches have shown, and we are also witnessing that the justice system in the previous period did not work very well - that the proceedings before the judicial authorities lasted long, both first-degree and legal medicines; that it was long waiting for the decisions made; that there were many outdated criminal cases; that the judges were not evenly burdened by certain courts. This slowed down the citizens to come to their justice and to solve problems they had to solve before the judicial authorities. It happened that sometimes justice and justice were not on the same side. Publicly, not without a basis, the opinion is that corruption is largely represented in the judiciary. For all these reasons, it is necessary for the need to comply with the new Constitution and for a number of other reasons to implement a fundamental reform of the judiciary. The set of laws in this area that are sitting before us is based on a detailed analysis of the current rules, practices in our judiciary, based on the adopted National Strategy and the use of positive experiences of other democratic countries with well-developed judicial systems. The regulation and functioning of the judiciary under the proposed laws will allow citizens and legal persons to effectively exercise their rights. As for the proposal for a law on judges, I will not convince the provisions of the same, because I believe that we have all studied it well here, and Madam Minister, and the MPs before me have talked enough about certain provisions. I just want to say that my opinion - that this issue in law is comprehensive and detailed. I was a little surprised that a lot of controversy in the public caused a reaction to the general choice of all judges under the new law. I've worked alone for ten years in a way in the judiciary, as a lawyer, and I've had the opportunity to make sure that there are honest and honest judges who are worthy of performing that function. I believe that such a general choice of judges under the new law is necessary, not only because by law all courts are new, but that such a new choice should be of honor and confirmation of the success of the work of all judges who are re-elected and should be proud. I would also like to emphasise the importance of all the principles envisaged and, in particular, to point out the intended right of the judge to professional training and training, to the system of evaluation of the work of the judges and the elaborated basis and procedure for the disciplinary responsibility of the judges. Based on my years of legal experience, I realized that life is always more inventive than law. For this reason, there are no perfect laws for all to be satisfied and that the best laws over time must be brought into line and put up with changes and complements. However, I believe that the set of the law on justice that we are considering at this session gives the best and most rational solutions that can be applied to us at this time, which will improve our judicial system to be independent and the kind of democratic and developed society, and what will enable citizens to exercise their rights effectively and impartially, and to have equality and security in front of judicial authorities. That is why MEPs will vote for these laws for European Serbia, and I call on other MPs to support them, to allow citizens a judicial system that will be effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7012	I thank Mrs. Hasanovic. The word has Milan Avramovic, a national MP. Here you go. Then Petar Jojic, Mirko Munjic, Dragan Stevanovic, Tomislav Ljubenovic and Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must conclude one fact that DS MPs have begun to take part in the debate and that it is probably on the task, because all MPs are telling in the opening part the same story, how reformist this law is, how much it is worth, how good it is, how it develops the judiciary, how it introduces order. And don't forget the fact that you've been in power since 2000, and as much as you've been praising this law now, it means that this previous one was bad, and you've adopted that one with the same story when you adopted that bad law, which you are now most critical of by praising this one. We've heard the same terms, same terminology, and you've participated in the debate. So what's very important is that we don't discuss the Constitution here or some bill that requires so much attention and so much praise, but it's essentially something else. As a result, these draft laws are no special epochal solution. So, in the judiciary, as some promoters say, including MPs, I will prove it to you through members who are biting each other, who are biting each other's hair with a story that you've taken out of this pay phone. So, the meaning of the law in the area of justice is really to improve the situation and that's why about 245 amendments have been submitted to just a few laws in this package, which you say is so good. I think this number speaks enough. The next thing I'd like to draw your attention to you - that to improve any situation in the judiciary, certain facts that you've neglected here must be understood, which is to increase the legality and regularity of the work of the judicial authorities. There is a small number of suspended decisions of first-degree courts, high urgency in the trial, etc. In order for all of this to be done, dear colleagues, you must have certain personnel, certain people, not party people, not party judges, but purely judicial personnel. The frames are where, most of all, the dependence on the legality and efficiency of the courts. What I would, as one remark, give from the previous period is that the good President of the Court, for years and for the results of the best court in Serbia, is the District Court in Obrenovac, once said, and now that is lawyer Milan Gričić, himself and all his associates, in order for the real judge to be, he becomes a victim, and if you want to be, you have to work at least two to three hours at home every day. You have here made one contradiction from the real judge, for example, whose results have been the best in Serbia for years, which is the District Court in Obrenovac. What did you do? You've brought in a Article 30 that allows all judges to deal with other activities as well. He says, "The judge can do teaching and scientific work without special permission, with a fee." Even Konstantinovic, a DS MP, submitted an amendment requesting that the judge have the right to participate in the RIK, the city's electoral commission or the municipal commission, and you know these proposals are being submitted by political parties. Now the question arises whether we have court politicisation or not? Look, that amendment was filed by an DS MP, and the one that was from here was quite the loudest. The other thing I would draw your attention to is that more than anything else is honesty. Congratulation is the judge's soil and the main virtue. What is easily overlooked, however, as over the required virtues of the judge is the firmness, perseverance of his character, and moral courage to resist temptations and evil. How it will resist and what moral courage every judge will have, says Article 6, that I don't read it now, I don't have time, then it is a simple conclusion that in the last ten years, many judges have rarely been just, and more often servants of the ruling party or regimes, or in the best case, non-personal officials who are not much or respected by these political parties themselves. And you've even listed Article 7, which says judges have, in order to protect their interests, the right to join as judges. Protection of interest is a double term. It can also be used for very bad facts in today’s society, including in the judiciary. I'll give you an example from Belgrade. When the former president of Belgrade's Second Municipal Court, Gordana Mihajlovic, abolished an investigation launched by the prosecutor's office against the urban mafia in Belgrade, for no reason whatsoever. The citizens complained about it. The district court annulled it, reinstated the investigation, and then came the new president of the Second Municipal Court, Ivon Lalovic, and renegotiated it, and the end of the urban mafia, won the anti-legal property benefit, etc. Don't say this has nothing to do with politics. They say we don't choose judges, we choose an institution that chooses judges. What is it? It's not a neck, it's a neck. Don't deceive this people, this law is very bad, this is wrapped only in the coast, and the more you go out, the more you tend to false things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7014	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7015	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, due to limited time, I will not be able to present what I have prepared, but I will do so in the debate on the amendments. What is a fundamental observation and unacceptable in the law on high court, it is the first but decisive and most catastrophic damage to the judiciary. What's she made up of? That the first choice of judges is carried out, so to speak, by the existing advice for the judiciary. It can't. The first selection is politically visible in the work i.e. to be chosen by, so to speak, parties in power. What does that mean? The first choice should be to select all judges. Why aren't they on the same level and going through the same procedure and members of the high council of the judiciary? When they go through that procedure, but if they were elected by judges and prosecutors, that also applies to prosecutors, when they choose them, in which case they could be legitimate, and this is how they are privileged. Practically, I see this will be done by the government, by the authority of the administration. This is what is unacceptable and what has been pointed out by several institutions and the professional public in the field of justice. They point out and accuse the promoter of why he gave and allowed himself to be placed in a privileged position by the high council of the judiciary to choose himself. When elected by the competent authority, it acquires legitimacy and can be proposed, in that case, by the proposings and institutions, that judges and prosecutors be elected. Like this, what's gonna happen? Since we have a large number of judges, we'll have a chance to do the lustration now. Now's our chance to do a lustration in the judiciary. Come on, do your lustration elsewhere, not just in the judiciary. You accuse only the judiciary and the authorities and the holders of judicial functions for corruption and crime, you place them on the highest scale of corruption and crime. If there are individuals who are prone to corruption and crime, determine one of these facts, bring them to the public and remove such people, rule out and resolve judicial functions. That's a big problem for you when it comes to Article 99, Article 100 and Article 101 in the transitional and final provisions of the High Court Act. What's visible, in the high court you choose a professor of law school. I don't know what this law professor knows about justice? If he worked as a judge for 10-15 years - he can. But he'll only tell you a hollow story and a theory. However, the judge and prosecutor from practice, they should say what they need to say and who should come. What are the criteria that can be established? The criteria should determine those who apply the law in practice. That's your basic rule. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the promoter did not take care, and now you have great resistance. What are you going to do with people who can't become judges because they resented this or that minister, this or that district chief or some politician or some political party? Are these people supposed to be out of a job? No, I don't. Don't accuse the judiciary of being guilty of a situation in our country that is in crisis times. But the fact that you're so attached to the judiciary, the malts as if only thieves work there, there are honest and honest people. And if you have evidence that someone has committed a crime of taking and giving bribes or otherwise misused their official position and function, it is resolved and there is no problem. So, this law represents, with other laws, law by order. That means when someone goes to the tailor to sew his suit, he'll sew it up fair and square when he's paid. So, ladies and gentlemen, the basic objection is, I've only got one more two or three sentences to say, about where the basic courts will be based, and where the departments, how judges' days will be conducted, how cases from the present courts will be passed on. Half of you are going to lose, remember, half of you are going to get lost, there's no speech to come to the archives of the basic court. Secondly, if Mr. Pastor asks that for the northern municipalities of the Serbian province of the autonomous Vojvodina, the courts remain the primary in Kanjiza, Vienna, Senti, not to count, then I have the same right to say that the courts remain here because of national minorities. That's where our Hungarians live, and this is where they live in Kovacica, our Slovaks, in Alibunar, our Romanians, in Kovin too, Romanians. And finally, let me say, how come now that the seat of the basic court for the Kovin Municipal Court is in Pancheva, i.e. Vrsac, and that the court for the violations is in Pancheva, and Vrsac is 86 km away, and Pančevo 33? So there it is necessary, Madam Minister, for these things to be reconsidered, and for all objections to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7016	The word is from MP Mirko Munjic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7017	Ladies and gentlemen, if the organisation of the judiciary, the regulation of the judiciary, the abolition of over 100 basic courts in Serbia will in some indirect way introduce a lustration on a small door, so with the help of these two laws, and especially with the help of the law on judges, direct lustration will be introduced through the open door. So under the pretext that someone has not passed, a certain number of judges simply won't make it to the competition and they won't be elected. We have no illusions about the adoption of this law, but we only want to point out one wrong concept when adopting and when adopting this law. Namely, our Constitution reflects a certain state continuity. The State Continuity cannot judge that there is, on the contrary, a judge as a holder of a judicial function cannot be excluded from this principle, it is an expression and a reflection of the state continuity and it must be guaranteed at all times. Every constitution, including ours, and this new constitution recognizes certain acquired rights. Those acquired rights must also be guaranteed to judges. It is not possible to allow certain acquired rights, rights acquired earlier in an earlier period, to be abolished by adopting a new legal act. The SRS is, to be understood, for the resolution of judges, but in one way that implies that it be in accordance with the law, to be in accordance with the established procedure and to be according to the criteria laid down in the law. So if these criteria are met, normally, the judge should be resolved. So there's one wrong concept of law itself here. The political obedience that you may receive to a large extent is the lustration of the election, or re-election, but it is the re-election of the judges, you are trying in some way to sublime in the provisions on the material position of the judges, these are the members of the 37nd to 42nd proposed law, but even through the Judges' Society, or it responds that they are absolutely not satisfied with this concept of the law on judges, and especially in this area, therefore, about their material position. I don't want to arbitration between these two sides, but isn't this a direct signal that all those stories about corruption and the fight against corruption are falling into the water, but that one of the basic principles, the principle of impartiality, can't be respected until the end in this case. I don't blame the judge in the first place, I blame you primarily, and then again, we have a justice system that is limping, and in that case, it's obvious that the concept of this law isn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7018	The People's MP Dragan Stevanovic has the word, followed by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, and after that, MP Sreto Peric. He's the last registered speaker. At this point, the time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the time left. I'd like to make a brief political review of the set of these judicial laws. I think we'll have more time in the debate in particular to get into the metrics of these and some of the other laws in this set. What I first noticed this morning, Madam Minister, you and the representatives of the majority who had an apologetic relationship to these laws, said these laws should provide, these two specifically, independence of the judiciary. You can write the law very well and very nicely to transfer it to paper, you can perform for this pay phone people who with exceptional rhetorical abilities will defend this same law, but you have to admit that the independence of the judiciary needs something more, it needs, above all, the political will of the executive authority. Based on the eight-year experience behind us, in which your party, DS, was dominantly involved in power, I don't think we can get the impression that there was a political will to relieve the judiciary of the influence of politics, money, individuals and groups. What is also interesting is that the laws are in principle not an expression of the needs of Serbian citizens defined through problems present in the judiciary. They are an expression of the need imposed on you by the Venice Commission, I suppose a handful of trainees in Brussels, etc., and I think the effects you talk about on all mouths will not in practice in Serbia. What is it that I also noticed in the set of these laws? It is that in all the arguments relating to the reasons for the adoption of these laws, in general the reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure, it is dominantly stated that this is a need to comply with the Constitution under the Constitutional Law. I agree, there is nothing controversial about it, everything the laws need to define and predict should be in line with the Constitution, but then one wrong conclusion is that all the problems created in Serbia's judiciary have come up because the laws were not in line with the Constitution. You will agree with me that this is not so, that the problems in the judiciary are primarily initiated because of the fact that the judiciary was independent and, of course, because of the dominant behaviour of that minority of unconscious legal holders who, I repeat, have made the judicial system in Serbia the way it is today. Since I don't have much time, I would certainly like to mention one more thing that I have also registered through these laws, and that is the fact that through a set of these judicial laws you have defined your relationship with Kosovo and the Metohija, and it does not go beyond European intensities and intentions at all. This was particularly touched here yesterday by several MPs. I think some MPs have touched the southern Serbian province today. It seems to me that with your intention to relocate the courts, the district and municipal, that these courts are being taken over by courts in central Serbia, I think that you are thus trying to withdraw the elements of the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, and that this is in complete harmony and agree with the European Union's intention to declare the independence of the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think that's good. I think you could show this set of laws with which you started the debate today that Kosovo is the southern Serbian province. I think that people in municipalities where only because of the courts sitting, have lost their last hope and with the implementation of these laws, I think there will be serious problems in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7020	The word is from MP Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7021	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, instead of having the judiciary independently, efficiently, responsibly and transparently, as promised in 2000, we have a judicial system in Serbia trom, ineffective and after a five-octobaric revolution, when it was taken over by the Dossovian government, it became self-sufficient and functioning only for the benefit of one, the truth of luck is still a small part of corrupt judges and lawyers. I stress, and the lawyer, whom democratic forces consciously forget, and corruption in the judiciary does not exist without the strategic support of corrupt lawyers. Let's not forget that after the five-October revolution, the lawyers took over the judiciary, because you put the top of the judiciary out of law enforcement. I mean the presidents of the courts, the prosecutors, as was the case in Leskovac. That this is true we all know well, because it was decided on immunity and arrest of judges, even one Supreme Court judge in all these judicial affairs was also a lawyer as essential parts, better to say a link, between corrupt judges and citizens as parties in court proceedings. Mostly your successful lawyers were the judges of these courts. It is a public secret that the Supreme Court judge, who was also convicted in the meantime, was due to be arrested ten days ago, but leaked information from the prosecution, which proves that all the fronts are also valid for the prosecution. In Serbia, our business inefficiencies and transparency of police have failed to complete or have been in the interest of this affair being covered up, and these Supreme Court judges are being placed under close control for electoral disputes in the elections expected or now for disputes between the theft of the SRS mandate by this group of citizens of the Serbian Parliament. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why the main opponents of judicial reform, and particularly the re-election of judges, are the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, who can only be replaced by current laws if they themselves vote in their General Session. It seems that this group of citizens in the Assembly learned much from them in the part of protecting their undeserved parliamentary mandates. However, in Leskovac, where I come from, a group of judges and lawyers went on to, unfortunately, at least we are above the average, so the judge of the municipal court contributed to the legal science by establishing that N.N. A member of the police, or the police, committed a crime. So, according to this, once again, an entrepreneur from Vlasotinc for a construction machine, worth 94,000 dinars, or 1,200 euros, has been awarded an enormous amount, with the help of a judge of the District Court who confirmed such a judgment, and from the day of the first degree to the day of the second-degree verdict, it has been exactly 59 days. Although the district court in Leskovac has been on average waiting for more than one year for a decision to appeal, the fourth municipal court in Belgrade, as an executive court according to Serbia's budget, also makes a decision in less than a month's time. The Honorable impudent lawyer of the district court judge in Leskovac, the moment a lawyer was arrested, he says - he's my friend and I'm not giving him up. It was paid at the expense of his lawyer's office 69m dinars, i.e. 860,000 euros. Dear citizens, you have heard well, about a matter worth 1,200 euros on behalf of the damages compensation, the Wooden Courts have decided on the burden of the budget, or all of you 860,000 euros. The Supreme Court, not that it abolished such a verdict, but refused to press charges, better say the verdict, that this entrepreneur has no right to compensation at all because only a natural person can commit a crime, not a state body. The state of justice of the Jablanic district is long known to the Serbian Supreme Court and the justice ministry. Of course nothing is done because the Dossov authorities protect their personnel in the judiciary and as long as they are loyal to the Dossov authorities they will be able to steal the budget, namely that all of you, honest citizens of Serbia, the judiciary and such judges should protect and guarantee your human and property rights. Almost 100% confidence in the judiciary, which is the third pillar or branch of government in Serbia, clearly says that reform, but it is the right, not the cosmetic one again, as the government offers in the draft laws now on the agenda, is necessary. But, to the real reform of the judiciary, as well as the entire state, we will obviously have to wait for some other parties to come to power, i.e. Headed by the SRS. To you citizens so far far, expensive and slow justice will be further, more expensive and slower. Because, for example, in Jablanic County, from which I come, one is predicted instead of the current three municipal courts. You probably don't know that territorially, with an area of 2,769 km square, this is the largest district in Serbia and the district with the largest number of settlements, 336 settlements, with more than 240,000 inhabitants. Noting that from individual villages in the municipality of Crna Trava and Medvedja to Leskovci there are more than 70 kilometers. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7022	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday Mr. Zoran Krasic, as an authorised representative of the SRS, presented the SRS concept regarding the organisation and reform of the judiciary. Your honors and gentlemen of the judge and the staff of the judiciary, you have worked hard and hard today, afternoon and afternoon, to do your job, that by any chance you were in a position to monitor the transfer of the National Assembly, you might see that most of the speakers in the position speak of you as the greatest causes of crime and corruption. It is simply not true, gentlemen, because none of the MPs mentioned it as the most important reason for the adoption of this set of regulations in the area of justice. We believe that there are some judges who are not worthy of these functions most honorably, but that is not the way to speak. We have a fundamental and serious objection regarding the choice of judges and here today are the partial quotations of certain provisions of the Constitution, for example Article 147, but before Article 147, there is a member of the 146 that says - the judicial function is permanent. Therefore, all those who worked as judges at the time of the adoption of this constitution shall be subject to this provision of Article 146(1). Article 147, paragraph 1, says - The National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, elects a judge for the first time to be elected to a judicial office, and that is absolutely correct and that is quite all right. Article 148: The decision to suspend the court's office shall be taken by the High Council of the Judiciary, and that shall be the case. You have one big problem with the fact that you haven't had a proper relationship with the judicial authorities since 2000 and you've introduced a negative selection in the election of judges. This could be corrected if you had a good will, all those who didn't meet the standards, who worked against the law, who weren't worthy of those functions could have been resolved. You want to remove the influence of justice policy, we agree, it's acceptable for us. It's just the way it's supposed to be, but you've just introduced a policy into the justice system and it's hard for you to remove it and you're proposing to keep it that way. I'll give you two examples from a little bit further past, those who are a little younger may not remember. Mosha Piyade witnessed a car accident on Prince Milos Street and of course they asked one of the traffickers if you have a witness for what you're saying? He said, "I have another Mosha Piyada." The judge and the clerk went to his office, in order to take a statement. He said - Mr. Judge, send me a call, I'll come and make a statement in court. We today have such a position as to dictate the verdicts by the representatives of the authorities. Last night I said what verdict Nata Mesarovic made. There's another case. I think it was out there somewhere in our Sword or in Podrinj, also an accident, and by Raif Dizdarevic, you remember him with a butterfly bow. It's the one our party president Dr. Vojislav Seselj left behind in political conflicts or political interventions, both him and the Pozderca brothers, but it doesn't matter now, and they wanted to take a statement on the spot from him, but he said no, send me a call, I'll come to court to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's the kind of attitude we have to have towards the judiciary if we think we have a good judicial system. The national strategy on judicial reform, there is more and more here than how and how judicial reform should be carried out in the Serbian system. There is one member of the law on judges who says - the judge has the right to pay enough to maintain his independence and the safety of his family. Does this, ladies and gentlemen, mean anything to anyone? It doesn't mean anything. So the judge can be single, be someone who has four children and more. Does this mean anything? It doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7024	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? The Messenger of the people Velimir Ilic, and the Messenger of the people, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7025	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Serbian Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, in front of New Serbia, I would like to inform you that we cannot support this set of laws. We don't think they're good. It's a good thing we're getting closer to Europe through a series of laws that we're making, but there's one truth that we don't respect these own laws that we make. We don't respect Parliament. We don't respect his decisions, and we don't respect the laws we make in parliament. We will now pass a set of laws on justice, on the choice of judges, on everything we say is European, that Europe is asking us to, if we do not change our habits. So I would like to appeal to the ruling coalition that they agree to comply with the own laws this parliament is making. I would like to say that we are violating the Constitution, that we are making decisions that are against the constitution, that many of the problems that are key to Serbia do not come to parliament such as the Eulex question, are being solved at a small door, that many of the problems that are important to Serbia will not be respected. We have a court ruling that in the municipality of Vozdovac, nothing works. The court has ordered that the problem be resolved. There's no forced administration in the Vozdovac municipality because it doesn't suit anyone. New elections are not required. They simply vote both waiters and porters, and appointed committees. You're a general publicist. The court decision is not respected at all. I quote another example - one responsible court has made a decision - I would ask the Minister of Justice if he wants to listen to me, if I don't have to visit you and warn you, don't talk, be polite, because I am talking to you, Minister – that the church estate in Gornja Trepca, Banja Trepca, cannot be sold. He can't go to a tender because the owner knows who, the Vujan monastery. Insistent people, they have a good client, their friend, they sold Banja Trepè, next to the executive court ruling. What are we talking about here now? What set of laws? What do we want to do? Do we want to respect the judges we choose or have party courts? Party courts are resolved by party duty. If someone calls and says -- put this in the drawer until further notice, they say -- okay. If they don't put them in the drawer until further notice, they'll be replaced. We're breaking the Constitution. What will the Constitutional Court say? The Constitutional Court will say he's not in charge. Why isn't he in charge? Because he can't, people will be replaced later, etc. If we don't respect our own decisions, if we're the gas deal, which in this House has been voted by 214 votes to, to tear it down, to tear it down ourselves, our ministers are tearing it down, what can we talk about? What is the purpose and role of our Parliament? If anyone can do what they want, bring down a concession that was also passed in this House, with some advice. The council is the advisory body of the executive government, the government of the Republic of Serbia. How can the head of state be president of the council? That's unconstitutional. If someone orders that there's a conflict of interest, that the mayor can't be a MP, it's in our Constitution, and we say the government will collapse, so we can, you know, push on, we don't care. If we say the party chief can't have an electronic medium, and we say the government falls, let him work, let him go on satellite, let him go wherever he wants, just to survive the government. Therefore, it's not worth it, gentlemen, until we've changed. Until the institutions live, until the judiciary is truly independent. Let's make an effort and you gentlemen from the ruling coalition take responsibility for it all if you think we're gonna do something. Today we were listening to the debates and I listened very carefully and we said the Constitution was wrong. The judiciary would be better, but the Constitution is wrong. You know how we changed the Constitution. It was one compromise of political parties, to bring down a constitution that was puzzled and to create conditions to create a new constitution later. You know that certain parties said they would vote for the constitution, since it took a two-thirds majority in parliament and over half of the voters enrolled to vote for a change in the Constitution, we said - we would accept all the laws, and we would all activate, and all compromises would be accepted. That's how it's done. The constitution is not ideal, but an opportunity has been created to change many things in this Constitution in one normal way. Of course, we should work on it, but we said in the Constitution that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia and that no one can accept any mission that is against Serbia's unity. Now we're selling fog, we're running away from this parliament, we're running away from the debates, we're running from the resolutions we've made and we're saying -- we're going to accept Resolution 1244, EULEX is going to respect the Constitution, respect government decisions and respect the judicial authorities, but we didn't say whose -- independent Kosovo. We have automatically recognised Kosovo's independence. We've been fighting for Kosovo for 600 years. In those 600 years, we lost him on the battlefield, we lost him at the green table, we lost him in many cabinets, but we always brought him back, because we never signed it, and we publicly accepted it. Every parliament before ours has discussed it, and he wouldn't accept it. And now we're going to the Parliament. Let the phantom group discuss it and we don't even know who these negotiators are. Something is being accepted, and we don't know what's being accepted. He says all requests are accepted, we don't know what the demands are. Who made the demands? Who did he make demands to? He says Pristina still won't agree. And Pristina argues, and SB, and the UN, and everyone argues, except we did not dispute. We have two resolutions that we must respect. So please help bring these laws, our judiciary to one European level, but first let's please us here, let's say -- we will respect the laws. Let's not tear those dishes down. We ran a lot to bring down the court in Mionica, a court in some small places, where life means life to them. There's lawyers, and judges, and courtrooms and we've reconstructed the previous years of these courts, and now we want to drop it all and push it into a few cities. They need new apartments for judges, they need an extension of courtrooms, they'll all stay in small places. Will the peasant be able to go to trial 100 kilometers away, run lawyers, artificials, search for cars? How much does that cost? Gentlemen, it's life and don't run from reality, from life. You run a lot and you get a lot on the side of what to accept. It's not good for our people, we're not ready for something like that, and that's why I'm asking you to accept these amendments, to make it right. There will be a debate on amendments these days. Don't throw them away lightly. For many places, judgment means life. The municipalities are losing their impact area, it's the judiciary. We're going to get all of this into big cities, so it's easier to keep it under control, and the question is how to come, how to represent, how to behave, and from what, the village is destroyed, there's no peasant money to slow down. Should many conflicts be resolved again, not to go through judicial authorities? Please reconsider these amendments to make this law right, not to put all these courts out of place in many areas, to make it easier to settle and get over it. Let us not run much towards Europe in this way that we will put out our courts. The court in Milanovac, 200 years old, how do we now go out and tell the people - Europe is asking that there is no court in Gornji Milanovac. Which Europe, we had a court there 200 years ago, when America may not have had the most basic, and we had a court in one city. So, please, let's be correct, let's talk, let's make a deal, if we think we're doing something right, not stubbornly just going forward, breaking down everything behind us, creating a wasteland and bringing this Serbia into experiments all the time. The guinea pig, when he's experimenting on it, he dies, he can't stand it. We all have the number of experiments that can be done and still can't, someone sooner, someone later, turn ourselves in and say, can't. Many of our people are the guinea pigs of one bad policy. We've been opening this for years, we've been closing this thing, we've been going over this, we're privatizing this, we're privatizing it again, and we've simply destroyed our own country in experiments, and we've brought it down to low branches. Please, through the amendments, put this in order, if you will together. If you won't, do as you please. The more you do things like this, the shorter you'll last. You're cutting yourself into the branch you're sitting on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7026	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of their rights? Time available for 5.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7027	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, I hope that today's debate has made you realize that we were well-intentioned, that we have discussed the proposed laws with great reason and that, if you accept the DSS amendments, somewhere at the end of November, we may decide to vote for these laws. I would like to refer to two remarks from his colleague Konstantinovic in his presentation. Obviously, we didn't understand each other about Article 13, about the council's jurisdiction. What the DSS is proposing is that only in this article stands, in the first indent, that the Council elects judges to perform its duties permanently. Let's just add that. We respect the Constitution, we respect the responsibilities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and my observation was only in that direction, nothing beyond what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicted. You also said today on my criticism that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court will also be the President of the High Council of the judiciary, quote from the stenogram, "there is such a solution in all the countries in Europe. "I will remind you that there are three systems in Europe, so-called Northern European, South European and Single System. The countries representing the Northern European system are Sweden, where the council is managed by the Director-General. Ireland - the council is managed by the chief executive officer. Denmark - the work of the Council is managed by the Director and the Executive Board. Representatives of the South European model, France - the Council is chaired by the President of the Republic. Italy - the Council is chaired by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7028	Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7029	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I would first of all like to thank you for your constructive debate on the principle of the laws that were on the agenda today. As I said in today's presentation, the aim of the Ministry of Justice in proposing these laws is to obtain an impartial, effective, effective and independent judiciary, because only through such a principle will the principle of rule of law be fulfilled. As I have already said, I will repeat, the basis for the adoption of these draft laws was domestic regulations, primarily the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I will also as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and as a representative of the executive authority headed by the Ministry of Justice fully and consistently respect, then the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the National Strategy for the Reform of Justice. Also, we have consulted international documents that I listed in this morning's presentation. The question here is whether a judicial analysis has been carried out. Yesterday, in my final statement, I pointed out that since June last year, the Justice Ministry has conducted a comprehensive analysis. In order not to repeat myself, I will just say in a few words that we have done an analysis of the criminal policy, the limitations of prosecution, the limitations of the judgments delivered, the length of the proceedings both in court and in judges, the representation of the experts in the proceedings, the burden of the court and the judges, the urgency of the court and the judges, the quality and quantity of the work and the particular number of employees needed in the judicial bodies of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to say one more time that these laws don't predict re-election. As I have tried to explain, judicial reform is being fully and essentially carried out. No court in Serbia will remain in the form it has been in so far. So, the organisation and jurisdiction are changing, so, as the MPs here say, there is no continuity in relation to the existing courts in the Republic of Serbia. The number of judges in the Republic of Serbia will be, decided by the High Council of the judiciary, as the only relevant body. Also, the high council of the judiciary will be responsible for laying down criteria on choice, progress, disciplinary responsibility and court resolution. As a member of the high council of the judiciary, I will argue that these documents will be evaluated by international bodies, and above all by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. As far as disciplinary sanctions and disciplinary responsibilities exist in the bill, I must say that there are also international standards. This morning I said that these provisions were fully taken over from a document called the Basic Principles of System Law Making, which was just written by judges, prosecutors and lawyers. In this task force, the justice ministry was exclusively within the technical authority. These are organisational laws that will create a base for the work of the judicial authorities. I fully agree with you that it is necessary to amend the procedural laws, as well as to pass the law on enforcement and the Law on Lawyerry. The justice ministry is preparing the laws and will be on parliament's agenda next year. The deadlines provided for in this draft law are the deadlines set by the Law implementing the Constitution. The Ministry of Justice discussed in detail the sustainability of these deadlines, and I am deeply convinced that these deadlines can be maintained. As far as national representation is concerned, there is, as I say, positive discrimination in the draft law on judges. I think there's a national structure to be perceived and that's to be considered. As a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, I will surely advocate that it be respected. The Justice Ministry has been working with professional associations and will continue to do so. It is mentioned here that the work version of the law on the judicial academy is under way. It may not seem important to you, but I will tell you that it is a law that will define the way the future judges in the Republic of Serbia choose and train them. The law is currently being handled with professional associations -- the Association of Judges of Serbia and the Prosecutors' Association. Therefore, the Justice Ministry will continue to co-operate with professional associations, unrelated to whether or not we have a different view of certain solutions. As for the public debate, which was mentioned here, whether it was or wasn't, I'm not going to talk about it any further, I'm just going to point out that the Justice Department is doing a transparent job. All the round tables that existed were recorded with the camera's eye and can be seen through the press clippings or the annexes that were on TV shows - whether or not there was a public debate. The responsibility for law enforcement is also mentioned here. I am fully aware that here, on several occasions, are also the organisational laws concerning judicial authorities and the judiciary in general. I said that before we proposed these laws, we did financial construction and sustainability and the possibility of law enforcement. As Minister of Justice, I fully assume responsibility for these laws to be applied and I am sure, after a certain time, you will see that a valid new judicial network is going to work in the Republic of Serbia, and after a certain time you will see that the judiciary will be more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-12-0.u7030	I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on judges and a proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary, which is what we are finishing work for today. We continue the session tomorrow, November 13th, at 10.00 p.m., with a joint review of the draft public prosecutor's office law and the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors, i.e. points 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda. Thank you.
