ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10355	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session to be attended by Mr. SlobodanIlic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Zivana Bogotincevic, adviser to the finance minister. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Security of Deposits (specificities) In the last working day, we stopped to discuss the amendment to Article 1, which was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. National MP Sasa Dujovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10356	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 225 which says that the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. I would like to ask a question, first of all, to inform the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that today marks the 94th year of the Serbian army's victory over the Austro-Hungarian conquerors at the famous Colubarian Battle in World War I. Today, that day is marked shyly. The representatives of veteran organizations are not even consulted, let alone invited to this celebration. I ask a question to the competent ministry – is the government of the Republic of Serbia ashamed of its veterans and their descendants when they are not invited to such celebrations? Will, for who knows which time, the significant dates of the Serbian army's victory in its history mark a dozen ministry representatives, who come to these celebrations in black limos, and of those tens of them are workers from the ministry, and warriors and descendants inform the media about it? This way, I ask for an answer from the competent ministry and the competent minister, who is also the chairman of the Committee for the Marking of the Traditions of Serbian Liberation Wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10357	National MP, you cannot ask a parliamentary question because this session does not allow, you may request an explanation. National MP Radojko Obradovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10358	On the basis of Art. In 225 and 226 I request information and information – is the ministry responsible for the issue asked by my predecessor still the State Secretary of the Veteran Movement of Serbia, Mr Vasiljevic, who was our colleague recently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10359	National MP Sasa Dujovic, right to replica under Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10360	Mr Vasiljevic is the Secretary of State, and he is not invited to this celebration, as is none of us from this assembly, and here, as far as I know, there are at least ten war veterans, headed by two generals and several of us who were ordinary soldiers and military disabled men along the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10361	Does anyone want a word in the debate in particular to Article 1, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Buh? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and suggested that the words "small and medium-sized legal persons" be replaced by the words "legal persons". In the light of this amendment, I have stated that the legislator of this law has violated the provisions of Articles 84 and 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees the same rights and the same legal protection on the market, regardless of the form of organisation or form of property. Legal persons must have the same form of protection, whether small, medium or large. In the event that the legislator leaves out the protection of large legal entities or large companies of capital, he makes discrimination and violates the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In response to why it does not accept this amendment, the Government said: 'Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the amendment of the Deposit Insurance Act largely extends the subject of the regulation of this law. Thus far, the current Law only referred to the insurance of natural persons' deposits, while the proposed changes extended its fact to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Republic of Serbia is of the view that under the conditions of the present financial market crisis it is necessary, in addition to natural persons, to protect those economic operators, because they could suffer the most damage under such circumstances. In addition, an invitation to the article. 84th and 86th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to which the MP is called in his explanation, is not adequate, since those members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulate the legal position on the market, i.e. the equality of all forms of property. ''The essence of my amendment is that we must not make any difference and I think that, regardless of the position and opinion of the Government, the constitution, the provisions of Article. 84th and 86th, which put into the same legal context small, medium and large enterprises. If we know that we have the largest number of public enterprises within large companies, companies that do business of general interest, state-owned enterprises because of their importance in the business they do, it is the obligation of the state to protect large enterprises, its businesses. It's a strange provision by the legislator to shut down large businesses. The definition is that, I think it's a mistake, and we'll probably have a change after a while, and that's often the case, in situations where you miss certain things. When we talk about securing deposits and increasing the amount secured, we need to see certain inconsistencies of the current government. Up until a month ago, the current government said there was no crisis on our premises, that the economic, financial crisis, which rocked almost the whole world, did not feel in the areas of the Republic of Serbia. But suddenly, a month ago, we received amendments and additions to the draft of this law and other laws in this set of laws; the Deposit Insurance Act, the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, as well as amendments and additions to the Laws relating to the system of bank protection and insurance companies. We must warn the current authorities not to take sufficient care of the responsibilities of citizens, businesses and entrepreneurs. We need to get to know the public that duty is enormous. They need to worry about the current government and all of us together, because according to data we can see on National Bank sites, the business associations dealing with this problem, that the population's debt at the moment is about 310 billion dinars, converted into euro, which is 3.8 billion euros. Business debt is about 650 billion dinars or about 8 billion euros. Entrepreneurial debt is about 40 billion dinars, or around 475m euros. The population's debt, according to the National Bank Governor, is about 450 euros. In their opinion, we should not be concerned because countries in the environment, as well as Western European countries, have far greater responsibility. However, I think that, given the level of earnings in Serbia, this 450-euro per capita amount should concern us, with the full responsibility we have in society, the external debt that is currently more than $30 billion, as well as the huge debt of the economy. What the current government does not take into account and manages the wrong economic policy is the current reference interest rate. It was in 2007, from 14% down to 10%. It's 17.75% right now. This percentage should concern us. In Western European countries, it ranges between 4 and 6%, in the medium developed up to 10%. Right now, we have the highest reference rate in Europe. Together with the interest rate reference rate in the interest policy, banks apply this reference rate as a base rate and upgrade all their interest rates within the framework of this rate, so that we have a related policy in the interest and interest rates, currently ranging between 25% and 30%. I ask you and ask the current authority, do our citizens have the opportunity to pay such high interest rates in the conditions of social misery and poverty of our population? They don't have a chance. However, current authorities have forced them to pay such high interest rates. The interest rates paid by our citizens are currently among the largest interest rates in Europe. And that's what I need to worry about. The current government does nothing, especially through the reference interest rate and through interest rate policy in the banking system. I'll tell you only one thing, in 2007, the National Bank of Serbia had 21 controls in 35 banks in Serbia. She filed 15 charges for violations, for banks, and 21 economic offenses. Not enough, and it's not adequate control. The National Bank does not do what it is in charge of the National Bank Act, according to the Bank Act. There is a very serious position behind this lack of control in which the National Bank is located. We must say that the National Bank must not go to control. Who? Foreign banks. They're not foreign, I figuratively say foreign banks. These are banks whose founders, i.e. whose capital came from abroad. It's a total of 21 banks owned by abroad. Insufficient control of the National Bank, high reference interest rate, high interest rates, that's the stone and burden that lies on the population, businesses, entrepreneurs and the inability to return the loan neatly. We can say, according to data from the National Bank of Serbia, that the orderly return of the loan is satisfactory. It was satisfactory until the tenth month, this year. Now the collapse begins. Such practice is also in other countries in the environment and in countries that have recently joined the EU. The population and the economy are hungry for credit. Credits were taken, for example in the Czech Republic, in 2007 the banks seized the forced execution of 200,000 apartments and houses. He must be worried about the current power of that information. On the other hand, we have information that in Croatia more than 15,000 cars, which have been taken to the lollipop, have been returned to the people who gave the licking, i.e. the losing houses. This should concern the current government. But that's not what you're worried about. Don't do anything. The current government doesn't do anything to point to the population, businesses, any potentially harmful jobs that can come out of jobs like this where we have such a high reference interest rate. We are in a position to pay the highest interest rates in Europe. That's what we should be worried about. The debt we have should be our concern. Although since 2001 we have entered a reform in terms of privatisation of state and social capital, nearly 70 percent, of what was owned by the state and social property, it is privatised, we have included around 4 billion euros. We pump these funds into public spending, instead of implementing what the Privatisation Act tells us, investing in development funds, reinvesting in certain projects, helping small and medium-sized enterprises, raising the economy, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises, and from the profits of these companies, the state would live. Like this, we pump everything up in public consumption. We have spent it and we can say that we have almost completed the privatisation process, without any positive effects, and we will feel a devastating privatisation policy in the coming year and in the coming years. Let's get back to Article 1. The bill promoter had to accept this amendment and protect what is state property. Within the system of large enterprises there are public enterprises, state-owned enterprises that carry out activities of general interest. It's weird that we don't protect our own, the state doesn't protect state-owned enterprises. It must be a unique example in the world, and here we have it here in action. Society had to stand up for protection and help and small utility companies and large public systems, here, and this way. We also need to point out a certain phenomenon in a society that we can see in the banking system, which is control and management of state banks. Now we have eight banks with the majority capital of the state and almost all eight are losers. The most recent example is the Post Office, which lost 2.8 billion dinars in 2007, and has already achieved a loss of 2.5 billion in the first six months of 2008. Here they heard from representatives of the SRS and MPs in the Assembly what they paid in these and these kind of banks, and then we get the information that they pay 200, 300, etc. Thousands of dinars, and here we see a huge loss. What makes the state stop it? Nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10363	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10364	The amendment to Mr Buha, Article 1, opens in the most beautiful way possible the story of how the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry, is in fact being extremely pointless, irresponsible when it comes to the citizens of Serbia and when it comes to the work of this National Assembly, respect, or disrespect for the MPs. You know, more than two months ago, the DSS submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Deposit Insurance Act, and for the same reasons why this bill was submitted to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If what the ruling coalition is talking about is true that it is necessary to complete the matter as quickly as possible with proposals of legislation that are relevant to the life of citizens, which are in the function of combating the economic crisis, etc., the government of the Republic of Serbia would not have done this to us, but rather two months ago, instead of sending a negative response to the DSS bill, what it thinks should be complemented by amendments, and we would have adopted a law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act two months ago. That's what needs to be said today, so when we think of Saturday's debate whether to work on Saturdays and Sundays or not, whether it blocks the work of the National Assembly or not, whether the National Assembly is a black hole or someone else, here's an answer to that question. The black hole is the government of the Republic of Serbia that cannot deliver to the National Assembly a set of laws needed for both European accession and those essential laws necessary for the state, or the citizens of Serbia, to defend themselves from the threat, as is the case with the global economic crisis. So, more than two months after the quality proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act is passed today, we are still discussing amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr Buha's amendment to Article 1 proves that this bill by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not that it is no better than the bill submitted by the DSS two months ago, which should have been passed in the National Assembly long ago, but is worse. It's already been said about what article 84 says. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says everyone has the same legal position on the market. The market in this sense is a broad term. Paragraph 2 states: "No acts are prohibited which, contrary to the law, restrict free competition by creating or misusing a monopoly or dominant position. ''St. 3. says, ''The law acquired by investing capital under the law, can't be reduced by law. 'And, then, equates foreign legal persons with domestics on the market. In the basic text of the Deposit Insurance Act, which applies, in Article 2, you have the determination of the importance of certain concepts. When you look at all the meanings of certain concepts, there is no definition of a small, medium and large legal person. Where's that? This is in the Accounting and Audit Act in Article 7 which speaks of the classification of legal entities. This, of course, is about small, medium and large legal persons. If you're proposing a law, you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you want to introduce a new category, a special law, so it's not about the Accounting and Audit Act, it's about the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, you have to explain the concepts you're introducing. Because if you do not explain the terms that you are introducing in a concrete legislative proposal, they remain as a kind of nakarada in this text that does not have any meaning, it totally opposes the meanings given by other laws that speak of the concept of a legal person and of a company, so even these terms are opposed to this bill. That way you can't write the law, it doesn't make any sense, and in itself it doesn't have any internal significance. We cannot relate to the other law in terms of terms unless explicitly in the draft law, the concepts are set in an adequate way. What you wrote doesn't mean anything, it's first and foremost. Secondly, if we divide certain entities into small, large and medium-sized legal entities, if we share legal persons as entities, in doing so, we do not only think about enterprises or think about enterprises, you have to define what you mean when you talk about the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Deposit Insurance Act, when you introduce this category in Article 1. From what you've written, from the text of the whole basic law that's being amended by this bill, it's not clear. This isn't how the law can be written. What you wrote, indeed, doesn't make any sense and the only thing that can be done here is either to delete Article 1 or to amend Article 1 in the way that Mr. Milorad Buh suggested, to introduce the notion of a legal person, so let's see. And if you're worried about whether there's a basis for security of the deposit, so-called. Great legal entities, then that concern ends the moment the proposed amendment is adopted, because it does not divide legal persons into large, medium and small, but talks about legal persons. And then a commitment is set – whether we protect the security of deposits and legal persons or not, whether we protect only natural persons, that is the question we can discuss. To introduce categories from the Accounting and Audit Act into this law without any further explanation in the text of the Bill's proposal, not only is it legally incorrect, but it introduces additional confusion and suggests that legal entities in this society are treated in a completely unequal way, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10365	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10366	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposed amendments made by Mr Buha are meaningful and should be accepted, because it also equalises small and medium-sized enterprises, but in general, it should be undertaken under one term - legal persons. Today it is December 15th, and the economic crisis that has rocked the whole world has caused so much damage that I fear these measures that are now coming in line from the Government of the Republic of Serbia are quite late. The DSS was still on October 8th, when it was obvious that the economic crisis would hit Serbia, it proposed one of the laws that would reduce the damage to the economic crisis. The government of the Republic of Serbia then reacted, i.e. its representatives reacted by saying that they should not panic and that these drafts of the law are completely pointless. That is exactly what Mr Ilic, who is the secretary of state at the finance ministry, said on the Finance Committee, when it was discussed that after 15 days, the government of the Republic of Serbia would pass a law that would increase the secured deposit to 50,000 euros. In addition to the law that will increase deposit security in banks, no law has come to this moment that will boost economic activity and will reduce damage from the economic crisis. In all developed countries of Western Europe, including America, packaged measures have been taken to warn the consequences of the state crisis. These packages of measures consisted of and implies, in addition to the reduction of the reference interest rates, and significant economic support, i.e. the reduction of interest rates and cheap loans for the economy that cannot cope with the crisis on its own. For example, the U.S. is pumping $200 million into its auto-industry, Germany is giving very favourable loans to buy cars, because their economy is based precisely on auto-industry. In some other countries, these are support through direct subsidies. Mostly, as far as Serbia is concerned, in addition to this law, which is more of a marketing nature, to reduce public panic, there are no more significant measures to boost the activity of the economy. That the law was too late also speaks of the fact that in October alone, more than 350m euros were withdrawn from business banks, and in November more than 400m euros, although in November the month of savings, when the stakes in banks should increase, we have a reduction in the roles in banks, which is a clear sign that this measure, although announced, did not yield results, because it was likely to react earlier and that it was followed by other follow-up measures. Also, one of the negative characteristics that the government has helped is an increase in the reference interest rate to almost 18% of the National Bank, while the reference interest rates in developed countries tend to decline and move around 5%. In order for the economy to overcome the current crisis and not lose jobs, so that companies do not go bankrupt, they must either have direct subsidies from the state, or they must have cheap loans. The other day, I was with a friend of mine who works in entrepreneurship, and he has a catering facility and a dozen employees. He took a loan he had to refinance, went to a bank with which he contracted to refinance the loan and received 29.3% interest money for it. That loan is indexed in dinars, but also with a foreign exchange clause. Imagine someone who deals with any work, especially catering, who has to take 50,000 euros of credit at 29.3%. What's he supposed to do, what prices he's gonna sell, what profit he's got to pay for that loan? I note that in addition to this high interest, there is also a foreign exchange clause, if the course moves over 3% up or down, that a new course is being calculated. Ten days ago, we asked a parliamentary question to the finance ministry, to tell us how many revenues are made in the Republic of Serbia's budget and why no payments from the Treasury are made. One of my friends and entrepreneur worked for the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and for the Ministry of National Investment Plan, four jobs worth three to five million. A man employs seven people and has several machines. From March to August, he worked in four different jobs worth over 20 million dinars. He took the loan, took the stuff he worked with, fueled the pumps, paid the workers' wages. Since September of the month, when he turned over to pay his dues, because he finished his full work, until today no single dollar was paid to him. The man was completely bankrupt, and last week he had an obligation to pay the VAT. He hasn't worked for a month, won't be given gas at the pumps, won't be given material, and the state hasn't paid him more than 20 million dinars, and he's chasing him to pay the value added tax. During the previous two weeks in Nis and the environment, the financial police have been making a real siege of entrepreneurs, chasing them to pay VAT, which is a normal obligation, but looking for all possible ways of any failures in their work, to write them enormous penalties. So they wrote one man a fine of 100,000 dinars because he had one wrong code of all, over 300 items, as much as he had in the store and a ten-day labour ban, just to fill the budget and make money in the vault. In this way, not that the economy will not survive, so the state will completely destroy the economy. At the same time, we have several negative effects. In addition to the global economic crisis, which affects Serbia, there is a reduction in subsidies from the state, especially on agriculture, which is a basic economic branch in Serbia... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. I'm done. There are no cheap loans from business banks, because it is a high reference interest rate, the state does not pay its obligations, and it forces its taxpayers to pay VAT, although it does not carry out its own obligations to them. In this way, I'm afraid, not that the effects of the crisis will decrease, but only to increase further, and that the economy will suffer a complete collapse, and that story of preserving jobs will be another colorful lie. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10367	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10368	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. First of all, I'd like to read you some news from the Italian newspaper "Republic": "Torino." From Monday, December 15th to January 10th of the following year, thousands of Italian plant workers will be on forced vacation, the Italian industry's pride management confirmed. According to the company, this measure of the Italian government, which applies to other firms in the crisis, relates to a total of 48 000 FIAT workers, the ANSA quoted it as saying. The largest number of workers to be found on an emergency vacation is the historic plant "Mirafijori". In the wake of a crisis that affects the Fiat, but also the automotive industry in the world, the first man, Sergio Markione, said he had never seen a crisis of such proportions and that in 2009, it would be the worst year of his life. At the same time, Markione urged the government to take appropriate measures. He also predicted last week that only six of the current 50 car manufacturers would survive, in the long run, this crisis. ''I request a reply from the Prime Minister – what has been done so far to fulfil the obligations of the contract, from the pre-election contract, with the Italian car factory? What are the direct or indirect investments of the Government in this business so far, what are the direct or indirect investments of the Fiat? Has the car factory in Kragujevac already completely stopped working, awaiting the realisation of this contract? Will there ever be a realization? What are we going to do with unfulfilled promises to citizens, not just Kragujevci, I would say, a quarter of Serbia that planned this way to be employed? Times are hard for us and for others. It's obvious that others are taking action. It's obvious that the stronger we fight harder to find salvation from this crisis, and we let ourselves go, swim down the water. The governor has burned down a billion euros since the beginning of the year, in two months 500m euros in defence of a dinar course, in which some people earn money. Thank you for your support. It is a serious issue, and it needs support from all MPs. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister to finally appear before the National Assembly, that he also assumes on himself a burden, a public burden of responsibility, to introduce us to the measures that the Government is preparing, if at all preparing them, so that we know whether it is necessary to obstruct Serbia or whether it would be better for some political parties. Thank you. (During the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10369	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I further explain the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS Group to Article 2(1). The draft law amending and supplementing deposit insurance laws, I need to look back a little on everything that happened on Saturday and Saturday to this day, followed by a media coup against opposition MPs, and above all by the MPs of the SRS. The heads of parliament's groups, Nada Kolundzija, head of the DS Parliament Group and Suzanne Grubjesic, head of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, said MPs who speak from this place are obstructing Parliament's work, and I am now informing the public that neither Mrs Kolundzija nor Mrs Grubjesic are in the assembly room and they are thus obstructing Serbia, obstructing the lives of Serbian citizens. That is what is true, and what you have tried to show, that someone because they want to draw attention to what are real problems in Serbia, which wants to meet the citizens of Serbia with what are real, the life problems of Serbian citizens, you are trying to present it completely differently, in order to transfer responsibility for difficult life in Serbia to someone else. Of course, it won't work. All Serbian citizens know and see, after all, who is fighting for their interests, who from this place draws attention to the competent state authorities to crime, to life, to the economic crisis, to problems related to EULEX and to the problems of the Serbs at KIM at all. If these are topics for you to count for minutes, as many as anyone here speaks, then indeed, you show what kind of authority you are and how much you don't care about everything that happens in Serbia. You are looking and taking care of how not to fall apart, how to remain the government in Serbia. The fact that we've been distracting, insisting since June of the month that people in KIM are being debated here, that the deployment of the Eulex mission, that was funny to you, that was boring to you. You saw this as an obstruction, and you see, today, in all the media, it has been announced that Eulexa headquarters will be, no less or less, in Belgrade. That is an additional reason for concern and an additional reason to discuss it in this House. It is not worth it, unfortunately, we have no one to say it to, because those who have a congregation majority are not interested in it. We've turned our attention to crime, corruption, we've brought out concrete cases, we've exposed crime in public enterprises, or at least the principles of the tip of the iceberg. It was an obstruction to you, too. It was funny to you, too. You couldn't listen to that either, so you got out of the O.R. You ended up, in a certain way, talking to Kristo. Mrs. Minister told us, and we'll wait for those 15 days as long as it takes, that the financial inspection will carry out an inspection on Belgrade's Airport. We expect, as MPs, that we will get an answer to all the questions that we have asked here. We have no reason not to trust Mrs Dragutinovic, but in 15 days, God of health, we're here to see. The problem is that we still have public enterprises where the salaries of directors and board presidents are some state secret, business, military, I don't know which. But in any case, it is becoming, they say, inadmissiblely rude how these directors of public enterprises treat Serbian citizens, because they say, on the question of how much they pay them, they are inadmissiblely rude. In this way, you distract citizens of Serbia who are in a situation where they do not know what they will eat tomorrow, how they will pay for electricity, how they will pay for municipal services, and the purchases of municipal services, city transport, electricity, etc. are announced. And the goods of broad consumption no one can wash away how much they collect every day. Under these measures, which the government, like, intends to help Serbian citizens, ministers are sending us messages in a way that we can save. Dulic says he keeps his modest home budget by turning off the computer when it comes out of the house, turning off the TV when it starts, turning off all the lights. The second minister tells us that we do not buy stoves, refrigerators, as if in Serbia someone could buy, of course, except ministers and board presidents, directors of public enterprises and a small number of other citizens, so Minister Milosavljevic needs to tell us how to save. When we talk about it, you're trying to turn the mill on your mill, draw attention to someone else's guilt because we have an irresponsible government, and somehow you promised a socially responsible government. You've been trying in the media all weekend to say that the opposition is responsible that the citizens, or that the Republic of Serbia, will not have a budget by the end of the year. Well, how can it be responsible for someone from the opposition that the budget won't be brought in within the deadline when the budget is due today, and we got it a week ago? The government was due to adopt it on November 1st, and the government adopted it on December 4th. How, then, can we be responsible for having an irresponsible government in relation to Serbian citizens? You're saying yesterday, the news is spinning on all news as a warning to the citizens of Serbia -- respected, dear citizens, the opposition is guilty that you won't be able to travel for New Year's Eve, the opposition is guilty of not having passed a law amending the Law on travel documents. You draw attention from what you have been promising citizens for eight years, which is a white Schengen list, from which nothing remains, you draw the attention of the citizens to the other side so that someone doesn't ask you why the Law on travel documents, which came into force in July of this year and which took them until the end of this year to withdraw from use by those old passports. Who's responsible? That's the essential question. Who's responsible for us even having the need to extend this deadline from the law for another year? It is a fundamental question, and it is not a question of whether it will be voted today or in five days. The answer we tried to give is the correspondence between Ljubisa Vuletic, director of the Banknotes Agency, Bozidar Djelic, Jelasic, there they were arguing about who was responsible, who was responsible. In any case, no one from the opposition, because the opposition can't be responsible for not applying the law. Do not think that the citizens of Serbia are foolish, do not insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens, accept responsibility, you are the ruling coalition, you are the government and you are responsible if you have something to brag about that you have done well, then it is, of course, your credit, but you do not. So you must take responsibility for what you are indeed responsible for. When it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance and Article 2 I have submitted the amendment, we must also remind ourselves, when much has been said and written about the economic crisis and the banking crisis around the world, then officials from the Government of the Republic of Serbia boasted, remember, Bozidar Djelic said that this economic crisis is a god-given crisis for Serbia, that we will benefit from this economic crisis, that now all foreign investors will flock to Serbia. What he's based on is such a stupid conclusion, he probably doesn't know it either. You, Mr. Ilic, on one show, also at the beginning of this crisis, claimed that there was no need at all for Serbian citizens to take care of their deposits, that what the Deposit Law provides is quite sufficient, so that, then, possible deposit insurance could be increased to 30,000, and here, at the end of 50,000. So, just remember what you were saying when the economic teachers tried to convince you, to draw attention to you to live in a state of Serbia that is in a major economic crisis and social misery. You've been acting like we're living in prosperity, like the citizens don't know how they live. Now, back-to-back you bring this bill, of course, with a great delay. What did you do? Where is your package of measures to protect Serbian citizens from the economic crisis that has occurred in Europe, the world, but which has also appeared in Serbia? What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? You didn't do anything. Remember, we read to you here when the Prime Minister said that a commission was formed to determine some measures to overcome the crisis, etc. and said one of the members of Radovan Jelasic was in the commission. On the same day, journalists called Jelasic to ask what he would do as part of the commission, and he said he had no idea the Commission was formed and even less that he was a member of the commission. This speaks of how irresponsible you are, how irresponsible you are and how you are not taking care of Serbian citizens, the interests of Serbian citizens and the national interests of the Serbian state. That's all you're trying to hide in public, someone else is responsible. How can the opposition be responsible because the government is not doing well or that you give us a bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act with an absolutely unconstitutional position of 2, Article 2? How could that have occurred to you when you have clear views of members 84 and 86? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and these two members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantee the same rights and the same legal protection on the market, regardless of the form of organisation? Now, there is probably something behind this when you pointed out – the bank is obliged to provide deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized legal persons with the Agency referred to in Article 3(1) of this Act, which does not cover deposits which, etc. So what you've suggested is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you can't pass such laws, we don't think this happens by chance. You're not so ignorant, and we know that you're not so ignorant, that you don't know that this is contrary to the Constitution. But, you want something else, you want this law to be passed, someone to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, that this law is declared unconstitutional, because it is unconstitutional, and that someone else is to blame again, that the opposition is to blame for drawing your attention that you're proposing an unconstitutional law, so that you can't actually apply it. You have a lot of dirty and bad intentions, don't take care of the citizens of Serbia and don't try to put your responsibility on someone else! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10371	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10372	The President-in-Office, respected Minister Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act was announced in a press conference, which was attended by the Prime Minister, as a law that will solve major problems facing citizens under the circumstances of the emerging economic crisis. It was this law that was meant to show that the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading and has a policy when it comes to reacting to this difficult economic situation that has hit the whole world, and of course Serbia and the press conference and this bill should die the fears of the citizens of what is coming to us. However, this law can only be qualified as a defensive one, and not as a 'practical' step of a government that has a vision of how to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis. I will remind the MPs once again that the DSS parliamentary group came out two months ago with a bill that was supposed to intervene in this area when it comes to deposits. We were then accused as someone spreading fear and panic, as someone who slowly approached Serbia and gave it a meaning that should not have at all. After this, following an analysis that we had both in the parliamentary group and in the party itself, when it comes to the real effects and the need to achieve unity and consensus within Serbia on which direction the state should react, we proposed that a commission be formed in the National Assembly itself, by representatives of the highest state bodies and parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, in order to monitor this economic crisis and to propose to the competent state authorities to adopt measures that would be an adequate response to it. Then we had no understanding, and then we heard that the government itself, it is unclear by what act and by what way, forms a working body with members whose responsibilities are not known, or specific tasks. And what has this working body done so far? We want to say that the government does not react quickly or adequately to what is being prepared for us, and what would be imposed as a conclusion is that the justifiable fear that exists among citizens for jobs, for living standards, in general for existence, should be tempered by an active, responsible and courageous government. And we are just, by analysing what this government has done so far, seeing that this government is in fear, afraid to come out with concrete measures for the citizens and say: this is a vision that we want to lead Serbia in 2009 and 2010, when it is expected to end this economic crisis, and in this way the fears of the citizens are maximumed, and that inside the government is total confusion and unclear what decisions should be made. We see that the Deputy Prime Minister himself invites state authorities to respond. Those who are the most responsible to make decisions, to direct the government's economic policy, within the government itself do not know whose responsibility it is and whose competences it is. What is most important when it comes to the atmosphere in Serbia, in Serbian society, on this economic crisis, and on the political scene itself, is that Serbia is the only country where the Prime Minister did not come before the MPs and table proposals. We, in addition to all the calls we have, will demand that the Prime Minister appear in the National Assembly when it comes to the debate on KIM, when it comes to the debate on the impasse of European integration, when it comes to the economic crisis, will first see the Prime Minister in the National Assembly when it comes to the debate on his mistrust. And that's what worries the citizens and the MPs, that there is no concrete activity within the government itself that would calm the citizens. We also hear from the government's top representatives that 2009 will be the hardest year. Even some top government officials say a collapse of the Serbian economy is expected, and then we have trouble within the government itself and we have the only concrete measure that has come here, with delay, in response to what the DSS itself has proposed, which has been fiercely attacked in the National Assembly, on committees of the National Assembly, to spread panic and fear. This is what Serbian citizens resent the current government – the absence of courage, the absence of responsibility, the absence of an active policy and the absence of a desire to make a consensus within both the National Assembly and the Serbian society. Instead, we have charges against the opposition to obstruct the work of the Assembly. Why don't the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister come to the National Assembly, and let's talk about what kind of active policy the government needs to implement in terms of the economic crisis, when all prime ministers and state representatives had, not one, but more joint sessions with their parliaments and discussed it, faced criticism, faced issues, but eventually established a consensus within society. What is this, above all, separate policy of Serbia in the time of the economic crisis that is coming? These are the fundamental, fundamental political issues that we need to talk about today, and we are, in fact, now in a situation to react to the fear of citizens by a law that was not supported within the ministry itself, but was clearly imposed by the highest political representatives of the current government, in order to try, as I said, to lower fear among citizens. We have no answers to the key questions, what about the fact that next year, probably in 2010, will be reduced investment in Serbia, which can only lead to employment growth, to the growth of living standards, what about the fact that it is persistently silent, and the government is sending messages (again to calm the public, and it will be seen that we will be right about what we are talking about today) that, as it is called, "the business of the century" with the "Fiat" and how it is questioned, and the budget provides huge funds, of course, we will talk about it when the budget is called, for this investment. What about the fact that we have the dismissal of a large number of employees in certain companies, and the government is not responding by offering development policy, but by administrative measures it is trying to prevent the release from bringing even greater tension within Serbia's economy. What about the fact that the dinar falls, what about the fact that we split within the government about the unilateral application of the SAA, about the frozen Trade Agreement, about the destruction of concessions, about the destruction of the Gas Agreement? These are the concrete results of this government, and it is, indeed, defeating that the Prime Minister is coming to the National Assembly for the first time, from his election to the post, on the day of the debate on his mistrust. The story of Serbia's development policy is something that has been discussed several times in this National Assembly. A smaller or more number of MPs agreed that small and medium-sized enterprises are the main momentum of the development of the Serbian economy, but are persistently ignored, and this law shows this, as my colleagues have repeatedly pointed out, and counterpart Verica Radeta, this fully anti-constitutional provision indicates in a very strange way the government's relationship with large companies, which are both large exporters and employ a large number of our citizens. Of course, for small and medium-sized enterprises, in these conditions of economic crisis, cheap loans are needed. All of us sitting in the National Assembly know, more or less, what problems entrepreneurs and those who run small and medium-sized enterprises now face because of such high interest. It would be good, when the Prime Minister comes, to ask him if that measure taken by the NBS to increase the mandatory reserve of banks, which, in fact, led to an increase in interest, should continue to stand in those positions or not? At the moment, it is most important to help the Serbian economy to avoid collapse and to increase as much as possible the crafts that would be given to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. So what it is is some basic conclusion that is imposed and based on this law that we are discussing, based on everything that the government does, is that this is not a brave and proactive government, but this is a defensive government and government in fear of what it expects in 2009, which is a major economic crisis. And this instability within the government and this absence of unity over the most important strategic issues, the lack of measures to mitigate and the vision of Serbia's development, are something that indicates that there is no longer any reason for this government to survive. Surely in the context of the debate, which is coming to us, about mistrust, we will open up all these dilemmas and all these issues, and the effect of the government itself, and in particular, in the end, I point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not come to the citizens with any concrete measure to offer a vision of Serbia's development, not administrative measures, but development measures, to protect jobs and increase employment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10373	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Milovan Radovanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10374	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Dejan Mirovic has submitted an amendment to Article 2 paragraph 4(2) of the Deposit Insurance Act, which he has asked, as well as in previous amendments, for the insurance of deposits to be extended except to natural persons, as provided for by earlier law, to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized legal persons, as provided for by the bill, and to all legal persons. In response to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which refused to accept the proposed amendment, it is said that the proposed amendment of the Law extends to a large extent the subject of the regulation of this law, i.e. until now the current law concerned only the insurance of the deposits of natural persons, and its proposed changes extends to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the Republic of Serbia considers that it is necessary to protect, in addition to natural persons, those economic operators. In its response, the government has not reacted in the sense that this is an even wider protection of deposits than they have foreseen in the bill, so far, it is impossible given the different moments of the financial market and the business of the state and of all legal entities for certain reasons because of financial resources, etc. And we in the SRS consider it more than justifiable. I'm going to give you this in one case from 2002 and 2003, and I'm going to justify doing so. The government stated in its position of 2nd response that the call for an article was made. 84th and 86th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which requires the equality of all legal persons on the market and where we believe there is discrimination, that there are no legal persons, both small and medium and large, is not adequate, given that those members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulate the legal position on the market, i.e. the equality of all forms of property. However, it is true that Article 84 is in the first position. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says everyone has the same legal position on the market, and in the last 4th position, foreign persons are evenly placed on the market with domestic faces. It's not about the form of property here, it's not about whether there's social property, private property or state property. It is said that they are all equal on the market, (and the accent is on it) regardless of whether they are foreign or domestic, physical or legal persons. So this response to the government in this part, as well as in the part which they are called on to be extended entities that are provided with deposits, is not quite adequate and I personally think that it is wrong. What else is going on in the financial market, financial monetary policy? In Serbia, as SRS MP Milorad Buha said, there are 21 foreign capital banks, foreign money, which are being exorcised, and should also be talked about, the financial value of the domestic market through deposits and natural and legal persons. We now do not know the fate of this deposit, of this money, which comes in different ways to foreign banks in Serbia (we are not against the business of foreign banks in Serbia, just business, and at all foreign natural and legal persons, should protect both the Serbian citizen and all legal persons, whether they are small, medium or large). They are most likely to place that money, financial resources, whether they are foreign or dinar, further to cover their losses on the foreign market. How will then reflect the global crisis, which will hit the country early next year, especially the domestic banks, and there are eight (as Mr. Milorad Buha said) which are mostly, so far in this year 2008, losers. Domestic financial and other potentials, someone in Serbia passed on to foreign banks, are not losers. Whether there are eight, less or more, there is a particular problem of that kind. By way of cheap privatisation, small money privatisation, we all know that four banks were liquidated a few years ago: "Jugobank", "Investment Bank", "Beobank" and "Belgrade Bank". We know what happened to the workers, about eight thousand workers lost their jobs. Their bankruptcy mass, and above all "Belgrade Bank", is directed to certain banks formed in foreign countries, and I mean "Vexim", or later "Euroaxis" bank, which was formed by the resources of domestic, natural and legal persons, which is contrary to standards, Mr. Prime Minister, "Banke for International Accounts" in Basel, which was then warned by NBJ and Minister Mladjan Dinkic that this was not permitted and contrary to the rules of that bank and international financial business. Regardless of what was forbidden by these standards, norms, rules, principles, it was done to deposit domestic foreign exchange funds at the Euroaxis Bank, contrary to those standards. Even so, despite the warning, these foreign currency assets of our country were used to cover the security of further placement of funds on the risky Russian market. On that point, the Bank for International Accounts in Basel warned the NBJ, then the SRJ, and later the NBS, but in vain. The current governor of the NBS continued the job of Mladjan Dinkic, to make foreign exchange payments to the Euroaxis Bank, contrary to those standards, and you are calling for the reasons of this bill to be the reason for the adoption of this law, as you say, to amend the Deposit Insurance Act, to increase the amount secured due to the need for harmonisation, both domestic legislation and countries in the environment and EU countries. You did not respect and I am sure that some members of the government continued in the same direction, and I am sorry to mention Mladjan Dinkic in a negative context, and that is justified, after mentioning some former members of the SRS, who probably wants to take his place in the government, I am reluctant to call him in a negative context, but the fact that he has done a lot of damage to both the state and certain banks, especially in the formation, and you well know, 'National Savings' by domestic funds and domestic money through deposits he placed in the 'Euroaxis' bank. Of course, after the capitalization of "National Savings" over the Shore of the firm "Fideja" and "Coprom", there has been an increase in the ownership of certain companies "Eltim", "Principal", "Diners Club", "Little collective", etc., you also know this well, follow this problem, and you, Madam Minister, because all this has a bad impact on the potential, both financial and economic values in the state of Tom, must once stand in the way, but with this kind of policy and this kind of behavior of the most responsible state officials, here first of all, I mean the members of the government, it's just impossible. This example of the need for large legal systems, large legal entities to protect their deposits, lies in financial transactions and malfeasances that went on the German bank's route, their business units in Switzerland, the "Gelezzare" in Smederev "Sartida" and "U.S.S. Steel's, the American firm that bought the Sartid afterwards. Madam Minister, you're looking at me, I can see that this is familiar to you, it's a huge demand for banks that were then transferred to the state through the Deposit Insurance Agency, bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks, whose president was Miroljub Labus, therefore, was transferred to demand of that debt, or the obligation was taken over by the state in the amount of, like, a billion and six hundred million dollars. When we talk about all these deposits, about securing deposits, about financial transactions, we list a lot of examples where the damages were seen as citizens, domestic legal persons, and so was the state. That should get in the way once. You state as an excuse, a positive explanation, a proposal for this law – this way should further strengthen citizens' confidence in the banking system. It's completely wrong. The security of deposits in favour of natural persons, businessmen, small and medium-sized enterprises does not give rise to confidence in the banking system. How do you put trust in the banking system? By creating conditions for normal functioning of the financial and banking system, citizens have confidence in banks. This is where trust is gained in the state because the state intervenes, the state provides deposits. It's completely wrong thesis. This would be the same if milk producers, i.e. citizens who use milk and other agricultural products where the state intervenes with subsidies, premiums and regressions, had confidence in agricultural producers. Wrongly, the state intervenes and citizens should have confidence in the state in that case. In the case of milk premiums, should they trust the milk producer or the country that gives the premiums to that producer? It is necessary for the State to create market conditions for milk producers to benefit and producers of all agricultural products through the price parity system, thus gaining confidence in agricultural producers. So here in the banking and financial system, if the state intervenes with its measures, then citizens have more reason to believe in the state, to trust in the state than banks or agricultural producers. Finally, as a member of the SRS, I think it is more than justifiable to accept the amendment of Master Dejan Mirovic, who submitted to Article 2 of point 4(2) of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10375	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10376	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dejan Mirovic has tabled an amendment relating to Article 2(4) of point 7) and which, in fact, the words and terms given in the draft law replaces "small and medium-sized legal persons" with the words "legal persons". I think it sounds like it's a rhobarb of what's given in the Bill's proposal, it sounds like it's a ghoul, and it's a constitutional category because the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that regardless of whether it's small, medium or large enterprises, they have the exact same rights and obligations on the market and no one among them can make a difference. Of course, it is quite clear that it is the government's obligation to protect large enterprises and large companies, because the largest number of these large companies are owned by the Republic or local self-government, it is public enterprises, but it is also very important that the state protects small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are, in fact, what is a reflection of the market, employs a large number of people and significantly participates in exports, and I see that the projected exports in the budget for the next year with 20%, as it was in 2007, fell to 5%. On the other hand, the measures proposed by the Serbian government to meet this major economic crisis, and these measures are reduced to doing nothing, I see that they completely paralyze the economy, that they lead to the layoff of a large number of workers, although in the West, the rule is that when a crisis in a company is a job layoff at the 11th place of regulation of this company's status at that point, I see, in Serbia, it is simply a trend, that this is the first measure that the company is implementing in the crisis. What is important, in fact, is what we need to take care of, and we see it from this budget that we are going to discuss, hopefully this week, we see that the government is making significant concessions to the EU. It frees them from customs and tax and thus makes concessions to EU producers. When you release EU producers from paying customs duties and everything that belongs to a country, their products will obviously have a lower price on the market and EU producers will also try to make their governments fall even more because it is important for them to keep their jobs, their workers and their earnings. It is obvious that our government does not take care of it and that it does not think that it should protect its workers and their jobs. Let's talk a little bit about agriculture in Serbia and how this release of customs duties on agricultural products and agricultural cultures from the EU will affect when you reduce and stimulate farmers in Serbia in any way, as the state has done so far, to give them subsidies, while at the same time their products are much more expensive than the products coming into the country from the EU. So the state is systematically trying to completely paralyze its economy. On the other hand, these last few days, especially, and for God's sakes for the last month, we have constant complaints from Prime Minister Cvetkovic's cabinet, from the Serbian and prime ministers, that because of the great economic crisis that the government in the world has been unable to deliver on their pre-election promises that were made when the government was formed, although, to be fair, these promises cannot be fulfilled for some other reasons, em have been unrealistic, they have been made by those who are not able to live up to it. The global economic crisis has nothing to do with their promises, and it has fallen out of its alibi for their incompetence, for their unhappiness, because what does the global economic crisis have to do with the wave of gatherings that took place in Serbia immediately after the formation of this government, immediately in September of the month we had so many gatherings, along with the 10% increase in pensions that the government is socially responsible, as the government loves to call itself, gave to pensioners. I have here a statement from a high-ranking official, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, who is the governor, who says this way: "On one side of the state, he increases pensions and profits, and then approves of the purchases that more money has been drawn from the citizens than they have received in that way. "That's true, because since September, we've had the first gas collection of 60%, and then the promise that that gas will be paid in several wars, or every month, and then 60% will be paid in one period, and in another 40%, of course, none of it turns out to be anything. Then we have an increase in the cost of all the energy. Let's say the power went up over 10%, then the phone services went up, the pulse would be 100% since January 1, and the price of the subscription went up from 74-75 dinars to over 290 dinars. Let's talk about what Serbian citizens have to pay for, because they have to feed. The meat that, according to our country's statistics, is 22%, in prices it looks like this: 367 dinars in November 2007 cost 367 per pound, now between 509 and 560 dinars. My math says it's much more than 22%. The coffee was 45 dinars, and now it's 47 dinars. Drymeat products are more expensive by over 11%. Sugar for over 10%. Duvan's already expensive, and now that a new year's excise is in place, you'll see how much he'll collect. The government does not care at all about those 10% of our citizens living on the poverty line, or below the poverty line. According to research, another 10% of our citizens feel subjectively so poor. We have one survey coming from the EU, to which attention should be paid, that is research done by the EU Statistical Bureau, which concerns the prices of 500 different food products. Research has been done in 37 countries in Europe. According to the survey, Serbia stands extremely poor because only in Latvia and Slovakia are food products cheaper than in Serbia. Of course, I'm talking about it when you compare the average income of the inhabitants of those countries with the prices that are in those countries. Serbia has the highest price rise in food products, during 2008 – 13.4%. Our agricultural products went up 28.5% last year. Then, oil that is more expensive than it is in the Netherlands and Germany. We have a situation where our clothes and shoes are among the most expensive in Europe. You can imagine, when compared to the profits of France and Serbia, that clothes and shoes in Serbia are more expensive than they are in France. We see that this trend of price growth and how it continues and we know that it has nothing to do with some other circumstances, except the rise in the price of the euro, or the drop in the value of the dinar. When I talk about the drop in the value of the dinars, I must say that every employee of Serbia is this government and President Tadic so far cost 50 euros, because so much is the difference in the value of our earnings compared to November 2007 and November 2008. So, for those 50 euros, how much each employee gives to the Serbian government a month to work, including statements by our government officials, the prime minister promised us that we would not starve next year. This is the first senior government official to open a story on hunger, and I think that story has to be realistically continued, and on the other hand, the prime minister of the scales, which the state of Serbia will take in the economy for 2009, says that we will not live worse than we did this year, which simply doesn't work out with each other. On the other hand, he was joined by a trade minister who says we won't be naked and barefoot. Simply, of those people who have promised European standards in the campaign and an increase in the standard of living of citizens, which is why citizens and elected them, and these are the same people who promise us today that we will not be naked, barefoot, hungry, forgetting that in Serbia, 10% of the population is really hungry. If you look at UNICEF's research and take care of how hungry Serbian children are, indeed, hungry, you will see that this is an extremely high percentage. I think we have to face it, that the government must first and foremost face how it will help these families, these poor citizens and poor children to get out of that vicious circle. On the other hand, with such a government and with such ministers, and above all with such a prime minister, who doesn't appear anywhere, except when he makes such statements, we won't be able to get out of this vicious circle, primarily starving. What the government certainly does not care about is the intelligence of Serbian citizens. Apparently, the government is underestimating and apparently speaking about it in a way that Serbian citizens will not know when they are hungry, barefoot and barefoot, unless someone informs them from President Tadic's cabinet. Look at this wave of unions talking about being deceived by this government, because something that Minister Ljajic signed with them for 2009 simply wiped out by the Serbian government. So, take care of the citizens of Serbia. You're talking about yourself being socially responsible to the government, and citizens tell you, if you look at it in the media, that you're the only socially responsible government towards yourself, that all other categories of citizens aren't even put in a slightly better position than when this government is formed, but on the contrary, they're being brought to the brink of existence. The middle layer, which, in the previous period of the two Governments of Vojislav Kostunica, began to form, slowly shifts into this layer of the poor, and again we will have a story, in which we found ourselves in 2000, that we have much more of those who are on the edge of poverty than those who are rich. In this Serbia, where you have those that you mark here as large, which is about the tycoons that finance your parties, they are really big, but this government shouldn't be responsible for them alone. This government, first of all, must be responsible for those who chose it, even though you violated your election promises, even though you made the government the way you made it. All right, so far you've been responsible to Manter, so let's go now and to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10377	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vladan Batic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10378	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I ask the question, do I not know whether the Government or the President of Parliament will find an extension of the importance of the old passports on the agenda? People on all sides ask that, it's New Year's Eve, Christmas, is now the most traveled, we're turning citizens into hostages, and you'll remember that Mr. Djelic, in the time of the previous government, promised that in March of this year, leaving, a new passport will be completed. In front of all the cameras are assigned these 50 new passports to the most successful young, perspective, talented, who will represent us in the world. Then it was found that these passports were fake, so for the second time the first 50 passports were assigned, so it was promised that by the end of the year we would be on the white Schengen list. "Don't take a donkey to green grass! "Now it is no longer promised that we will be on the White Schengen list by the end of 2009. People, because of these promises, rushed to the police station, or departments of the MUP to wait for new passports, and were exposed there for several hours and days to wait, with a variety of giggling. In the end, maybe one or two percent of the country's citizens received passports. What is this responsibility or irresponsibility that for 10 days until New Year's Eve, when people travel most abroad, they don't know if a passport of the previous state will apply?- I'm sorry. We don't have a passport, we don't have a passport, we have an SRJ passport. It's not even SCG, it's SRJ. Then we don't know if he's in or out. It doesn't make sense, because not all people go out to have fun, different people go abroad to visit their loved ones, go for medical help, for business, etc. Now they're terrified and they're thinking about whether or not they're going to cross the border with a travel document. This is an example of irresponsibility. I'm looking for an urgent answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10379	Thank you. Just to remind you that the 12th item of the agenda is the bill on amendments to the Law on travel documents, and we are currently at 9, we are discussing in particular, so that in this session we would have to end this. Before I give my word to Mr. Milos Aligrudic, who calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, only brief notices. At 12.00 hours is the Committee on Justice and Administration, in the Blue Salon; at 13.00 hours is the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, in the Third Floor Hall; at 1600 hours is the Committee on Urbanism and Construction, in the Hall on the Third Floor and, at 4.30 p.m. is the Committee on Finance, in the Blue Salon. The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10380	This question, which is a little bit, Mr Batic mentioned is very important, but I would very much like it, for the sake of respect for the dignity of this house, that MPs follow what is on the agenda of the National Assembly session, because on the agenda of this session, this issue is exactly the issue, and that deadline for issuing new travel documents is expected for these old ones not to cease to be valid until 31.12, which will certainly be done and there should be no concern. But this reminds me of something else. It reminded me that apparently the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot find a solution to the problems they have encountered, that there is no excuse that from May of this year until today, this process has been kept stalled, that there are different justifications that we have heard from the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to the fact that this process could not be carried out within the time limit that it was envisaged and that they are mainly linked to what is the print and the printing works belong to the National Bank of Serbia. And so it all goes on forever. I don't find, nor does my predecessor, an excuse for such a thing. As for that, it needs to be done. When it comes to the DSS and our affairs at the Home Office, we have in time made all the preconditions for this to end. There is no reason to wait for this, and what Serbian citizens should know, and all of our MPs who report for the word, either by the Rules of Procedure or otherwise, what is on the agenda and when it can be completed. Therefore, this matter of extending the period of validity of the passport is certainly over, certainly before the end of the year, long before that term and in that sense there should be no fear. I don't know, actually, what's the point of this reporting. Is the goal of bringing anxiety among the citizens, that something like this will not be over, as we're about to hear, say, yesterday in the B92 news. All night long, they've been smudged about it, even one entire contribution being made to the citizens, or the reporter intercepting citizens on the street and asking – what happens if your passports fail on January 31st, or January 1st? I think that campaign is being dragged by the ruling coalition. I think that, Mr. Batic, you, as everyone already knows, are part of that coalition and that this is what you do, not any of the DSS members or any of the others here in the Assembly, to encourage fear. As reportedly, the opposition rights some problem for Serbian citizens will not be passed a law that would extend the validity of passports, etc., which is, of course, incorrect. That's what's gonna happen, and I'm responsible for telling you that, as far as we're concerned, that's what's gonna happen. But the ruling coalition, Mr Batic, needs to answer the question – how it is possible that they have not proposed the 50 laws in the government of the Republic of Serbia that have promised to be proposed... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... By the end of the year, how is that possible, and there's no opposition out there that would jump up to them and report for replicas, according to the Rules of Procedure, or anything like that? They don't do anything there, that's the point of the story. It's not about the opposition... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10381	Thank you. The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10382	Of course I know it's on the agenda, but it's tragic that it's the 12th point of the agenda. We're already late. I'm not sure what you're predicting on behalf of the government, you've become, Mr. Aligrudic, in the meantime, a spokesman for the government, and I don't know how I am a member of the ruling coalition and who is one of the most fierce critics of the ruling coalition, so this is already late. The question is when it will arrive on the agenda, when it will vote, given that it is not for St. Nicholas, that there is already a Catholic Christmas coming and that we are already late, then it needs to be announced by the President, then it should be published in the Official Messenger and only then enter into force. Therefore, I have expressed a legitimate concern, but my question is not only to extend the importance of old travel documents, old passports of the SRJ, but also – at which rate citizens will be able to get new passports, passports of the Republic of Serbia, so that we no longer embarrass ourselves at the borders, showing up with passports of a state that is no more, because that is, you will admit, below all dignity. Of course, to the government that you represented and which was the last guardian of some Yugoslavia, which no longer exists, it didn't bother her, it even impromptu her. She's intimately probably hoping to re-establish some Yugoslavia, so it's a good thing we have those old passports. So that's the essence of my question. But to take this time and set it up, according to the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, two more questions to the Republic Prosecutor: When will the Topcider case be resolved? Why is the prosecution directly obstructing the determination of the truth about the death of two guards? Secondly, why is the prosecution obstructing the determination of truth in the case of the murder of Dade Vujasinovic? I'll answer you, behind both murders there are secret services and that's the answer in advance to why the prosecution is silent. Chuck, there's an identical handwriting of individuals in these two tragic events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10383	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10384	Mr. Batić, it is not unusual for any of us to report to be a spokesman for the ruling coalition, when they are villages, or be. Whatever we ask them, they don't answer to anything. We're asking them what's going on with the execution, when it comes to the Treasury, last year's budget, and there's no answer to the question. We ask them three or four questions from that area, to make it easier to prepare for budget work, or to prepare for amendments, and there is no answer to these questions. Whatever we ask them, there's no answer. What you're asking right now isn't going to come up with any answers, just because people aren't so keen, they don't have any answers to any questions. Of course, no one is their spokesman, but sometimes a man just feels the need to come out and say something on their behalf, so the truth works, so that it doesn't remain irresponsible because they're not capable of it, let alone anything else. Just so there's no misunderstanding between you and me, otherwise, as far as you're asking, I don't mind, you can go all day, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10385	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has tabled an amendment to Article 3. The bill so that the words "small and medium-sized legal persons" are replaced by the words "legal persons" in article 3. The position of the SRS is to comply with Article 84 and Article 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act must equalise the legal status and natural persons and all legal persons, and that it is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to discriminate against legal persons on small, medium and those legal persons who are not. After all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on this issue is quite clear. Article 84(1) The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says everyone has the same legal position on the market. The last view of this member says foreign persons are even on the market with their domestics. In Article 86. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be guaranteed private, cooperative and public property and that all forms of property have equal legal protection. The MPs of the SRS consider that what is written in both Articles 1 and 2 and in Article 3. The bill is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting to see that the Serbian government has explained why it does not accept the amendments of the People's MPs Milorad Buha, Vjerica Radete, Dejan Mirovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic gave a completely identical explanation. In doing so, some parts of this explanation I, in addition to my best wishes, cannot understand. In particular, Madam Minister, you said in an explanation why you do not accept these four amendments, including this: "The Republic of Serbia is on the point that under the conditions of the present financial market crisis it is necessary in addition to natural persons, to protect and listed economic operators, because they could suffer the greatest damage under such circumstances. "I don't understand, Madam Minister, why do you have the right to identify the Government of Serbia with the Republic of Serbia? Where does that say? Who has found that the Republic of Serbia stands at the point of view, etc?- I'm sorry. I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia stands at the point of view. The Serbian government is only one state body of the Republic of Serbia, as is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I guess the MPs sitting in this assembly, and MPs from the ruling parties and MPs of opposition parties, some Republika Srpska. How come only the government is the same as the Republic of Serbia? To tell you the truth - the Republic of Serbia stands at the point of view that this or that should be done. I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know which member of the Serbian Constitution you're pulling a full parallel between a state and a state body. It is indisputable that the Serbian government has the right to lead a certain policy. You can say -- the Serbian government thinks this or that, but you say, as a government, that the Republic of Serbia has politics in this or that area, it's really scandalous. I don't know if you've read it, Madam Minister, an explanation of why you don't accept these amendments, but look. We've called on, among other things, article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The subtitle above article 84 reads as follows: "The position on the market. "It is said that everyone has the same legal position on the market. You yourself, in the light of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, mention the word – the market. For example, in the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure: "The reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, resulting... ". It's not just a little dyspression, it's not, it's -- it's coming out, you're not going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going out, you're going from looking at the current problems on the financial market... "(Miss Minister, please, you will have time to talk to your colleague, but pay attention) "... from looking at the current problems on the financial market... ", it is indisputable that we are in the field of the financial market, "... and the need for more adequate arrangement of the conditions and modes of operation of all market participants, as well as the psychological factors caused by the need to provide investor security and adapt to the deposit insurance system in the countries in the environment and the countries of the European Union. "Listen to the genius of the Serbian government's explanation: "Besides, calling for an article. 84th and 86th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to which the MP is called in his explanation, is not adequate, since those members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulate the legal position on the market, i.e. the equality of all forms of property. "Miss Minister, I don't know what we're talking about. What are banks? To deal with the alphabet of financial law and financial business. Banks are institutions that trade money. Right? Wherever there's a store, there's a market. It is quite logical, then, that MPs are then called upon by the members of the Constitution who prescribe that they all have the same legal position on the market. When you say "all," you mean all legal entities. Who are the legal entities? Not just in the Republic of Serbia, everywhere in the world. Physical and legal. If the Constitution says – everyone has the same legal position on the market, on each market, among other things, and on the financial market, in the banking market, it is quite logical to place natural persons and all legal persons in the same legal position, so that there is no discrimination between legal persons. You say not all legal faces, but only "small" and "medium". The constitution does not say so, does not say the Constitution – natural persons, small and medium-sized legal persons have the same legal position on the market, and others, they have some specific position that will be regulated by some law, some other regulation. No, he's saying "all"! In every legal system, legal entities are natural and legal persons. If the Constitution says - everyone, I really don't understand where you found the basis to make a difference in legal faces to'small and medium-sized legal faces'. Madam Minister, I would like to say a few sentences about this famous message from the Serbian government, that citizens, due to the major global financial crisis, should tighten the belt. Every day we can hear from individual ministers in the government of Serbia as citizens tighten the belt, so, among other things, on the case of the ministers themselves. As you've heard from Mrs. Faith Radate, some of them turn off the light when they come out of the apartment. I've just read in some newspapers that Mr. Radovan Jelasic doesn't buy, he, his wife and his children, the company's wardrobe, because it's, it says, small-town, they don't drive in expensive cars, they drive small cars that spend a little bit, etc. So it's a recipe for how citizens should tighten their belts. If you want, Madam Minister, you personally and your government in which you are sitting, to respond to the demands of the time we live in, the time in which we live is difficult, the time of crisis at European level, at the world level, and that crisis slowly but surely, unfortunately, claps the Republic of Serbia, what you should have done if you really wanted to tighten the belt. What you're saying to turn off the light when you leave the apartment, that the water heater in the bathroom doesn't burn all day, etc., that's stories for little children – what should you do, as responsible ministers and as people who run the government of the Republic of Serbia, that you asked me or that you asked the SRS, that you asked every man who knows what household business is? You don't have children alone, I have children, and I know what it's like to run a household. What were you supposed to do if you wanted to be a real home government? To enter into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, to reduce the number of ministries. This is how the belt is tightened, gentlemen of the Ministers, not by ordering citizens – don't buy shorts, don't wear a firm wardrobe. Who among these people who have been protesting these days in front of the Serbian government and in front of the National Assembly is wearing a firm wardrobe?- I'm sorry. You laugh at those people in the face. The state needs to tighten the belt, Madam Minister. Reduce the number of ministries. Why do you need 24 ministries in the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Just to remind you, from 1862, when the first Law was adopted on the establishment of a central state administration under the Prince Michael, until 1918, at the time of the Serbian state's greatest bloom, the political, economic, cultural, military, Serbia had, Madam Minister, seven ministries. It wasn't every time new ministries were formed whenever a new government was formed, as you are now doing, so before the government is formed, you put the Assembly's law on ministries on the agenda. Well, every government has a different number of ministries. In a well-organised state, as was once Serbia, the number of ministries has not changed every year. That's when Serbia knew how to tighten the belt. They don't make up new ministries every year. You had to enter into the assembly procedure a draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act or proposing a whole new law on ministries, reducing the number of ministries. You must tell your colleagues in the Serbian government, what they need 10 and 15 different advisers, state secretaries, ministerial assistants, etc.? It turns out that in this government, which tells citizens to tighten the belt, no one does anything, but everyone advises each other. I don't know what you're consulting about. Furthermore, our eyes are being created, I repeat by who knows which time and the SRS repeatedly points to, at a time when the borders in Europe are reportedly being torn down, when there are no borders, when it travels freely from Great Britain to Greece, someone on Savi and Dunava is building a border between the so-called. Serbia's and Vojvodina's ropes. Do you know, Madam Minister, how many regional secretariats there are in your democratic, European and who knows what kind of non-Vojvodjan government, run by Bojan Pajtic? Do you know how many regional secretaries there are? How many different deputies are there? How many different assistants are there? How many different smart-asss do nothing but sell the fog that the people of Vojvodina will live better when they separate from the rest of Serbia?- I'm sorry. We are devoting a great deal of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, according to the Constitution, for the AP Vojvodina budget. There are many MPs here from Vojvodina. Ask them – do the people of Vojvodina live better because they have sixteen regional secretariats, because there is a great province administration? Instead of separating the money from Serbia's budget for the needs of the people of Vojvodina, for the needs of the economy in Vojvodina, for the purposes of this poor and scattered agriculture, which you have led to a beggar stick, you are funding newly-saded bastards who have done nothing else in life, but, as one former minister would say, have been dealing with politics since childhood. That's why it serves the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Ministers and you, Mrs. Dragutinović, if you'd like the belt to be tightened, you'd better get away from yourself. It is easy to tighten the belt of a poor man who is hungry and thirsty, who is eager for everything. Fasten your belt to those who have, so when you tighten the belt for those who have, we will be easy with those who have nothing. Then whoever has nothing will have something. This way, the state is getting fatter and fatter, and the people are getting poorer and poorer. Believe me, Mrs Dragutinovic, it's the best evidence, the best indicator, that with this government, indeed, there's something seriously wrong. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10387	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. According to the amendment, MP Milan Dimitrijevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10388	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, in Article 3 of this deposit insurance law, submitted an amendment, where she predicted that instead of saying "small and medium-sized legal persons" the words "legal persons". What's this about? Perhaps Mrs Pop-Lazic read the Constitution and saw that the constitutional category of "small and medium-sized legal persons" in the Constitution does not exist. That's what we're talking about. 83rd and 84th Constitution. Where did you find in the Constitution that there are "small and medium-sized legal persons"? So let's say, instead of these adjectives, let's say, put the nouns on, and let's say "yellow and red legal faces." Let's put them to be big citizens, such as the Director of the Central Register, whose salary is 14,000 euros or Bojan Kristo, and make them big legal persons or big citizens, so the middle faces that have, say, 300-400 thousand, then small legal persons who have a salary of 100,000, and then come up with the least legal person called the hungry people. As far as this law is concerned, the DSS filed a law two months ago relating to deposit insurance. What did the government do? She threw him off the table and said, "No, that's not necessary, because there's no crisis." Then we heard from individual representatives of the government that the crisis is welcome to us, that Serbia will profit from this global economic crisis. The whole world lies and stands up with concern about how to overcome the economic crisis, and officials of our government say that we welcome the crisis and that Serbia will profit from it. So, a very, very interesting thing. When we talk about all of this, it's simply an opportunity to look back on some of the things that are happening in this country, and so that we can look back on it, we should start from something that's a basic document. The document is called the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. You had six points there, and the fourth point is to strengthen the government's social responsibility. All parliamentary groups, and I hope that you, too, Madam Minister, have received a letter from the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia since 12.12.2008, refers to one document, to the signing of the extended fact of the general collective agreement. What's the deal about? To help employees of 15% of the average personal salary, there are approximately two million in Serbia and a one-time aid payment of 85% of the average salary in Serbia, in the name of regression and a warm meal. When we figure it all out, it comes out about two billion euros. When we talked about budget rebalancing, I asked this question, because there was a suspicion that there was no such money. I asked you, do you have that money to pay? We don't! The minister signed the contract with trade unions on extended action, he says to people -- you'll be paid under that extended contract, and you say -- there's no money. So what do we do now? Who made the problem? The opposition made a problem?- I'm sorry. The opposition promised?- I'm sorry. The opposition is holding back European integration, not having a debate in the Assembly?- I'm sorry. We pass the law, and the law is not considered. We say there are no real circumstances regarding the extended collective agreement, the minister signed, and we're asking you now – do you have money, and you say you don't have money. Right, Mr. Kiriq, you said there's no money. That's what you'll explain to the citizens of Serbia. It was well signed on November 6, 2008. The extended fact of the general collective agreement concerns all employers in Serbia. What will employers do now in Serbia, when there is no such money? How do we solve this problem? Well, they're solving, here's tens of thousands of people blown off, so next year we're going to fire another fifty, 100,000 or maybe more, so we're not going to have that number of employees, so we're not going to be able to apply the extended fact of the general collective contract, so here's the problem. Socially responsible Government solved the problem! The Socially Responsible Government wants to unilaterally implement the Transition Trade Agreement. Is there any damage to the state? All economists say there will be damages of about 300m euros. There won't be any money in the budget. And how are we going to solve this problem? By the fact that excise duties, by taxing, by the current going up, and the basic provisions of life, are going to cost 20% of the vehicle registration, and you said that there's going to be who knows the size of those categories of over 3,000 cc's, etc. So, what's that? The Socially Responsible Government is dragging its hand into the already empty pocket of the half-hungry population to compensate for the deficit in the state register because of the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement. So you're doing wonderfully, simply, the man who comes out on the street hears the general moan and moaning, and panic over the socially responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia! Who knows how many questions we've asked you here? The time limit for answering the asked question was eight days, it's been a month, and there's no answer. And why isn't he here? Because you don't have an answer, or you don't know him. I've pointed out the case of this deposit law. You explain to someone who reads the laws where you find small and medium-sized legal persons. Where does that say in the Constitution? What law does that say? Why don't you read the first basics, capital law, how it determines certain things, and then enter the writing and law-making procedure? At the same time, when laws are delivered to you, when you warn yourself of a particular kind of problem for you, these laws do not apply and do not exist. What are you doing with them? Throw them away, huh? We and the presidents of the assembly delivered certain requirements and laws, I discussed important issues, important to the state and to the people, so we got the answer – well, this law was not when I was appointed to be president of the Assembly. So we asked what you did with that proposal, is that thrown, is the problem solved? Well, it's not a problem solved! A series of questions, hundreds, no answers, at least not too high. And then we hear from the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, when it comes out for a pay phone, as the opposition says is blocking the work of the Assembly, because important laws, which are important, cannot come to order, they are not being discussed, and they are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Whenever a problem is raised that needs to be seriously discussed, someone always makes such a fuss in this country, he raises so much dust about some irrelevant things, not to discuss what is important to this people. We heard nice from the Prime Minister, and I'll do it again, six points. So take this exposé with you once and see what man has said: the definition of Serbia's European future, not accepting the independence of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija, the necessity of strengthening the economy, strengthening the government's social responsibility, strengthening the fight against crime and corruption, respect for international law. What did you fill out from those six points? None! Of all six dots, no pedals, no centimetres. Strengthening the economy. How did you strengthen the economy? By firing tens of thousands of people in Serbia. Is that strengthening the economy?- I'm sorry. Did you strengthen the economy by bringing in "Fiat" and "Fiat" firing workers? Have you preserved the independence of Kosovo and Metohija?- I'm sorry. You brought Eulex. Well, do you read, do you follow what foreign officials say about the Eulex mission? Which is one of these six points where you made any serious shift? None! So every day with you, for this people and for this country, is a waste of time. Every day and every hour with you is a path to poverty, to hopelessness. When such a kind of scandal occurs in one country, and these scandals have been several in the last 20 days, the minister comes out and resigns, and then the cabinet thinks whether the entire government will fall or not, and by its own means the government should fall, because it is irresponsible, because it is inconclusive. You have invented a package of law on justice, and we have some laws waiting, such as the visa regime, we are talking about a set of judicial laws that will apply from 1 January 2010, and we have not solved the passport problem, by emergency procedure. We have been discussing this for ten days and the MPs of the opposition and the positions are fully coming out and talking and saying – the law is not right, withdraw it and the proposal for the High Council of the Judiciary is not good. We've been doing this for ten days, we're wasting time on it, and there's more important laws, then you go out and you say the opposition's been holding the Assembly back. How dare you say that? Who's wasting time on things that don't matter? Well, most of them don't. That's why it can't survive anymore. That's why, because eleven parties can't run this country, because it's the result of such a coalition of personal interests, and that's what we've shown who knows how many times on who knows how many examples. Here, we wait for the matter of trust to be brought to the government. We'll wait, Madam Minister, and this new budget. You'll see how many illogical things there are. And we'll all be able to argue with that. But not to be like a rebalance, when we point out some things in the budget, we don't want to get answers that don't have anything to do with that matter. These are the questions we ask you every day, and you have no answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10389	Thank you. The 4th amendment includes the afternoon MP Arsen Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr Miroslav Petkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10390	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, did not listen to my proposal a few days ago, State Secretary Mr Ilic is still sitting next to you. In December, we came in this assembly to discuss the first measure of the government of the Republic of Serbia to combat the economic crisis. Let me remind you, both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia, that the DSS has launched this topic since the principle debate on budget rebalancing. Namely, of all those announced measures, we have received some suggestions, but the question is when will they be on the agenda. I'll remind you that there's also been an announcement of tax cuts on savings, the elimination of capital gains, the abolition of taxes on the transfer of absolute rights and a series of measures, but obviously we won't be discussing this year. Meanwhile, the Budgetary System Act has been broken. Today is December 15th, we were scheduled to adopt the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. After three weeks of negotiations with the IMF, during which you heard all the objections brought to you by DSS MPs and opposition party MPs, we received information a few days ago that the IMF will discuss the proposed agreement only half of January. Meanwhile, the measures were only taken by the NBS, by trying to maintain the value of the dinars and which was sold in the interbank market only in November of more than 400m euros. According to some data, more than a billion euros were used for this purpose this year. But we're going in a row. On 8 October 2008, the DSS MPs submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. In this proposal, we suggested that this guaranteed amount be raised from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros. In this regard, we had in mind that the practice in EU countries was to make that amount 20,000. After the start of the economic crisis, many countries raised the amount to 50,000 euros, some countries, such as Germany, put an unlimited deposit. We had in mind the possibilities that our country can fulfill and with what amount it can guarantee all the savings roles of those people who have roles in banks. I will remind you once again, a session of the Assembly Committee on Finance was held on 9 October, where DSS MPs are in the most terrible way possible accused of spreading panic, bringing unrest among Serbian citizens and there is no excuse to increase the secured deposit, that no legal analysis has been carried out, that this amount is not the one that should be practically guaranteed. We've heard percentages, we've heard data, we've heard it's just a beautiful story, and it's basically pure demagogy. What I call after-memory, Serbian Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic recalled on October 20th, when he presented at a press conference the first time that the amount of 3,000 euros would be increased to 50,000 euros per role and would temporarily abolish the savings tax. Mr Cvetkovic announced on that occasion that an increase in the secured savings role would be considered and to 100,000 euros if there is a need for it. He also announced that the capital gains tax would be abolished, as well as the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. We may have slept through it, but I'm sure none of these proposed measures have been announced in the RS Official Messenger. Also, an increase in excise duties on fuel by 4 dinars per litre was announced. After that, the DSS has already proposed on October 31st that the National Assembly form a committee to monitor the global economic crisis and take measures to mitigate the negative impacts on the economy and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that the IMF has made the same proposal. In this decision, we wanted to propose that the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the finance minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the governor of the NBS, the president of the Securities Commission, be elected by one representative of each parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So all those officials and all those responsible persons were supposed to be spending months in both this National Assembly and the Finance Committees, discussing these problems and trying to find a solution. Obviously, we had no understanding of it. He followed the invitation of Prime Minister Cvetkovic to opposition parliamentary groups to hold some talks. As far as I'm aware, the coffee or tea that was drunk at these talks has not produced any results, the citizens of Serbia are no better, because all of the suggestions that the DSS MPs were making here, above all, are not respected. You have not allowed this commission to be formed, so we have tried, in the form of parliamentary issues, which we have writtenly delivered at the beginning of this month, to get answers to the most important topics that are, above all, related to the adoption of the 2009 budget, but also to many of the measures that should have already been adopted in this assembly. Unfortunately, today is December 15th, the day of the vote on the Republic of Serbia's budget, and these measures have not yet been proposed and we have nothing of this, we have no feedback, so we insist that before the debate on the budget we get answers to our parliamentary questions, so that we can discuss these issues adequately. The DSS Group also submitted a number of legislative proposals to respond as soon as possible: the law on income tax for citizens, amendments and additions to the National Bank Act. None of that has yet to come up on the agenda, but there are days, and we'll talk about it. Let me remind you, November 14th, that means a month ago, a debate has begun on this law that we are discussing in particular today. At that time, Ms. Minister Diana Dragutinovic said in her opening statement that the state must react quickly, but as our people say "as fast as possible, it is also short". All we've done in this law, practically, is restore trust, or desire to regain trust, if in part this trust is lost. Trust has certainly been lost, but nearly a billion euros have been lost to keep this trust artificially through the media. After that, we have a debate on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, which has nine members, on which 12 amendments have been tabled, three of which have been accepted. The DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 4. In fact, this law proposes exactly what we proposed on 8 October 2008, to increase the security amount from 3,000 to 20,000, although unwarranted, the government found amendments and additions to the law to raise the amount to 50,000. What is in Article 4, which we have submitted to the amendment, reads: "The guaranteed amount set out in this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia may increase according to the previously obtained opinion of the National Bank of Serbia that this increase is necessary in order to preserve financial stability". This would also mean that in some negotiations between the government and the NBS, without a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this amount can be changed. We find that absolutely inadmissible. If there is a need for these measures, it must pass through the National Assembly and can only be passed in law form. What is our biggest remark, which government and what government should consider increasing the secured deposit? We saw the other day, in a joint session of two committees, that two ministers tell a completely different story, as if they represent two different governments, as if they represent two different states. I remind you, this government has 25 ministries, one without a portfolio, this government has 62 state secretaries. The two ministers cannot agree, and 62 state secretaries will sit down and bring recovery measures to Serbia's economy. What is the key question: from which sources, Mrs Dragutinovic, our people say "it is not stripping" and not only "which is fast, it is also short", because for 50,000 euros you have no coverage, at least I didn't find it in the 2009 budget proposal, or in some other sources, there are no funds in the budget. I'm sure this is a nice story for the citizens of Serbia, but God forbid it happens, I'm sure they won't be able to meet these proposals that are included in this law. In fact, what is even surprising is the amendment from one ruling party, which reduces the deadline from 90 to 30 days. That's what Mr. Senic put up with. So the banks should meet their legal obligation within 30 days. I support it if someone comes out here and explains to me what means and how they can do it within such short notice. Mrs Dragutinović, I remind you once again, that is what I said in the debate on budget rebalancing, today is a chance to get out of this mess in a dignified way and to resign as finance minister today, because after the debate on the budget, believe me, may Mr God help you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10391	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Jovan Palalic, so if all goes well, Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10392	Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. A question for the president of the National Assembly, and I'll explain why for the president of the National Assembly. Given that we have received information that there have been major problems in the Belgrade City Assembly and that the session has been interrupted, because the President of the Assembly, Mr Belic, has resigned again, we remember last year, and there is no one to hold the presidency, and we know what the consequences were when it happened in 2007, and what all the problems were in the National Assembly. Please, this time, the president of the National Assembly, that the Members of the People's Parliament should be informed and that, of course, the assembly majority in the city of Belgrade respects the law, as the National Assembly again this time, because it was the will of the ruling majority, would not come into the situation to discuss illegalities in the Belgrade City Assembly, and that again someone would not accuse us of obstructing the assembly. I ask you to make every effort to comply with the law and general acts of the Belgrade City Assembly, to carry out regular work there, so that the National Assembly does not have to discuss problems in the Belgrade City Assembly, and we all remember the extent to which it was the subject of the debate during 2007. The information says that there are major problems in the Belgrade City Assembly, that breaks are under way, and the question is how will all this end in the end. I urge here that the law be respected and that everything be done so that the problems in the city of Belgrade would not again be the subject of debate in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10393	Thank you. Your question will certainly be forwarded to the President of the Assembly as soon as he arrives in the Assembly. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10394	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, you see how the Parliament and how the government thinks of you. She thinks, because if we remember in the election campaign how, let me say, DS, unfortunately, this European DS, thought of you, and now, suddenly, she's blind and deaf – she's all forgotten what she promised in the election campaign. She promised you a good fortune, she promised you that you wouldn't lose your job, she promised you that you would receive, those who work, regular salaries, she promised to export, she promised only what we had to import, or what we couldn't produce in our factories. What actually happened? Here, we who are not economists sometimes wonder, and here are the experts, so they can probably give a certain answer. I'm asking, what about the dinar, in eight years' time, how much did the dinar devalue? If you look at the prices that were compared to the mark at the time, eight years ago, and how much today when it's the euro, don't just talk about single-digit inflation, and it actually exceeded the three-digit, four-digit, so maybe 50% went beyond devaluation of its value. If you look, ladies and gentlemen, in these eight years, how many people are out of a job. If you remember that false flossule of certain of your economists, experts who spoke, the sooner you run out of work, the faster you'll start working. I'm asking you, did these people who lost their jobs, over a million, start working?- I'm sorry. Look, from month to month, a growing number of people are out of a job! Don't fake it, why do you keep cheating on citizens? And when this unstable government of yours starts working, you turn to the opposition looking at the opposition as the only salvation for what you promised in the election campaign. Look, if you just look back at something that was once the future of this Serbia, and that's scientific research, you'll see what level it's at now? What steps are these people in science today? Why don't you ask yourself -- where in eight years are those young people who finished colleges, where are they, where are they? Nowhere! They had to leave. Therefore, the method of white visa Schengen is a unique method applied by every regimeal authority when it was unable to provide jobs for young people or citizens of the country. And you resort to it, that method, so you can send them into the white world. But where to send them, when even in the white world, there's no way that people can make money for themselves anymore. That's what I'm telling you, because many of you, most of you, have worked in non-productive enterprises. Look where these manufacturing companies are today. And non-productive enterprises are public enterprises or certain social institutions that are not involved in production. That's where you tried, in fact, to hire your political like-mindeds, or people you probably promised certain employment and who meant something to you in that political campaign of yours. I speak on behalf of thousands of workers who are in the election campaign... Can I talk? I'm sorry. Please, let's hear from each other. )......................................................................................................... Representatives of the government, especially the G17 plus, have made many different promises. You remember that Mladjan Dinkic, on this last board and the confrontation between Minister of Economy and Energy Minister Mr. Skundric, a respected professor, woke up after eight years. He woke up eight years later, ladies and gentlemen, saying that the privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia is not profitable! I ask you, how did he not wake up to say about the privatisation of many Serbian businesses, companies that produced and hired these millions of workers? What did not prove to be the patriot when Sartid was stolen, and when, and how, and in what way is one of the most profitable and most recent factories in Europe, which is the White Lim Factory in Sapac, how did not then wake up "young" Mladjan Dinkic?- I'm sorry. No, ladies and gentlemen, because he's probably been asleep for eight years. He woke up when business banks were to be destroyed, those banks that were created by small, small, so I called them businessmen, craftsmen, and the banks that were liquid, he destroyed them then, led them to the brink of destruction and those little, tiny craftsmen. E; this is what Mladjan Dinkic did, and not only G17 plus, but this ruling DS coalition, because DS has been in power all these eight years. She tried sometimes as well as to get out of power, but indirectly ruled this Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, look and imagine what a common citizen's life is today. When a citizen gets up in the morning and needs to feed his children – where and how? Well, that's actually what a host of a house should think about, and the host of Serbia is Boris Tadic. He is both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. In a pre-election campaign, together with Mladjan Dinkic and all others with whom he is now in the coalition, he said that in this country, in this troubled Serbia, honey and milk will still suffer. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look, once again I tell you, where is agriculture, where are those big giants who worked for agriculture, when I say they worked, who produced these certain resources, so they're gone. See how you destroyed those companies that produced seed goods, the best quality seed goods in the world, what is it today? Today on the Serbian market, what has been created for centuries by genetic potential in Serbia is being destroyed because of the improvement, but you will not admit it today – this scientific research work that was to be found at a higher level of its development and more attention is being paid to it, that was what Serbia was once proud of for producing great experts, world-class experts. You know where "Vinca" used to be, and where it is today, where it is fateful with which Serbia had, but by destroying everything and everything, by destroying the greatest, strongest, you have contributed that Serbia and the Serbian people had reached the beggar stick. You keep saying in the pre-election campaign that the previous period was so difficult, that Serbia was very hard to live and that the one that Serbia led to Serbia is reportedly the only one who leads to the future. And what happened in the end? You are now trying to set certain laws, certain transactions, to accuse the opposition of not living better in Serbia today, because the opposition Serbia is obstructing this largest legislative body. But this legislative body, ladies and gentlemen, it's only on paper. Serbia is ruled by tycoons, Serbians are ruled by criminals, Serbians are ruled by those who are rich in a suspicious way, so now they are trying or trying to wash their money in this time. That, ladies and gentlemen, is present today in Serbia. That's why it should work to fight corruption and crime. You pass all these laws how it should work, but no law finds its implementation, very soon afterwards it is placed in a basket, and therefore, because individuals among you need to be hit. Look at these people standing here in front of the presidency for a few days, in the wind, in this basket, in the rain, expecting an answer. These are the people who worked in those slave houses, and they told me that one of them died. No one will come out to answer their demands. Those demands are certainly not insignificant. It's their fight for their survival. And the government doesn't think, the ministries don't think about Serbian citizens at all. It's important to you, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the distribution of a place in the ministries, who and how certain ministries will take over. You see how you intertwine, so Rasim Ljajic catches those great heroes instead of turning to the social structure of the citizens, to see how children who are without parents live in these social institutions, and how can they be provided with food or better living conditions? No, he's interested in keeping the government, he's interested in what he promised there in The Hague tribunal or certain Hague villains to deliver to them or to deliver to them our greatest heroes, which is, and I think, what is the main factor of this government. Remember that among these 12,000 people, there are many poor. When you look from the south to the north of Serbia where these great giants were, you will see how much poverty has hit Serbia today. It doesn't interest you at all, it's important that we get nice salaries here, it's important that we get nice journals here, it's important that the climate, we don't think about those who need to get through this sweat and blood sweat to provide us with the state, and probably we can rob them here too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10395	National MP Meso Omerovic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Article 225. I request further information from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, on the events in SO Sjenica. In fact, this morning at 11 o'clock is the regular session of SO, in which those who represented the ruling coalition by yesterday in all possible ways, in an illegal way, in a way that violates the security of both the board and the citizens of SO Sjenica, tried to prevent the newly established ruling coalition from taking over the normal functioning of SO Sjenica. I therefore ask the President of Parliament to ensure, above all, the smooth functioning of the local self-government of the Sjenica in accordance with the law, and to the friends of the Party of Democratic Action and to the G17 Plus, who until this morning carried out power and acted as a ruling coalition, I pray that they do not in any way influence the heating of passion and that something seems to disrupt public order and peace. Namely, I appeal once again to those who have lost power today from 11 o'clock to do nothing that can lead to a disturbance of public order and peace. We have information that a man has been injured and that is why I am using this right of my own, I apologize, dear fellow Members of Parliament, for requesting intervention in accordance with Article 225 of the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly to seek further information. I would remind you that the Sandzak Democratic Party, since 11 May, when it was the opposition to the SO Sjenica, has not caused any problems for those who have made the ruling coalition, and therefore I pray and appeal to them, although they have lost power, is not the power of everything in life, perhaps one day to regain power in the Shadow, in some other municipalities, as of today, at 11 o'clock, the ruling coalition consists of some other parties, not the SDA and the G17, to ensure normal functioning of SO Sjenica. Because, first of all, it is in the interest of the citizens of the Senate and I hope it is the only way not to send a bad message to other local self-government again. That's why this intervention of mine and another apology to all my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10397	Thank you. Your proposal and request will be forwarded to the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly immediately. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10398	Before I start speaking specifically about this amendment relating to Article 4. In the introduction of the bill, I must draw attention to what was the main topic this morning, and that is this attempt to place natural and legal faces in the same basket. Because the government has introduced the terms "small and medium-sized enterprises", "small and medium-sized legal persons" from the first member of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. It caused one, not only legal, but even constitutional problem. The purpose of this deposit insurance law is to guarantee that the state guarantees the savings roles and deposits of natural persons. The natural person is a citizen because the citizen also belongs to sovereignty in the Republic of Serbia. In the initial text, or the text of the law that applies today, it applies only to the deposits of natural persons with banks. That's a good solution, because, as a guarantee, the government's obligation exists towards citizens, according to natural persons, not legal persons. So this story, which was run about this morning – small or medium-sized enterprises or small and medium-sized legal entities, derived from that company, is a completely unconstitutional category for this law. So, the state only guarantees where it makes the commitment. To make you understand that, I'm going to take an example that you all know. The state prescribes the obligation to provide mandatory pension, disability and health insurance. There's a guarantee state here. But it can only be guaranteed by natural persons, by citizens, according to what holds the sovereignty of this state. The legal person does not bear sovereignty. There's the beginning and the end of the story. What, though, makes this subject interesting? What motivated the government to suggest that this law extend, alongside the natural persons and to two other categories of legal persons? They were motivated by the change of bases, the increase of foundations, the apparent increase in bank liabilities, the apparent increase in deposit insurance funds, and thus creating a fiction of greater guarantee and the higher amount of funds provided. But it's just fiction. Because the way the legal person's resources are available and the way the natural person's assets are available is completely different. So, the provision, and the provisions, where besides or behind the word "physical person" is added "legal person", in any variant, as "little and medium", is a deeply unconstitutional provision. That's the first thing you should know. The second thing, which refers specifically to Article 4. The bill's proposal is that the proposaler allows the government to change the amount secured independently of the law by formulating Article 4. To be more precise, a change of law is required here by ensuring the amount would be up to 50,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, etc. Article 4 gives the government a chance to change that. That can't be done with the law. The government would be empowered under certain conditions that resemble indexation to change the amount of the amount secured. But Article 4 does not talk about indexation, but talks about some new imaginary conditions that need to be met, where the government is deeply entrenched in what is legislative jurisdiction. In this regard, Arsen Đuric's previous amendment, which asked for Article 4 to be deleted, is correct. So it's a more legally correct amendment than this amendment that I'm explaining, which is a kind of innovation, which would be a financial risk. So these are some frames. The law would make sense if only one member, where there were 3,000 euros, had been put in 50,000 euros and no other intervention was needed anymore. There's the beginning and the end of this story. But looking at this bill and this government initiative, I get the impression that we're doing unnecessary work. First and foremost, we have such a difficult condition that it can't be harder. You remember how often I asked some questions from here that the National Bank of Serbia would answer what happened to the foreign reserve. I kind of came up with some data. Here, for the public, to read the data I have. "The National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves consist of: 1) foreign exchanges held in accounts with other central banks"... First of all, that's where the Central Bank of Germany and the U.S., and maybe a few other central banks of some major states... "as with first-class banks in the world. These foreign exchange funds are kept in the form of deposits.' (We are talking about foreign reserves. ) ''2) foreign exchanges invested in government bonds of the most developed countries in the world... ", that is, above all, Germany, the United States, Great Britain and Canada. Our foreign exchange reserves are in the government bonds of these states. These countries now have big problems on their financial market... "and bonds issued by international financial organisations, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and other international institutions of the banking system; ''3) gold." The smaller part is held in gold, and that amount is increased by the purchase of gold bars from domestic gold production. "4) foreign currency foreign currency foreign reserve reserves held in the National Bank of Serbia, which can be paid to banks for the needs of the population, such as: foreign savings, exchange transactions, etc.; ''' ''5) specially trained rights and reserve positions at the IMF. "That's not so much trouble. What are the foreign reserves managed by the National Bank of Serbia for? 1) To reconcile the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards foreign creditors, not to enter into details. 2) Maintaining the stability of the dinar course. So, the stability of the dinar course is maintained by the intervention of the National Bank of Serbia on the interbank foreign exchange market, which so far seems to me to be over 650m euros, and the aim of the intervention is to alleviate excessive exchange changes in the exchange rate towards the euro. It means that the domestic currency is preserved. 3) They serve to maintain the stability of the banking system. I can't figure that out at all. We have the safest banking system. It is based on principle – our banks have been killed, new banks have come. I urge this model to be applied to the United States, Great Britain, where they are convulsing with financial problems. I can't wait to take Dinkic and Jelasic out, world-renowned experts, leaders. Furthermore, they are used to protect against the adverse effects of international financial crises. If you consider the size of our foreign exchange reserves, we are absolutely protected on paper. But as far as the exchanges are concerned, you've seen where they are. So I don't spend a lot of time, because I can talk about this for three days. This is important -- "The National Bank of Serbia manages foreign reserves" as they say, "conservatively, especially in the conditions of the global financial crisis. '"I don't get it. "Most of the foreign exchange reserves of about 86% are stored in other central banks," America, Germany, that's the concept, "and America and England will be a land of proletarian", our foreign currency there, 'or invested in state securities of value,' and you know how these charters go with them, 'or in charters of value of international financial organisations. '"I'm so embarrassed, there's hope, to hear this data, there's very important data for that story about the crowbars that need to be kept. What can I do? Hope escapes me. ''Only a portion of about 4% of foreign exchange reserves are on the accounts of commercial first-class ratings, which are not at risk of the financial crisis, while about 10% of the reserves are in gold and effective foreign money. '"So, the situation is clear. From the point of view of the title and the names of the bank and the places where our national reserves are located – we are insured. From the point of view of financial problems in these countries, we've cracked like a rattle. It's all the result of a perilous policy that's been going on for eight years, and only the actors change, the first ones, on the list that implement these measures. For starters, I'd like to draw your attention to a few more significant data. Remember this, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the data refers to the period 2001 to 2008. The stock deficit per year was in billions of euros, 2001 – 2.86 billion; 2002 – 3.73; 2003 – 4.15; 2004 – 5.79; 2005–4.83; 2006 – 5.36; 2007 – 7,07; 2008 – 6.9, which is for the first ten months, although these two months are being introduced where 1.5 are planned, and if all of this is collected by years, that is 42.19. Let me draw your attention to you, Mr. Ilic, in 2001, when you took over power, not you but these real sectors in 2001 took part in a total gross social product with 54.16%, while the neural sector participated with 45.84%. In 2006, look at what change, the real sector participates with 40.37% and the non-slave sector nearly 60%. So, in just six years, domestic goods production has been reduced by a quarter, more specifically by 25.5%. Domestic production is shut down, goods are imported and budget structure is the same, unless there are imports, there is no budget. That's the whole story. So, where do we go with this government? I have to inform the sympathisers, the members and officials of the Democratic Party, I told you a few months ago, don't look forward to it when the bear plays outside some doors, because it can throw a bullet in front of your door. It seems to me that the match plays in front of your door, Kruševac, here, Belgrade, that I don't order any further. I'm not like you, I'll tell you right now. That internal turmoil, it's a purely internal thing. If those internal turmoils cross over here in terms of mandates, we will always support your return to the number you won in the election. That's where you'll be safe. We will always support you in respecting the electoral will of the citizens, and in the next election, whatever happens. This is just for the sake of principle. This is just to make you realize that 1,600, 1,200 times, as Hope said, how many times did it get out of here, to distract you from taking a bad lead on the state, to lead it in the wrong direction. I hope in one of the next announcements I can tell you about how many people lost their jobs thanks to how you don't know how to run politics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10399	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10400	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected ministers, is December 15th and instead of congratulating the citizens of Serbia with a new budget, we must realise that the Serbian government has violated the Constitution. In every normal country where ministers are honorable and honest, as far as such a gesture is concerned, ministers resign. On several occasions, our MPs have told you about it and told you that it is time, Mrs Dragutinovic, that you are already resigning, since we do not have the budget today. To remind Serbian citizens that this deposit insurance law, i.e. The draft deposit insurance law of the DSS submitted on 8 October. The law says the DSS is facing problems, not as some opposition parties just to criticise, but we want to solve citizens' problems. Our draft law speaks of the increase of the deposit from 3,000 to 20,000 and that's what's real, and the state has suggested that it be 50,000 euros. What makes it normal and realistic to be 20,000 euros? In light of the fact that the previous two Governments of Vojislav Kostunica have left budget reserves of about nine billion and three hundred, so much has been reported to this government that the heritage, when we take everything realistic, we see that at the moment when the depositors from the banks would withdraw their foreign savings funds so that the state would be in a deficit of about 500 million dinars and therefore we say that this figure of 20,000 euros is extremely real. Some countries in our environment have regulated this law that the state guarantees 50, 100 and more thousands of euros, but since we are one poor country, our government has defined itself to 50,000 euros, which is extremely unrealistic at the moment. We were asking the governor of the National Bank, Mr. Jelasic, what are the current reserves of our state, we're talking about foreign exchange reserves, until today we haven't received one serious, adequate answer. I don't think Mr. Jelasic has the right information himself. In fact, the state has reacted several times these months to preserve dinar stability, some say about 720m euros, some say more to preserve dinar stability. The DSS MPs asked them a few questions about it and asked them to answer that question, but as I said, we don't have that information until today. DSS MPs have suggested that a commission be formed to monitor the effects of the global financial crisis. And then, Mr. Ilic, you were making fun of us and telling us that it wasn't necessary, and at the time that we proposed this bill, when you said we were spreading propaganda in the people and there was no reason to pass this law. But it seems the DSS MPs were right. In the future, it would be good for you to listen to DSS MPs, because, as I said, they are going to meet the problem and detect these problems. In order for this law to be maintained, he must have some material logistics. In fact, these days we heard from the minister, namely the governor of the National Bank, Mr Jelasic, that the IMF will not give Serbia the 520 million reserves. The board of directors was scheduled to meet at "Nikoljdan" on December 19th, however, Mr Jelasic said, decided to hold the meeting in mid-January, and to extend the funds to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises why did the IMF not give these funds to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Just for one reason. Because the government of the Republic of Serbia has not adopted the budget today, which is why the budget in the procedure was submitted to this assembly on December 7th, that is why the IMF did not approve those funds to our government. We heard almost Prime Minister Cvetkovic that he formed a Commission to monitor the effects of the global financial crisis, but we also heard dissonant tones from Mr Jelasic, who says he has no idea about it and that he does not know why he was put as president of the commission, to follow the global financial crisis. These dissonant tones are creating a mix-up with our people right now. These dissonant tones speak of the government's lack of confidence in Serbian citizens. This global financial crisis will hit the poorest parts of Serbia, primarily the south of Serbia, where I come from. Most of all, they'll hit those places that are devastated. In Jablanic County we have two municipalities that are devastated, the municipality of Leskovac and the municipality of Medvedja. The unemployment rate is now 42%, and if the Agency for Private Entrepreneurs says around 120,000 workers will be fired this year, which would mean that it will hit Serbia's south most in the coming period and that many workers from southern Serbia will be out of work. Also, many citizens of southern Serbia have withdrawn their deposits from banks, for one space of reason, because they do not trust this state. Many private entrepreneurs are considering whether to continue their work or to shut down their businesses. In the end, I suggest, first of all, that you continue to listen to the proposals of the DSS MPs, that you accept all these things that the MPs of the opposition say to you. It would be nice for you to accept all these amendments, because these amendments would also improve these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10401	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Vlajko Senic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7(2), and I have suggested that Article 2 of this proposal be deleted. Article 2, says: "Deponent does not have the right to request the payment of the security amount if, during the winding-up procedure, a secured amount has been paid to the bank and if, after that payment, the bankruptcy procedure has been opened. ''In the light of the amendments, I have stated that it is unnecessary to legally standardise the exclusion from a certain right, if that right has already been achieved in another procedure. The exercise of a certain right automatically excludes the exercise of the same right on the basis of the same legal work. Therefore, if the deposit is paid the amount secured, it cannot initiate the procedure for exercising the right on the same legal basis. In the context of this amendment, the Government said: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed amendment of the Deposit Insurance Act is unequivocally determined that the depositor has the right to request the payment of the secured amount in the process of liquidating the bank. If a bankruptcy procedure is opened against that bank, the depositor shall not have the right to re-demand the secured amount in the bankruptcy proceedings. ''again misunderstanding by the government or one who writes answers on behalf of the government, but we'll start with the essentials of deposit insurance. The definition of the current government is to achieve maximum in terms of creating conditions for the protection of citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. Instead of starting from the real base, the real resources available to the state, which are elements, whether in the Deposit Insurance Fund or in the Republic's budget, or in other aspects provided for by the Deposit Insurance Fund Act, or the Deposit Insurance Agency, and within that Deposit Insurance Fund Act, the Government for purely psychological reasons accepted the variant to provide almost everything. So we had a situation that she had more solutions for countries in the environment of European deposit insurance models, but she got over it. Let's make sure we don't have it or not. I asked the question here on two occasions – from which funds in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks will the funds be paid? I have received answers, so I will try to comment on them, but before that we must point out to the public, the citizens of Serbia, the irresponsible policy of the current government, irresponsible in terms of governance, capital management, state-owned assets. In the first part, I said about how the state banks operate, where the majority capital of the state is. We have, we said, eight banks now in preparation for privatisation. It's just a wonder the government hasn't done it already. The other day, the governor of the National Bank said he was going to take the privatisation process, but in such a way that four banks form one bank, out of four bad banks we will form one bank, and from that mass and that capital, from those four banks, we will get far more than we will sell individual banks. Wrong. If the state defined itself for privatisation of the banking system, it had to end it. Let's go back to 2000. In the banking system, we had 105 banks, savings banks and savings-credit cooperatives. The new government that came after 2000 said we were going to reform the banking system. Reform involves shutting down, erasing the banking system as a whole. Free opening of the banking system to capital and funds from foreign investors, foreign banks and foreign financial institutions. Today we have this situation that in the banking system of Serbia we do not have any bank that we can say will be the backbone of the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. Is that the Commercial Bank? It's not. Why not? Because all the countries of the world have their own national bank, but a business bank, I don't mean this central bank, through which they do all the jobs and in the context of the whole business and national banks are created and reserves for the development of that bank remain for the state, remains for the citizens, remains for society. We've destroyed the banking system, we've shut down 70 banks and banking organizations, and here and now we have a system of bankruptcy and liquidation of 16-17 banks that haven't been brought to an end. In the practical application of bankruptcy and liquidation, we have the most stupidity that can be imagined and the greatest abuses. No one, I say responsibly, in this assembly or in the government knows what's going on in bankruptcy and liquidation. These are the largest possible malfeasances, from the fact that they are given, that they are given, that funds are transferred without any knowledge, the bankruptcy managers of the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation, sometimes, and today, the Deposit Insurance Agency itself, according to both intent or arrangement, or bribe and corruption, transfer funds. Furthermore, business premises at Belgrade's most exclusive locations and other cities are being re-allocated according to one's intentions. The credit lines that ran until 2002, and later, and the interest that is paid on these banks' accounts in bankruptcy and liquidation are spent on some thread, and we don't know who. It's billions and billions of dinars that are being crossed, no control. The law on the recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks ordered the Agency to submit reports to the National Bank, the government and the Serbian Parliament. I'm asking you, has anyone seen such a report here? Have the members of the Finance Committee seen such a report? No, they're not. We left it to the verse. What does the verse bring? bribery, crime, corruption, waste of funds from these banks that are in bankruptcy and liquidation without supervision and without control. Now, right now, we have what we need to worry about even more. So, what's gone, let's just say, it's all gone for nothing. These are the funds of Serbian citizens, but almost, they're gone. This government does nothing to correct, to remove, these illegal acts. We currently have nine banks with the majority capital of the state. What is the fate of these banks? Mostly losers. We have the information for 2007, the entire banking system has earned 29.8 billion dinars, which is about 375m euros, but at the same time a certain number of banks have achieved a loss of 6.3 billion dinars, or 75m euros, and we can say that the banking system has done well. But they're still troublesome state banks. Why? Because there's no control. Who was that supposed to control? That control was to be carried out by the Deposit Insurance Agency. Now I'm going to read you a provision that obliges the Agency to exercise control and manage banks, but it doesn't, or possibly does, informs the National Bank, but it has no further effects. Article 7 of the existing Deposit Insurance Agency Act says that: The Agency participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, by monitoring the operations of these banks and the work of their bodies and by performing other affairs on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law and other regulations. Now I'm going to read you the data on the losses made by several banks and what are the effects of these losses on the entire banking system. The post office, as a state-owned bank, lost 2 billion 800 million dinars in 2007. In the first six months of this year, the loss of 2 billion 780 million dinars will end at 4 billion by the end of the year. Who's gonna cover that loss? From what means will we cover the losses of these banks alone? What about the Credit Bank, the Bank of Business, the Bank of Serbia, etc.? And the entire banking system since the tenth month of this year, after the psychological pressure that has gone from the West to us, needs to worry about the current government and you have to worry. You have to form far more commissions to deal with individual segments, and within the banking system you have to have mobile teams to solve problems on a daily basis. Don't do anything. Look, about the state banks, you had both 2005 and 2006, and 2007, and 2008, and in 2009, we're not even going to mention it, because these big banks have to ask themselves how long it's gonna take. But now we're not worried about the boards and shareholders of these banks, especially foreign banks, but the balance sheet sum of these banks should concern us, especially the state banks, because you haven't done anything to eliminate all the problems we have in that sector. Let's see what means to aliminate and cover individual banks that go into bankruptcy and liquidation. On one of my questions that I have raised here at the assembly speaker, from which you plan to make a purchase of potential losses, etc., answers me in the following way, it is related to Article 9. The Deposit Insurance Agency Act, where it says that according to the Government Act, the Agency may take the following measures with the banks referred to in Article 7 of this Act: To cover potential losses, take over, buy and otherwise acquire a bad activity, manage a bad activity, sell that activity, so you answer me in the following way – the proposed amendments of the Deposit Insurance Act to the Deposit Insurance Act have been given the possibility to the Government, on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia, to intervene on the financial market in such a way, in order to respond urgently in cases where the bank in difficult conditions, which are the consequence of the global crisis, significantly distorts and threatens financial stability on the market. The funds for these purposes are intervention funds and are foreseen by the 2009 budget. I'm asking you, where can I see it? We've now received a budget proposal to see where these funds are and how you plan to execute the resolution of banks that have potential losses, have everything. What resources do we have in the budget and how do we intervene in these situations? The bank goes into bankruptcy and liquidation – how in bankruptcy and liquidation do you buy potential losses? (Chairman: Time) I'm finishing up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10403	Thank you. By amendment, go ahead. Mrs. Donka Banovic answered her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10404	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Milorad Buha has submitted an amendment to Article 7 and proposes that Article 2 be deleted in that article and that is an honorable attempt to correct the entire law, which he otherwise has, seems to me, 9 members, and there are 14 amendments. However, it is obvious that the government has no hearing of amendments coming from the opposition, so I suggest that Mr. Buha next time ask Vlajko Senic to sign the amendment, so he may be accepted. The DSS believes that the government of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise, has a very irresponsible relationship with the financial and economic crisis in Serbia. I remind you that the ministers in the Serbian government and that the governor of the NBS, Mr Jelasic, recently said that the banking system in Serbia is very stable and that the economic crisis will not be particularly felt in Serbia. In early October, the DSS Group proposed a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, because we are aware that there is a financial crisis in Serbia and we are aware that not only this measure needs to be taken, but a whole series of measures to mitigate the effects of the crisis. The DSS proposal envisions an increase in deposit insurance from the current 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros. However, when the bill appeared in the Assembly, a session of the Finance Committee was held and then the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Slobodan Ilic here, accused the opposition and DSS MPs of spreading panic and of the need to increase the amount to the deposit insurance. Just a month later, somewhere on November 14th, we began a debate in the principle of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, which was prepared by the Serbian government. In their proposal, it said, the amount for deposit insurance is increasing from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros, which is also true in most European countries, with, for example, Germany, which is a rich country, there is no limit to insurance. So this bill is proof that the DSS Parliamentary Group did not spread panic, nor did opposition MPs spread panic, but, above all, shows that we are seriously considering the problems that Serbia is in. What's good is that maybe this bill was encouraged by the Serbian government ministers and the finance minister present here to think about them, so we have this bill that, unfortunately, is not real. Compared to the DSS bill, it is absolutely unrealistic. Why is he unreal? Because there are no funds at all times, nor at the Deposit Insurance Agency, nor at the NBS, so that such a large deposit, i.e. saving citizens where you have 50,000 euros. So it was better to accept that the maximum level for insurance was 20,000 euros, so then you know that at every moment the state is really behind such a decision and that there are funds for it. When you figure out 50 grand and you don't have insurance at all times, then you practically don't have the confidence of the citizens and they don't have trust, so you'll probably continue to withdraw funds from the banks. Not even in the 2009 draft budget, which is in the assembly procedure, so we all had time to look at the draft budget, even there are no budgets. Not to mention, there is not a whole series of economic measures that will prevent the dismissal of workers from the company and that will alleviate the overall economic crisis. Another irresponsible move and the government's irresponsible decision is to apply the transitional trade agreement unilaterally. I don't think any of us have heard before about the fact that when the two sides sign a contract and commit to something, if one side says "I'm not behind that contract", that the other party is trying to apply the decisions of the contract. It would be just like if Mrs. Dragutinovic and I agreed to sell her a car, give her a car, and she doesn't pay me that car. So that would be my unilateral application of such a contract. The press says that the damage to the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget, due to the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement on Trade, will amount to 300m euros. So, in addition to the deficit foreseen in the budget, we'll have another big hole called 300m euros. However, the government has some solutions, and these solutions are not very popular and, let me say, it is not fair. So, the government predicts to increase excise duties on coffee, on beer, on fuel, so that virtually every Serbian citizen in his pocket will set out for the government's decision to unilaterally apply the Trade Agreement, because these 300m euros should somehow be compensated. It could also be read these days, while negotiations with the IMF on loan and on a new arrangement that some Serbian government ministers have proposed to raise VAT, i.e. to raise value added tax. Believe it or not, the IMF has rejected such an idea, so it turns out, people, that the IMF is more protective of Serbia's citizens than its own government. According to the latest surveys, the price of basic foods in the region has been carried out by the EU Statistics Agency, not even for the region, but for all 37 countries in Europe, food products have seen the largest growth in Serbia. Food products are up by 13.4%, which is one of the largest purchases in Europe this year. Is that a way to live better? Is this a way to fulfill the pre-election promise "to live better"? Well, a blocked SSP, a frozen SSP is not milked on bread. So that's not a way to live better. When agricultural products and their prices are observed, a 28.5% increase is recorded. Prices of milk and milk products have increased by 18.2%, and record prices have been placed on the market by oil, where a liter of oil is more expensive by 6.5%, i.e. domestic rabbit is more expensive than oil and in Germany, in the Netherlands. Compared to the average of our salaries, Serbia, with food, clothing and shoes, is a startling fact that, when it comes to receiving, clothes in Serbia are more expensive than in France. Another proof that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with all ministers, is very irresponsible, is the fact that we don't have all the laws that belong to the so-called so-called "day". European package of laws. In fact, members of the European Integration Committee regularly receive a report from Minister Djelic, who is in charge of these affairs, so that the latest report writes, and we in the Assembly know that only 13 laws are in the assembly procedure, from the planned 51-law package. Of course, the Assembly is accused of obstructing our path to Europe, of not working quickly and efficiently enough and of waiting for European laws. So, I remind the citizens and all of us that there are only 13 laws currently in the procedure, and that nine laws were passed a month ago. When the other laws come to order, God knows, because the report is very clear that the bill is at different stages. So you have a whole set of very important laws that haven't even started yet. So there's neither a predicate nor a draft. I pray on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, and I suppose on behalf of the opposition MPs, that you stop accusing this home, that this home is obstructing our journey to Europe or our path to a better standard, because it is absolutely not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10405	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in line with the interests of the citizens of Serbia represented here by the SRS, I have one recommendation for Mrs. Minister and for you, Mr. Ilic, given that this law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia was to be adopted by 15 December, and since we did not, today, when the work day is over, you are to immediately prepare the budget rebalance for 2009. It is our obligation to warn you in time, that after us individual MPs, or the heads of Parliament, and also representatives of the Government, you would not call on our accession to the European Union to depend on the MPs. Dear citizens of Serbia, neither of these MPs who support the government depends on how you live, and much less depends on the MPs of the SRS and other opposition MPs, but we, in line with our capabilities and in line with the arguments we have been trying to influence the government that what is minimally acceptable to them, try to make Serbia feel better. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act and asking the question – was Article 8 necessary at all, if the arguments made by MP Zoran Krasic concerning Article 4. The proposal or the amendment that I have submitted should be accepted. If the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic is not accepted, then it is logical to accept the amendment I propose, and I will make arguments that must be accepted, too. There are two reasons why the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing this law. The first is, the number has spread, if I may say so, the persons to whom this law applies, and the second is the increase in the amount to be secured. When it comes to the expansion of the number of persons, my colleagues from the SRS talked about it, if it applies to natural and legal persons, that, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, it should be applied both to small, medium and large enterprises. Personally, I think this seems more for psychological reasons than real needs. The DSS MPs submitted their proposal before this proposal to the Government to amend and supplement the Deposit Insurance Act. They suggested that the security amount be 20,000 euros, if the government's response to my asked parliamentary question, how much savings we have in the business banks, more than 3,000 euros, then I can't argue that this proposal from the DSS was something particularly necessary, but we certainly don't mind increasing that amount to 20, or 50,000. We do not dispute that amount, but, however, other facts mentioned in this law, we would certainly have to dispute. There are three types of premiums that business banks have to pay on secured deposits. The first is the initial one and each business bank is obliged to pay that amount within 45 days of obtaining a solution from the National Bank of Serbia. Then there are these three-month or so on. regular premiums that were common so far, and you signed last year's decision that it could be up to 0.1%. There are extraordinary premiums, as a third type of premium, which business banks have to pay on secured deposits. And there is one limit, if 5% of the amount is achieved, then it can be suspended and the obligation of a business bank to pay that amount to premiums can be stopped. Then you told Article 8 – 'The banks are obliged to pay a three-month deposit insurance premium for the first quarter of 2009 based on data on total and secured deposits within the meaning of the Law, according to data from the fourth quarter of 2008. '' Otherwise, it is a practice for the Agency to prescribe until 30 September of the current year what is the obligation, i.e. premiums on secured deposits. Since the basis changes, from three to 50,000 euros, it certainly needs to be prescribed a second amount. I've intervened with the amendment, I suggest that in Article 8. The bill amends the text, which says – ''The banks are obliged to pay a three-month deposit insurance premium for the first quarter of implementation on the basis of data on total and secured deposits within the meaning of the Law, according to data from the fourth quarter of the previous year. ''You are bound here, the fourth quarter of 2008, and first in 2009. It is an interesting explanation given by the Government when considering my amendment and why the amendment is not accepted. I must ask you most warmly, you will have many amendments and on the draft budget law for 2009, either make it possible or prepare more seriously those who read the amendments and who propose. It's safe that you don't, because if you do, I think a large number of amendments should be accepted. What did you say in your explanation why the amendment was not accepted? "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 8 is independent." (I call on all independent unions to change and put in a big "T," but this may be a printing mistake and I wouldn't hold on to it. ) Therefore, 'Article 8 is an independent member and refers to the bill, and the provision of this member establishes the obligation of the bank to pay the first premium on a changed basis,' and the amended basis will be when this law comes into force, instead of three, 50,000 euros, ''pays at the time when it pays the next regular premium under the Deposit Insurance Act – the first quarter of 2009. ''You could convince me that this law has a limited fact, a limited application, although fellow Ristic, you would agree, all laws except perhaps a small number, which would be what is 0.1% of the laws that have a limited time fact, so you could convince me that it applies only to this period of the beginning of the first quarter of 2009, because the basis changes. I have read the full bill and certainly it is unacceptable for me, because in Article 4, I am not now in a qualitative sense to explain the shortcomings of that member, because it was done in a good way by my colleague Krasic, but here the government of the Republic of Serbia is authorised to increase the amount provided in the previously obtained opinion of the National Bank of Serbia, which is set out in Article 2 of this Law, to 50,000. And the government can now increase that to another amount and the government will do it next year in this period, then we will have to pass one law, the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, where we will only change that amount, of course, I expect that they will not be in power during that period. And so, with individual members, you try to fool the citizens of Serbia about how worried you are and how your attempt is, but just try to do something for them very big, and it's basically gone. Someone here said that in this situation, in the economic crisis, the number of ministries should be reduced. Well, it wasn't this government that first determined the number of ministries, it was by moving on to a coalition deal, and then talking and trying to solve the problem. And this is how hard this government is working, and imagine that now one or two ministries are being abolished or that jurisdiction is being transferred, and only then would there be major problems, and that is unreal to expect. We want to change this government as soon as possible and our political goal and interest is to change the regime of Boris Tadic. Lately, you are trying, again, to explain to the citizens, to say that you are very concerned about them, because about a million citizens will not be able to travel because the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents has not yet been adopted in the National Assembly, and to remind citizens of Serbia, it has only one member, in fact, has two, the other only says when the law enters into force. I also have to tell you that by traveling from Love to Belgrade very often I drive my fellow citizens to Loznica, Capca or Belgrade and they don't need a passport at all, they don't need a visa, of course, there will probably be some territories, too, where no passport or visa will be needed, those for whom the SRS stands. What are they traveling with me for? Because they're trying to save every penny. Now, that's the essence, and a million citizens ready to travel at this moment, I'm not going to say to the white world but to some territories outside the Republic of Serbia, waiting for the travel documents that will be passed before it expires, so you can't get rid of yourself in such cheap tricks that you're trying to introduce to the citizens of Serbia. There is another problem that no one has commented on, and not even Vlajko Senic, and he should have, because if he had proposed an amendment, he would have been accepted. You predicted that the state of Serbia guaranteed savings roles in the middle of the official course on the day of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia's release, and you saw the situation we had as a result of your so-called the swimming course, that the course grew daily, and it was very significant, and it was suggested that the ability to collect these savings stakes be within 30 to 90 days. I think it's incorrect to those savings that you're taking great care of right now. No one intervened with the amendment. I don't know how to stop it. That's certainly not good. And the withdrawal of savings, and it has been withdrawn, although 35 banks in Serbia provide savings because it is a commitment under positive regulations, but it is not more than a billion foreign exchange savings withdrawn for reasons of uncertainty, it may be a more significant amount and it is because of uncertainty, however, a large number of savings have withdrawn their savings for the reason that they were their last free assets, because, due to your long-standing rule, which has brought nothing good, people had to take those funds to survive from day to day. In the end, if you tried to do one survey and conducted it among Serbian citizens to ask them what assessment they were assessing this law with, you would see that it was almost insignificant to them, as in that amount of deposit security up to 3,000 euros, the largest number of depositors was protected. They have much bigger problems with a low employment rate, with small and irregular salaries and privatisation, I will not tell the looting but one illegal privatisation and one privatisation that has caused, indeed, many and great problems for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10407	Thank you. On the basis of article 85, I'm setting up a labor break by 15.00 hours. First for the word Mr Milos Radulovic, below, according to the amendment. [[After break – 15.10]] We'll continue the afternoon session. The word is Mr Milos Radulović, following an amendment to Article 8. Here you go, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10409	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we now have Mr. Sreta Peric's amendment, which consists of changing and saying, "The banks are obliged to pay a three-month deposit guarantee premium for the first quarter of the year based on data on total and secured deposits within the meaning of the Law, according to data from the fourth quarter of the previous year." The amendment essentially gives an important change to the draft deposit insurance law because Article 8 states: "The banks are obliged to pay the three-month deposit guarantee premium for the first quarter of 2009 to be executed on the basis of data on total and secured deposits within the meaning of the Law, according to data from the fourth quarter of 2008. I think Mr. Sreta Perić's amendment is a fully explained amendment, and I believe that the government should accept this amendment, above all, because it essentially gives one right not to change in 2009, precisely because of the major financial crisis that has affected the world's global economy, and is slowly taking over the Republic of Serbia. It is in its reasoning that the banks are obliged to pay a three-month deposit guarantee premium for the first quarter of 2009 based on data on total and secured deposits within the meaning of the Law, according to data from the fourth quarter of 2008. Personally, I don't think there will be any changes to the better next year that we would simply have to, as you have explained here, unless this amendment of Mr. Sreti Peric is adopted, that we have some changes, because this amendment indicates that the next year will essentially be such that it does not give a chance at all to increase the secured deposits on which the guarantee is given. For this, it gives us exactly the consequences and duration of the financial crisis. According to estimates of the world's most important economists, who point to this global economic crisis, they do not hold it for a year, but are assuming that this economic crisis can have one consequence over a longer period of time. It is precisely for the reasons of rationalisation and more efficient work of Parliament that it is not good that we are now passing a law that will apply only to 2008 or 2009, and that next year we are passing a law, where this provision in Article 8 would be amended, because it is clear that it applies only to 2008. As I came out to talk about this amendment, I would like the citizens of Serbia, as well as the MPs, to remind me that the DSS has pointed to a threat that threatens the financial crisis and which is slowly beginning to affect certain layers in our country of Serbia. The DSS came out with a proposal to increase the secured deposit to 20,000 euros. However, I am surprised that Mr Ilic has found it in general that he has the courage to come, to attend, and to help you defend this amendment, because on the Finance Committee he attacked the DSS initiative and the proposal to amend the Deposit Insurance Act by saying that the DSS spreads panic among citizens this proposal and that this bill is defetistic. Meanwhile, we have come to a new bill that increases the secured deposit to 50,000 euros. So it's clear to everyone that, essentially, this crisis is at great risk, not only for our citizens, our natural persons, but also for private entrepreneurs, owners of small, medium and large enterprises, which shows that big systems are practically shooting in the world, and that this is happening in a way that we have, for starters, that in a large number of companies, workers are being fired or sent on a forced holiday. I think that in this way time has been lost, a late reaction, and that as a consequence of the untimely response to the situation facing Serbia and Serbian citizens and all entrepreneurs, we have in the first week, when the people realized that we have one crisis that affects our country, withdrawn from banks between 600,000 and 700 thousand euros as savings, so that in the week of savings (and we know what effect last year was like when the number of savings increased and the total stakes increased, the savings stake of Serbian citizens) this time, although a series was announced, so to say,'stimulative measures', another 300m euros were withdrawn, so that we have about a minimum that a billion euros were withdrawn from the banks by citizens. What I once said in the presentation here, as a consequence of that, we have that citizens have defined themselves, first of all, to keep money in safes, that safes practically, of certain banks, have become the most wanted goods. I've been here several times and the consequences of the increase in the reference interest because the moment we first opened the reference interest story, the interest rate was around 15.75%, and now the interest rate is 17.75%. This has increased by about 2% in less than a month, the amount of these interest, which results in an increase in the price of credit money, so to speak, because now the economic operators, if they want to borrow at all, are taking over, or are in debt on interest of 25 to 30%, and even goes over 30%. It's one of the first consequences of the recession to affect our society. It simply needs to be explained to citizens who are able, an economic operator, to be in charge of interest from 25 to 30%, without having to reflect on the business of the company in terms of or to reduce the number of employees, or otherwise to install it in the price. As a consequence of such a single policy, we also have an increase in prices and while firing a number of workers. I'd like to give an example to a couple of companies called the "Remont Institute" from Chuck, Vital, Rubin. We at this time, during this period, have had about 5,000 people who have lost their jobs, and some projections for next year, although the president of the state and the president of the DS at the session of the main committee have been soundly told – we will defend jobs, the question is how they will be able to defend jobs, or it is one demagogue message to citizens without any clear direction and global strategy to do so. In the meantime, we met and heard very perverse statements from individual ministers from the government, one of the ministers said Serbia should be seen as a desert island, said Mr Djelic, that we would be bypassed by a global crisis, that investors would rush into our country. However, we know how they rushed and how many new ones we have, so to speak, the Greenfield investment. Mr. Milosavljevic said in an interview, quite the opposite, that we are not a desert island and that we are affected by the crisis. So, first of all, it is necessary for you to agree your views in the government itself. The government is obviously without the helm and it reminds me a lot of the Titanic. I'm afraid for all those on that ship, the leadership of such a government can have inconceivable consequences. There were some more, let's say, empty, demagogue stories that neither MPs nor citizens stood for, because we're all for a better life. Mr Milosavljevic said the citizens would not be barefoot and barefoot. The Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, said they would not be hungry. Simply, I think that any government that pursues and pursues certain European integrations and certain values, and you are full of the mouth of Europe and European standards, are not currently standards in Europe – so neither naked nor barefoot nor hungry. The government, essentially, doesn't know what they want. We have had and are facing these and previous days with one action, a campaign led by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, which was directed towards the defence course. On several occasions, the National Bank intervened with certain funds, ranging from 10m to 50m euros in one day to defend the course. But we know that in early September, the course was about 75 dinars, and now it's 86 and it has reached 90 dinars. It's just that the question is, what's behind it, and who essentially bought those foreign exchanges that were put on the market to defend the course? (President: Time.) Just a few more words. It's just that I don't think that these funds were bought by ordinary citizens, they were bought by tycoons, by members of the import lobby. In this way, they are allowed to take, a circus, about a billion euros, so to speak, out of privatisation, from the citizens, that the citizens are poor and that we don't have now... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10410	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10411	Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, even though I think he's been injured by Article 104 because it's been the eighth day, and I haven't received an answer from the Prime Minister. You know I said I'd ask that question every day, so I didn't, I just asked twice in the last week and I didn't get an answer. Whether I ask questions the government doesn't know the answer or doesn't want to give them, but in any case, I now have a new question for the Prime Minister, whether the Secretary-General will respond or some competent ministry, it doesn't matter. In fact, these days she's on commercials, if you've seen, in electronic media, on television, I'm seeing her on RTS, Public Service, where the campaign started, obviously Vladina, "let's buy some homework," like the Croats did a few years ago. It is interesting that the advertisement ends with buying domestic goods defending jobs, just as the President of the Republic finished his speech on his last DS main board, when he said his job is now to defend jobs, not to provide new jobs. My question is now, I guess it's the Ministry of Trade and Services, and unfortunately not tourism, and that's what this ministry should look like -- which marketing agency was hired to do that video, that commercial? How much money from the budget for that? Because when we know what agency did it, then we'll know if it was the same agency that did the campaign for the President of the Republic, and yet it's about the same subject. That's the first question. The second question, I repeat for the third time, and I hope that this time the Prime Minister will answer me, in line with the measures that the government has prepared for 2009 on stabilisation, about how we will resist the global economic crisis, which has obviously arrived in Serbia, regardless of what the ministers have announced will bypass it – how many new jobs (we are not talking about what exists and what is probably logical that any government must defend itself, rather than if we want prosperity) from the promised 200 000 in 2009 because of a more favourable economic climate in Serbia will be provided? I hope this time, after the third attempt, the Prime Minister will answer my question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10412	I ask the service to forward these questions to the government. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10413	I'm reporting for an officer. In 225 and 226, the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, were broken on the night between Saturday and Sunday by glass at the windows of the SRS Municipal Committee, Vozdovac, on the street of Rada Končar 1a, on Leka's hill. A brick was found in the rooms that made it. I don't know why that happened. You know what happened in the previous period in the municipality of Voždovac, I've repeatedly brought out the public, the purchase of councilmen, the problem with the quorum and everything else. I'm going to have to ask the questions again, first of all, to the M.O.P., have they taken any action? I noted that there was a threat and a threat to the lives of individual committees, who did not want to participate in the work of SO, i.e. to give quorum to the majority, which at that time did not need quorum to work. In the rooms of high-ranking officials, SO Leader was invited individual committees who had moved to the SNS. First of all, Zdravko Pršić of Ripnja, who attended the meeting for more than an hour, was offered financial assistance. They couldn't agree on a number. They haven't been able to figure out how much the cheek costs and how much it costs to give the quorum. They also offered Milan Todorovic, the SRS board, that in return they would do whatever was necessary in his place, Rakovica-selo. Mladen Vodalov, I already mentioned him, also moved to SNS. He was surrounded by forwards, committees and employees from the DS who also separated him from the SRS and forced him to raise his hand when needed, and all for the sake of getting jobs and other services from the Voždovac municipality. An employee in the municipality of Voždovac, Ljubvoje Popovic, who works as an inspector, threatened the committee of Ljiljana Tomic. He sent her a threatening message from his official phone, and I'll say his number, 064-8787-859, because she didn't agree to give them a quorum, the following content -- I'll make you hell out of life. In Pop's signature. These are all the things that marked the previous period in the municipality of Vozdovac. This is what will mark the government there, which is made up of DS, SPS and LDP. They're putting pressure on the councilmen all the time. They don't often have quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10414	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10415	I'm done. I've told you before they've done a lot of damage around the Blue Bridge. The construction mafia is highly developed in the Vozdovac municipality. I've put it out in public more than once. I ask the Ministry of the Interior – have they done anything about this case and the breaking of glass in the premises of the Voždovac Municipal Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10416	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since MP Igor Becic has written down the amendment to Article 9 I find that we have completed a search of the bill in particular. Before I ask Mrs Dragutinovic, the finance minister, if she wants a word, Aleksandar Martinovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic. Please, which member you're calling for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10417	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, I will grant your wish at the beginning of my presentation. Article 23 and Article 36 have been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have now, directly before the start of the afternoon work of the National Assembly, received a notice that reads like this, otherwise visually to see what it looks like, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President – 'I hereby inform you that I am withdrawing the amendment that I have submitted to Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, MP Igor Becic. That's all. I draw your attention, Mr. Novakovic, that the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia act through their parliamentary groups. MP groups are a business category. Article 23 says, "In the National Assembly, MP groups are educated, according to the rule no later than seven days after the election day of the National Assembly President. The parliamentary group consists of the MPs of one political party, another political organisation or group of citizens who have at least five MPs. '"There are more questions here. First of all, what parliamentary group does MP Igor Becic belong to? This short memo shows absolutely no sign of which MP group he belongs. Of course, it is possible for MPs to act independently in the National Assembly. So, that there are no members of any political or parliamentary groups, but please, Mr. Novakovic, to inform us, you as chairman, since the president of the National Assembly is not here, which parliamentary group, I apologize to Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you came anyway, belongs to Igor Becic? If it belongs to a parliamentary group, which is not mentioned in this submission, i.e. in the notice of withdrawal of amendments, then for procedural reasons, this notice should not be accepted for formal reasons and you should allow the discussion of the amendment. Otherwise, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we are again witnessing a completely abnormal political situation. Unnormal in all democratic countries, unfortunately, normal in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to propose an amendment as a member of one parliamentary group, and then withdraw that same amendment or as a member of another parliamentary group, or, I no longer know in what capacity, since this short letter absolutely does not show which MP this appointed MP belongs to, if he is still a national MP. There is a purely formal question here, I will not talk about moral issues, about the oaths of Vojislav Seselj to eternal loyalty, the SRS, etc., and all this is being trampled. It's no longer a dispute. For these people, morality no longer exists. I would draw your attention, at the time this amendment was submitted, he was submitted on behalf of the SRS Group... (President: Time)... Here, I'll be done in 10 seconds. So pay attention to the amendment that Igor Becic submitted. It clearly says -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS Parliamentary Group. The SRS did not withdraw this amendment. I ask you to let us know, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, which parliamentary group belongs to Igor Becic, does it even belong to an MP group, is it a national MP? Otherwise, if we don't get those notices, you are required to allow the debate on the amendment of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10418	The MP submits an amendment, if he does so on behalf of the parliamentary group, he has the right to withdraw the amendment. The fact that Mr Becic is no longer in the SRS Parliamentary Group is known to both the public and you, Mr Martinovic. The facts are really like that. Please don't have a dialogue, the answer is well known both by you and I. Here you go. You want to go back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10419	You say, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that we know the facts, unfortunately they are not. Just to draw your attention that an SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj election list participated in the 11 May elections. You, if you are truly attached to the principles of democracy and the rule of law, should not have tolerated a single day in the National Assembly the existence of a parliamentary group, a political party that did not participate in the elections at all. There are no such examples in any democratic country. You say -- it is common knowledge of the fact that Igor Becic belongs to the parliamentary group, and as far as I know, all Serbian citizens have been able to spot Igor Becic as members of the SRS by following the meetings of the National Assembly. If you think that it belongs to another parliamentary group, it would be nice to inform us about it in writing, because I really didn't get any notice that Igor Becic changed the parliamentary group, and if he did, to explain to us which member of the Rules of Procedure he had joined to another parliamentary group, that's one thing. Secondly, from this letter submitted by Igor Becic, I absolutely don't see which MP group he belongs to. If it is not an independent MP in the Serbian Parliament and if it belongs to a certain parliamentary group, I do not know which one, you should inform me about it, and since this submission does not indicate which parliamentary group is concerned and given the fact that the amendment has been submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I draw your attention, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that for formal reasons this notice should not be accepted and that you should allow the debate on the amendment submitted by the SRS. The SRS has not withdrawn any amendment to Article 9 and I ask you to allow this amendment to be discussed, because my colleague, MP Dragan Stevanović, has prepared to discuss this amendment with a very studio and very reasoned discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10420	Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby conclude the examination of the bill in particular. The National Assembly in Voting Day will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general, and I will, during the day in writing, once again after consulting with the secretary to give you an answer to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10421	It seems to me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in all respects, that you have not understood the essence of my reporting to the Rules of Procedure. We are not so interested in Igor Becic's political fate, he has defined his political destiny in his own procedure, it is primarily a matter of morality, a matter of honor, a question of words, etc. This is about the fate of the amendment, do we still have an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act or not, and whether the amendment may be withdrawn in this way. I'm telling you for formal reasons, about these moral reasons, really, I won't discuss them anymore, they're quite clear, but for formal reasons you can't see on behalf of which parliamentary groups Igor Becic withdrew this amendment. Just to remind you, he filed it on behalf of the SRS Group. You say, in the course of the day, you will inform me which group it belongs to, but we now need to determine the fate of this amendment, not in half an hour, an hour, or at 19 hours, but now before the debate on amendments is concluded. The SRS believes that the amendment in the legal sense still exists, that it is in Parliament's procedure and that the SRS parliamentary group should absolutely be allowed to discuss this amendment. So we're looking for an answer right now. What parliamentary group does Igor Becic belong to, when he changed the parliamentary group, on what basis and can there be any debate on a submission on which you absolutely have no notice when it is written, which date, or on behalf of which group of MPs is drawn up? These are very important questions. So we are not interested in Igor Bečić, like Igor Becic, we are interested in the fate of the amendments of the SRS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10422	We're continuing our work. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Nikolic, Mr Jorvanka Tabaković, Momir Markovic and Milorad Buha, as well as amendments to the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to the amendment debate, let me let you know that we'll be working after 18 hours today, according to the agenda at that point on the agenda. On behalf of the Law, the amendment was submitted by the Financial Committee. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be empty, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Zoran Nikolic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10423	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is not a burning reminder of the public, once again, that we have discussed this set of laws, including this law, spoke on November 14th, and today, if I am not mistaken, December 15th. So, one month after the principle debate is held today, we are discussing amendments to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. We listened carefully then to the Minister's statement and she said that this set of economic laws is about amendments and additions to three laws, namely, an objective, objective and strong response by the responsible state to the ongoing financial crisis. Is that exactly what happens when we talk about all these laws? There's been a lot of talk here about amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act. I would like to remind the public once again that the DSS came up with a bill on October 8th to increase the secured deposit from 3,000 to 20,000 and that it was then said by State Secretary Slobodan Ilic, and it is very important for this story because it also directly concerns the Deposit Insurance Agency, that these measures are absolutely unnecessary. A month later, we faced a proposal from the government, which is a sum of 20,000 euros, which we proposed as a reper sum, increased to 50,000 euros, and two months later, we are still discussing these laws. What is the point and what I want to say is that there was a constructive approach and by the government then she would have to know that there are opposition parties in Parliament, that they too have the right to draft laws, that although opposition parties are responsible to the citizens, and that we proposed this bill at best in time. Now it's quite evident, it turns out that the government was supposed to accept the proposal at the time. The law would probably have already been passed a month and a half ago and today we would have discussed, for example, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is also the most important document coming into this assembly. We then received an answer from the secretary of state that these measures are absolutely not important and that the financial and banking market is absolutely stable in Serbia. Why is this response of Mr. Slobodan Ilic's State Secretary important when we talk about the law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act? It's simple, because there's a board of directors of this agency, whose lead you are, if I'm not mistaken, is exactly you. Be careful, when we give such a discretionary right to a Deposit Insurance Agency to buy the actions of certain banks that threaten the financial and banking system, you will decide and be the most responsible person, and you are the chairman of the Management Board and you are the Prime Minister who will have the majority in this Management Board. Just until two months ago, you weren't aware of the fact that the crisis was knocking on our door. That's when our financial and banking system was seriously affected. But, well, the government has decided to be you right now. I'm just afraid that there will be no misjudgement of this board of directors, because only then will there be one big problem – what if you misjudge and buy out the actions of certain banks, which, for example, only in the short term could you solve a particular problem, or a particular problem, and that, for example, because of a new wave of crisis, this bank from which you would buy out actions as a state, comes into some additional problems. Then the question is, who will be responsible? When discussed in the principle debate on these laws, it was striking that the minister did not mention in any word the law amending the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. I read the stenogram carefully, and you absolutely didn't mention it. I'm inclined to believe that you're behind this proposal and you're not standing. I can't believe you're behind the draft law that gives discretion to this agency, which gives the right and opportunity to buy actions from certain banks, of course, on a proposal from the Government, with the consent of the NBS, and that it seems so untransparent. The assembly will absolutely have no control. We will later be informed, possibly, of the actions that the bank bought, and then we will see positive or, God forbid, the adverse effects of such transactions. So, I'm convinced that you deliberately kept it quiet, because you're aware that this way of functioning of the Deposit Insurance Agency is not a transparent way. Here you have also called on EU criteria. Is this how it is done in other EU countries? Is this how it's done in the U.S.? Let it be recorded that State Secretary Slobodan Ilic nods his head and says yes. So, without a decision by the United States legislative authorities, is 700 billion banks divided, you don't know which, what amount of money and what criteria? Let's say, was a certain bank about a month and a half ago, two days ago, based on the withdrawal of deposits from a state body, was its business compromised, or was it compromised? I don't want to say which bank it's about, but I'm sure you can guess. A significant state authority in this country has withdrawn its deposit from the bank and the bank has gone into grave trouble. Another domestic bank has shares in that bank. The very fact that this bank is at risk is also the other bank that had shares in the bank is also at risk. Whose stock are you going to buy then? What are the criteria by which you, as Government, or as State, will intervene in that case? We know absolutely nothing about it, nor is it the subject of this law. It leaves the discretionary right for you to decide. When someone is left with discretion, without control, then the possibility of abuse of that discretionary right opens up. Which is why we would allow you to do so, and which is why this confirmation that you empower yourself to, without informing the Assembly and without the participation of the Assembly, or in one non-transparent way, carry out those transactions, remain one big question mark. So we don't know on the basis of which criteria you'll intervene in the banking sector, when, eventually, banks come into this problem, or a certain bank comes into this problem to endanger financial stability. The particular question for you is where are these funds, where are these funds deposited, are those funds in this budget rebalancing we discussed about about a month ago? Was there an item related to this purpose and this purpose? Are these funds in the draft budget you proposed for 2009? I'd like to know exactly where those funds are. I was looking at the budget, I couldn't find the item where the funds were. If they're in the budget and you're nodding positive heads and you're saying it exists in the budget, then we'd do well to see what amount these funds are in, see what money the state has. So my proposal and my amendment are to delete, in this amendment and the addition of the law, Article 1, for the simple reason that it is not logical, if you want, neither European, because it is not transparent, that we give the Deposit Insurance Agency the additional discretionary right to intervene in the banking sector on the basis of undefined criteria, to buy out on behalf of the State a number of actions, in the way that it determines that it is convenient and thus transfer all responsibility to the Deposit Insurance Agency, and to deprive the Assembly of those responsibilities. If you wanted the public to work and if you wanted to share responsibility with the Assembly, then you should have proposed a law that could have been adopted by an emergency procedure, which, if there was a need to buy out the actions of a particular bank, come before this Parliament and make a decision to declare this Parliament within 2400 hours. So, first of all, we could react quickly, but you would also share responsibility with this Parliament, or, to put it that way, you would be covered by Parliament's decision. Although it is possible that Parliament would not like the possible interventions that you will certainly take in the next period, but at least it would produce a healthy and normal debate in Parliament, so if nothing else, at least we would find out on the basis of which criteria you decide to buy out the actions of a particular bank and others do not. Thus, without any criteria, this law absolutely does not make sense, for the simple reason that this Parliament deprives any responsibility, or any possibility to follow what will happen in this area in the next period. Believe me, in advance, I announce that a big space is really opening up here, that in the next period we will face this problem – and on the basis of which the criteria of the Deposit Insurance Agency intervened and that this will be the subject of the dispute between both economic experts and political parties in the coming period. In order to avoid this, to establish rules of the game, to ensure that this process is transparent, to share responsibility, I propose that Article 1 of the amendment and addition of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act be deleted and I appeal to the assembly majority to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10424	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Lapcevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10425	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and I ask the Prime Minister to answer the following question: "Are negotiations under the Government's amending the Pensions Act being conducted? ''The other day,' said DS representative Mr. Stanimirovic, that there were talks on whether the Pensions Act would be amended and so that the lowest pensions would increase more than 10% without the most pensions increasing. This, according to him, was opposed to the top of the United Pensioners' Party, because it does not suit them that their pensions of 70,80 may not increase even 100,000 dinars and increase the lowest pensions by a higher percentage. If that's true, it is, indeed, more than shameful. The top of the United Pensioners Party has promised a better standard for all pensioners, especially those who have the lowest pensions. Since there will be no changes to the law, or the pensions will be increased linearly, that means that those who receive 7 thousand will have an increased pension of 7 hundred dinars and there will be no increase next year, and the euro has gone to 88 dinars. Today at Blica, on two sides, a list of increases in the prices of basic products for life has been published. The consumer basket has gone to heaven. So all that's said is thrown into the water, just because the top of the United Pensioners' Party is too boastful and wants their high pensions to continue to grow anyway, and those who have the lowest pensions can't survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10426	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10427	I reported on the amendment to explain why it is necessary for this amendment to be accepted, to be more precise, why nothing should be touched in the existing Deposit Insurance Agency Act. Article 1 of this Bill makes it practical for the government to go into an operation called doing business for the Republic of Serbia in some co-production with the National Bank, which is 'purchases on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. '"I must begin by saying that this is the proposed amendment to this law on the Deposit Insurance Agency simply reflects the spirit and subject matter of the Deposit Insurance Agency. I need to draw your attention to that in Article 3. The bill, and that's what I told you in the principle debate, that the Agency is carrying out the tasks of mandatory security of the deposit of natural persons. I don't think you've changed it in the meantime or it is this subsequent amendment of yours, but if you haven't changed it, then it's in contradiction with that previous law we talked about, where you put in small and medium-sized legal persons. If what you are proposing, DS vote, I must tell you, in addition to Article 3 of Article 1 of the existing Law, that there is a whole chapter under regular number 3 – Doing business for the Republic of Serbia and that everything you change in Article 9 refers practically to what is prescribed in Article 7. In the first position of Article 9, an invitation to Article 7 of that Act shall be made. Article 7. The law says that – The Agency participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, by monitoring the business of these banks and the work of their bodies, and by performing other tasks on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Law and other regulations. So, if there is talk of some powers regarding bank management, the Agency can only exercise this right in those banks where the state capital, or the capital of the Republic of Serbia, is present. Everything that stands in Article 9 applies to that and when you change Article 9 and you spread that authority and buy the shares of all other banks, then you step out of the box of the case law. You do not have that authority, nor could the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal, a request or an opinion from the NBS change the ownership structure of other banks. There's the beginning and end of something called constitutionality and legality. I don't want to go any further, because I can get a warning. As soon as I say - the Constitution, these "kick" reminders to me, because it's forbidden to quote the Constitution here. Now, what you're asking for to change could be considered in another context. The fact is that in terms of the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia in financial operations and in terms of certain business on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia or of any modality of that participation to take into account, the NBS may, however, be involved by the Deposit Insurance Agency. But all the competences of the Deposit Insurance Agency are practically regulated by Article 5(2). I have no intention of reading it, since it's long. So, in addition to the insurance of the deposits of the natural persons, there are also the business of the bankruptcy manager over the banks and not to order any further. If the Republic of Serbia needs to participate in the change in the equity of a bank where it does not have its own founding role or has no action later, it can enter the business through the stock market and otherwise but not through the Deposit Insurance Agency. The question arises whether there can be an authority through the Deposit Insurance Agency to participate, let's say, in the management rights of this one state bank, the Commercial Bank, I believe that there are more places to enter the business directly with the Ministry of Finance. He who wrote to you both this law and these changes and additions does not know how to distinguish what executives are, what are legislative and what are other jobs. That's why he's making this kind of papasy. However, I must draw your attention to a kind of inconsistencies, and it is both political and economic. Let me remind you,'she saw the frog where the horses got wet, so she raised her leg and her. ''Saw these politicians of the euro, that America with 700 billion participates in a dubio for the banking system, which is mostly in private property or corporate property, doesn't matter, so they say, when Americans can, we can! Well, you can't, gentlemen. Why can't you? Now I'm going to read you why you can't. You taught us from the day Mladjan Dinkic and his sock entered the National Bank of Serbia, the first time he missed the building. Don't laugh, I have a witness and people who were exposed to the gun and people who were in security at a bank where he was wrong and I have Dusan Mihajlovic's testimony, where the man said, we were just making arrangements with Labus to calm the political tensions, and that lunatic, they say, ran into the bank, but our luck, so he missed the building. You can frown all you want, but it's written in the papers, it's written in the court files. Then we learned a great lesson in Serbia, that the state should not be a shareholder and owner of capital in banks! And that's when the destruction of state and social capital started in banks! The exception only happened at the National Savings Bank, but the exception only happened to how many cameras to take pictures of you, Đuricic, Labus, Dinkic and Zoran Djindjic, opening savings books at the National Savings Bank and becoming a state bank. You didn't lie to the devil, and then you had your first fight with G17 plus, that's the second time. Now this is the sixth time you've had a fight. It was one etalon, not an ethelon sock on the head, so take the bank, no, but the etalon - the state must not be a shareholder in the bank, because the state is a bad businessman. It's this lesson from neoliberalism, which says, let's leave it to all private initiative and all private initiative with its ability can finely edit it, and it'll arrange it so there won't be a pension, there won't be a warm meal for the military. Who knows what's not gonna happen. Why? Costs should be reduced and anything that is cost-efficiently resolved. How? To kill that it doesn't exist. The cost must be killed, that it does not exist. This is the economic logic whose protagonists are Pitic, Djelic, Dinkic, Vlahovic, he made it out a little bit, Kori Udovicki and this group of economists, who shower three times a day. The entire expertise is in the shower, not in the dry knowledge. Now I'm going to read you what happened to our banks. If my friend Borka Vukic is watching, and if she's not looking at those friends of hers, remind her that I mentioned her in the best possible context, although I'm wrong to be silent and not talking, and she would have to tell us, because when she tells us, then we'll understand this cruel fate that we experience with this kind of primitive – the vote from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, the arrest, etc. Now, I'm going to read you a short story written by some people who understand themselves in these trees, saying, "The liquidation of four banks of "Belgrade Bank", "Beobank", "Jugobanke" and "Investbanke" is not just an act of abolishing Serbia's banking system. The governor and his "Kalishnikov mentors" thus devised the liquidation of all arbitrary capacities and major trading systems, as the liquidation manager and various bankruptcy and liquidation agencies immediately set out accounts for the collection of all approved loans, whether they arrived or failed, with corresponding interest from the period of hyperinflation, sanctions and bombing of the Serbian economy. These powerful men did not wait for a decision by the Paris and London Club to reduce their claims for more than three billion dollars, but they attributed the discount to the state, as did several billion-dollar money from the sale of social enterprises over the budget, instead of focusing on the treatment of at least half of the Serbian economy. '"The bank's gone, abolished, made some new ones. They taught us that the state should not intervene in the banking system, hardly remain the Commercial Bank, but it is under the watchful control of the G17 plus, as well as the entire banking system. Now comes 180 degrees of change, so they say we extend the jurisdiction of the Deposit Insurance Agency, allegedly, that on behalf of the Republic, Cvetkovic is supposed to sit in the government, on the proposal of Governor Jelasic, who, in turn, is hitting large savings, so 17 rooms won't heat up in that 500-600 square-square villa, and probably won't even cut the grass anymore, but will be riding bicycles, because these are the austerity measures he is taking, they have concluded that they should preserve private capital in some banks. Whose?- I'm sorry. Foreign capital. To make it easier for you, dear viewers, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to understand this kind of primitiveism, it comes down to that – Mladjan Dinkic has been saying for years that Greenfield investment came from Italy, came from Zanzibar, who knows where it came from, here on this ledge will be a factory, will bring fresh capital, so says figures of 20m euros, 10m euros, that is a jutura, as far as you can say, it takes six months, and on the same meadow springs only those pillars, Mladjan Dinkic comes in and has a masterly signed contract under which the Republic of Serbia gives two thousand euros for each new open job. Under such conditions, any drought can be an employer. Under such conditions anyone can deal with the economy. Remember how many such locations there are. Doesn't this look like it? Why would the Republic of Serbia buy risky discounts in some banks, buy shares and keep other people's capital with us? Where's our capital from Cyprus? Who shut down our economy that lost its reproductive ability? Come on, people, let's file charges against these, against Boris Tadic, against Mladjan Dinkic, against Djelic. The charges need to be written here to execute the trial! That's the right thing to do. Here, here, in front of the cameras to let the citizens see! Who destroyed the Serbian economy? Who brought us into this situation? It'll be New Year's Eve, you'll see how big a course will be. And you're Socially Responsible Government? What kind of socialist is that, saving Raiffeisen Bank? Saving Pittick with this bank of his? No, Serbian citizens have no obligation to save these banks, but they have an obligation to seek the responsibility of the one who destroyed our banking system. That's the main question. (President: Time. Time is on my side.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10428	National MP Radulović Milos, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10429	Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I am taking the opportunity to ask Minister Dragutinovic's question and I am sorry that the chairman took away my word because that way I would make the Assembly more efficient, I would ask that question in the context of my presentation. I would ask you this time where I will quote my parliamentary question that I have asked Mrs Dragutinovic do not count as time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10430	I'm sorry, I'm going to have to count this time because it's not the Rules of Procedure that I'm supposed to count.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10431	At the meeting on 4 November 2008, I asked a parliamentary question about the reference interest that was at the moment, I talked about it, jumped from 15.75 to 17.75%. That's a 2% increase. Among other things, I said that yesterday we heard information that the biggest demand is currently with the citizens behind the safes. Citizens no longer trust banks. They keep the money in safes and, in the opinion of many eminent economists, please don't count this on me this time... (President: Please do not disturb Mr Radulovic)... Practically, money becomes such that it has value of gold. I asked, the DSS came out with a request to urgently form a commission and I think it's the last moment to do so. That was my parliamentary question. In response to the government, I received the following explanation: First, that the government has appointed a task force to monitor the global financial crisis and its impact on Serbia. Two, meetings were held with representatives of financial industry and real sector entities in order to look at the current impact of the global financial crisis on these sectors in Serbia, as well as identify possible measures that the state, on the proposal of those entities, could take. Under three, the government and the National Bank of Serbia brought the first package of measures. Under four, the government is preparing a new package of measures aimed at easing the impact of the crisis on the real sector. Under five, the assembly procedure contains the first set of laws from a package of measures the government has proposed. At that point, it was 18.11, Mr. Jelasic came out, and is not a member of any working group, nor is he familiar with the existence of any working group. (President: Time) I'm done. Another question – what are the effects of forming such a working group and these working groups when we have, at the moment, interest between 25 and 30% for business entities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10432	Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10433	I'm reporting from Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First, for the sake of the public to say that there are currently no Mrs. Nada Kolundžija and Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, the heads of the parliamentary groups present in the room. Here, you see how they obstruct the work of parliament and life in Serbia. I asked the Foreign Ministry and got an answer from Mr. Vuk Jeremic, who is not responding to the truth. Mr. Vuk Jeremic violated the resolution, which was brought in this House, when it came to the Eulex mission, as the issue was about the KIM EULEX mission for the motion for a resolution, which was tabled by 108 MPs in this House, which has not yet come to the agenda. Among other things, Vuk Jeremic says, "In line with the established principles of state policy, the government proposed talks with the UN in March this year to make UNMIK more efficient and to strengthen co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and UNMIK", etc. (I will not have time for all, "i.e. to reach an agreement on the joint implementation of Security Council Resolution 1244 in six areas: police, judiciary, customs, administrative crossings, traffic, infrastructure and Serbian cultural heritage, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Mun has formally informed the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic of our initiative's acceptance of the initiative by letter of 12 June 2008. Negotiations have been under way between the Republic of Serbia and the UN ever since. ''So, based on the letters exchanged between Boris Tadic and Ban Ki Moon, the talks between the Republic of Serbia and the UN started. I just don't know if it was there - dear George. On the EU mission, please, MPs, you have all voted in favour of this resolution, all who are in the hall now and now to hear that Minister Vuk Jeremic is lying, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is lying and that they deceive the peoples of Serbia. "As regards the EU mission to KIM, the government strictly respects the provisions of the National Republic of Serbia resolution on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, adopted on 26 December. In 2007. '"It goes on, and you know this well that it has never been the subject of any resolution so far. "It insists that the EU mission is only acceptable under the following conditions – the Security Council must make a decision on the mission, it must be under UN authority and operate under Resolution 1244, to be status neutral, or not to implement the provisions of Ahtisaari's plan. '' (President: Time) I reported on the basis of Article 201. Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. (President: Then you can be excused by 5 minutes) ''The government has decided not to accept the EU mission without prior receiving written guarantees from the UN that the conditions of the Republic of Serbia have been accepted. ''So, we never got guarantees from the UN Security Council. And what is worst of all is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the President of the Republic and Minister Vuk Jeremic are handling the text of some resolution that has never been adopted here. Take all resolutions, none of them mention the deployment of the EU mission, or Eulex. This was supposed to be the theme of the resolution we submitted in June – 108 MPs of the SRS, DSS and NS. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, have never put that resolution on the agenda. So, you broke the Constitution, the majority of the assembly broke the Constitution, the gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia broke the Constitution in the most cruel way possible, they broke... (President: Time)... the decision, i.e. the resolution that has been made in this Parliament. Yes, it's time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10434	The People's MP Filip Stojanovic has the word, and then the MP Arsen Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please focus your attention on the agenda and the contents, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10435	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Serbia, I report to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of members 225 and 226, and I ask the government of Serbia and Minister Vuk Jeremic for an explanation and an answer. We know that the Eulex mission of 9.12.2008 is violent and illegal on KIM. I ask the government of Serbia, and Minister Vuk Jeremic, on what grounds did she allow the presence of a mission in Serbia's territory? What that means is that the mission is statusally neutral when it applies the regulations so-called. Kosovo countries? Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, however, says the Eulex mission is being deployed on conditions clearly defined by Serbia. Where did Serbia define it, how, when we MPs don't know? Still says -- the Eulex mission in Kosovo will be strictly neutral. How neutral when implementing Ahtisaari's plan? And our minister still claims that Ahtisaari's plan is buried in the Security Council. Let him show me where it's buried! Serbia's government is calling for UN Secretary Ban Ki Moon's statement, saying the UNMIK mission is moving on to the Eulexa mission. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the UNMIK mission was not statusally neutral, but according to Resolution 1244 confirms Serbia's sovereignty. In this regard, I ask the question – did the Serbian Parliament not therefore consider the motion for a resolution tabled by 108 MPs? What will Serbia do to protect Serbia's sovereignty and end the illegal presence of the Eulex mission in Serbia's territory? I also demand that state authorities respond, how is the mission of a regional organisation whose member, or candidate for membership, I think of the European Union, can have a mission in the territory of a state that is neither a member nor a candidate for a member, and that this same organisation requires some conditions from the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10436	The word is Mr. Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10437	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Ministers, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. At 13 o'clock, we had a Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. He was present as State Secretary, Mr. Zoran Martinovic. By the way, we talked about the budget. I asked a question that is of interest to 12 thousand military reserves from the Jablani County – when the government will respond to their problems, i.e. When will the government pay them the rest of their war logs? I got a shrill answer because Mr. Martinovic didn't know the answer to that question. Otherwise, he told me that the Commission was sitting down and looking for a solution. So the proposal is to find a system solution for 12,000 reservers from the Jablani County. Otherwise, in case the Government does not respond adequately, i.e. Not to prepare the funds for next year, many of them will come before the government again and strike. So my proposal is that the government solve this problem in one system way. Question for Mr. Rasim Ljajic – when is he planning to pay for the rest of the war logs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10438	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10439	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I have to ask one of the key questions in Serbia today, December 15th, ladies and gentlemen. What will happen to the Strategic Partnership Treaty with the Italian automotive industry "Fiat", given the fact that, Mr Krasic, Mladjan Dinkic and Verica Kalanovic are in Kragujevac today? The suite came at the invitation of Veroljub Stevanović and the management of the car industry Zastava to try to iron out Markioni's statement that "Fiat" stops in Italy and you need to know that this is the first time, not just agency news, but, indeed, a tragic fact. The truth is that this factory in its history has never had so many workers on forced vacation. We, Kragujevci, especially us who, in one way or another, spent part of our working century in the Zastava car factory, such as my smallness, at a time when Zastava was the largest producer in our country, with 220 thousand units, and when we had only a cooperative contract with the "Fiita" and our representation in Italy, we always had a coldness, and what your party colleague and former director of our car factory, Mrs Djukić-Dejanović, Mr. Srboljub Vasović, "supervision" because of the mother's relationship with "Fijata" to "The flag", and at that time when we were at the height of our power as the car industry, when we had an extremely developed production of accompanying parts and programs, and when we didn't have, therefore, worried, real, that we were "Fiyat" at that time, 80 years ago, had to be able to be able to do so much of syn in the syn. You have now realized that in 2008 in the campaign, and that is where the list For European Serbia has profited more from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, one part of which we will feel in our pockets and the budget since January 1st, therefore, responsiblely argue that not only the people of Šumadija and Kragujevac voted for your list because they believed it would go smoothly. What are we going to do now, after writing an Italian newspaper, after the fact that the workers are concerned, that the whole Kragujevac is concerned and that they are trying to preserve the old production tapes, or that they are not going into the old iron? Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I will conclude, in the last 8 years since the DOS came to power, we have had here on several occasions on the Industry Committee a presentation of various future car models to be produced in the flag. Let us now have responsible management at the head of Mr. Radojevic, as he was here last year in the National Assembly building, Mr. Buha is ready to organise the Industry Committee, so let him as responsible, and Mladjan Dinkic tell us what will happen to the automotive industry at all, whether there is a chance that we hope, and obviously not, that this contract will be implemented, first of all, a contract that we never had in mind, its true form, because what you could find on the Internet site, it is only one stage, or one version. So, I am extremely concerned as a national MP from Kragujevac and the general public, it is necessary that management management both Kalanovicka and Dinkic appear as soon as possible, not to deceive citizens and iron out statements that are really cruel and that have arrived for the Italian "Fijata". Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10440	Gentlemen, please don't ask any parliamentary questions. I have suggested to the heads of Parliament that this session have a special point, namely a special day concerning parliamentary matters. This was rejected because we have a question of trust with the government and the budget of the opposition parliamentary groups. So, please, let's stick to the agenda and work on the agenda. Mr. Shormaz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10441	It's like I wanted to ask you to say what you just said. Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Namely, we are full of the mouth of the European Union and European standards, and then an MP here, specifically my colleague Milos Radulovic, asks the Minister's question (here, now as I speak, she and the Secretary of State are knocking on cell phones) she is sitting, not responding, not responding. (President: Mr. Shormaz, you have probably already noticed that Mrs. Minister records all the questions and will eventually give answers. ) Look, this is quite something else, about what you've been saying about MP issues. He did not ask a question in the discussion of the law, but asked a question per article. 225 and 226. In most parliaments, there is a day for voting in the European Union where ministers sit and have to come out for a pay phone and answer immediately. Here if it is not done, it means either the Minister doesn't know the answer or it takes her time to find out the answer, which doesn't mean she's a particularly good minister, if that's the case, or that she doesn't want to answer because she doesn't respect the MPs. If we already want European standards, I agree to put in the new Rules of Procedure a day for parliamentary matters, one in a week, such as most of the European Union's parliaments. When you're criticizing MPs for asking questions and asking them not to ask them, let's put one day but sit the government in front, not eight days in writing. I've asked, I repeat, the question, you weren't present, I've asked the same question for the third time, it's been eight days and I haven't received an answer from the Prime Minister. So, as you are now asking us to work effectively, I say – let the government answer so MPs won't ask questions, just once answer some of our questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10442	The word is Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10443	I'd like to get back to the agenda. I support, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, the amendment of MP Zoran Nikolic, who submitted on the basis of article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and proposed that Article 1 be deleted. The explanation is quite adequate, which is that the proposed solution is not good, because the Agency is gaining powers without the possibility of control by the legislative authority. It is a very important control by the legislative authority, but also respect for the decisions made by this legislative authority. It is also important that the executive authority responds in accordance with the laws and amendments adopted. In that name, what's my impression, is that the people who are looking at us are seriously starting to wonder if he's missing something or missing its representatives, because we've been playing in this high house for months. Deaf phones. On the one hand, the Assembly is passing laws, especially when the stubborn light coalition, currently minus G17, is to accept the correct amendments to the opposition. To make things worse, when the Assembly gives birth to laws, then the government and its prime minister in shadow, and actually the person in the role of Serbian President who decides what laws should be respected at all and which are irrelevant, because they do not make marketing points. I have already said once that New Serbia is not only a party with the most beautiful name on the political scene, but also a party that really has a vision of a new, strong, real democratic Serbia, which believes that the degree of democracy and responsibility of the state is measured precisely by the attitude to vulnerable groups, minorities and persons who are in their diversity and state of special needs completely neglected and discriminated against. The problem is that, given the way Serbian citizens treat this authority and this president, Serbia is clearly in need of the majority's rights ministry. Serbia, not only has puppet power, but the government is motivated by the exclusive marketing needs of those who, in the professional plan, would never prove that they did not choose politics. Therefore, all their actions are focused on the one-time sale of fog, handling with athletes who promise towers and cities when they become world-famous, like Cavic, and when promises are to be fulfilled, then there is no means and media space begins to be fulfilled by new lies. What's the swimming pool going to train, very stupid, and he's ungrateful when he had the chance to take pictures with such political lumens, which can only be met in this company under "yellow". If the authorities are irresponsiblely and falsely referring to those who are in full strength and who have the capacity to achieve world records, what should expect more than two-thirds of Serbia's pensioners, neglected young people, farmers who still have the status of the 13th-row citizens, be crucified between the need to contribute to a modest budget, work as horses, while at the same time be responsible for raising children and even the atmosphere in the family. The highlight of insanity is that in this general threat most Serbian citizens are those who are even more vulnerable because they have special needs, and thus special difficulties in achieving an elementary position of existential security. On December 3rd, at least on the agenda of marketing actions, many remembered that 800,000 people with disabilities live in Serbia. As far as the current authorities are concerned, they may have been reminded of the fact that it is an international day and a real person with disabilities, and they are doing everything possible to make the best students in the EU turn out to be. That, in itself, wouldn't be bad if it took longer than a day. What actually happened? A couple of actions were made, took a walk with Adam, held the Employment Fair, and that would be all. Since it is not a party led by marketing, but by state-of-the-art principles, New Serbia long before this international day, in the context of a budget rebalancing debate, on 31 October 2008, submitted an amendment to the following content: "The President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of article. Paragraphs 145 and 163. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we submit a technical amendment to Article 5. The draft budget law, which was set out on 23 October 2008 under the number: 014. etc., so that the amendment reads - is deleted no 1, 2 and 3 of the table of amendments, and item 4 is amended as follows: in Article 5 of Chapter 22 of Title 1 of the Financial Fund for Sports, economic classification 511, buildings and construction facilities, in column 6 entered in column 12 million, in column 8 the amount of 100 million is replaced by 112 million. ". It sounds incomprehensible, but Serbianly speaking, Ms. Finance, through our amendment, New Serbia, has accepted as an integral part of the budget rebalance to provide people with disabilities with 12 million to build new open sports fields. All in order and law, and now in the jurisdiction of the executive authority. I don't even need to mention how many different associations of people with disabilities, and there are over 50 of them, reported not only to thank us, but to send us their demands, ideas and projects. Among other things, correspondence from the Association of Distrophysicians of the Moravia County, the Dyslexic Children Association, the undersighted and the blind, have arrived. Instead of, by letter of the law, the competent ministry does its job, our deputy head of the New Serbia Parliament Club and chief applicant of the amendment, Mr Markicevic, received a memo on 4 December, without any stamps or signatures from the Committee for Finance of the Assembly. The faceless paper, which, on behalf of the Service of the Finance Committee, no one has entitled to sign, says: "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2008 Budget of the Republic of Serbia, Section 22, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Chapter 22.1. of the Budget Fund for the financing of sports on economic classification 511, buildings and construction facilities, has provided funds for new 12 million dinars as requested by the New Serbia People's MPs' Amendments since 31 October 2008. The funds provided by the 2008 budget rebalance can be used to build new sports grounds for people with special needs. "As we in New Serbia insisted on granting the money and obtaining it, on 4 December 2008, a telephone conversation was followed with representatives of the finance ministry in charge of the budget, not knowing who spoke on behalf of the Finance Committee, nor anyone from the ministry. The result of the conversation is the conclusion in this memo, drawn in large, bold letters: "How do we know that retreat, i.e. The use of these funds depends on submissions and projects to build a playground for people with special needs, the Youth and Sports Ministry. The Youth and Sports Ministry, as it continues to say in this nameless memo, needs to consider the submitted requests and projects and deliver them to the Treasury of Finance no later than December 12th for collection. ''In addition to Mr Markic's tenacity to ask the question on several occasions – what happens to the approved money for persons with special needs, good will and professionalism were shown by the vice president of this assembly, Mrs Gordana Komic and the president, Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, by delivering a stenogram of presentations to Miroslav Markic and asking for answers to his question on the same day. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic even manually wrote to insist on urgency. But for the government, the authorities do not seem to have any international ambassadors, not the vice president and president of the Assembly, and even less important persons with disabilities that the sports and finance ministers may recall in the election campaign. We warned on Thursday, December 11th, that the deadline for withdrawing funds expires on December 12th, but it is quite obvious that the lady, from a mile called 'balerina', especially since from this encrypted party to whom the name G17 minutes more than G17 plus can be applied, had a more significant job, along with her colleagues, to participate in the action of mineing the Gas Agreement and additional nailing for hot chaires in the government. This irresponsibility is only the latest in a series of destructive actions by the Youth Ministry and sports that are no longer known to be vomited, the University organization, the fantastic concern for youth or the dispersion of top athletes who have proudly presented their country, but the state had no hearing to respect them. Not only was the minister not able to keep domestic, top athletes in the country, but it has led directly to their dispersion in the world by its wrong actions and absence of constructive approach, which is the best evidence of the recent example of Milorad Cavic. Except for the support telegrams for him and the other top athletes, the conditions for demanding training are missing, not taps on the shoulder. In every normal country because of these results and notorious incompetences that make people joke that the youth ministry and sports in Serbia as the ministry of the Czech Republic, the resignation would follow. The last drop is this carelessness for people with disabilities, who in Serbia have 800,000. Just that there are eight, if the Assembly adopted the NS amendment, which provides extremely modest resources, given how much needs there are, then the competent minister cannot deal with his party problems and solving the enigma, how to keep the younger one in the government, but must get involved in his job a little, and she and other exemplars from the government. We received information from various representatives of the Association of Persons with Disabilities that they addressed the competent ministry with projects and designed concepts, but were told they were late, because it is time for the money from the Treasury to expire on December 12th. I wonder if the Minister of State and the other Eggmentaries from the Government will be very up-to-date when it comes to their salaries and whether they will manage not to get the money out of the Treasury, because they are late with the deadline. We may be boring to you from the NS, because we keep insisting on law enforcement, but with this attitude you in power clearly show that you are the best students of the late greatest son of all people and people in the SFRY, who, as a traveling pedagogogog, has spoken a famous, teaching sentence – God, people, should not stick to the law as a drunken float. And in yours, no, Tito, you know it well, Mrs. Kolundjia, I believe, you're a fan. It's not like a lady to throw. I don't know, Madam President, if this is about psychological or psychiatric problems, but I would ask you to allow me an atmosphere in which I would end up with an amendment, which applies to persons with disabilities. Can Mrs. Kolundjia do it now? I repeat, you in power clearly show that you are the best disciples of the deceased, the greatest son of all peoples and peoples in the SFRY, who you are very sorry for, who as a traveling pedagogal said a famous, teaching sentence – God, people, you should not stick to the law as a drunken float. There is a note in yours and in his case – especially the law of your country! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10444	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10445	Ladies and gentlemen, I answered on the basis of article 121, at the risk of having Mrs. Comic turn off my microphone, because it happened to me when I was talking about this member. Now I shall quote Article 121:''' The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them when they leave the National Assembly Hall. Item 2: ''If the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall and leaves it in the MP's unit, or next to it, his identification card, the National Assembly Service will immediately deliver that card to the Secretary of the National Assembly. The card will be returned to the People's MP upon entering the O.R. ''It has already been more than once, in fact, a practice that the MP and head of the DS Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Kolundjia, is already leaving the hall leaving his card on the identification unit. Why? Why is she doing this? Because Mrs. Kolundzija likes to read statistics, likes to keep the media informed, how much time she spends in the O.R., how much time she calls, how much time she spends speaking from this place, and then to have an excuse, that she's the most, or that she's amongst those who spend most time in the O.R., then Mrs. Kolundzia leaves a card, and she's not in the O.R. When I intervened in this regard last time, my colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, while I was speaking, pulled out Mrs. Kolundzhija's card. Now Vlatko wasn't here, so no one thought to do it. Mrs. Kolundjia returned in the meantime, but of course that was no reason for me to give up this warning. Mrs. Comic, I actually wanted to help you, because maybe you don't see where you have all your cards from there, and the MP isn't in the O.R., or where they pulled out so carefully, so they're here, on this screen, well, here's just to warn you to call the Service, to walk around, to reset the situation in places where there's a green square on the screen, like there's an MP there, and it's not really. And, of course, to draw attention to, above all, Serbia's citizens, how, in fact, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, the head of the DS Group is obstructing the work of parliament, obstructing the citizens of Serbia, obstructing the interests of citizens of Serbia, because if someone is represented as being in the hall, and he is not in the hall, then how can you, after that, believe that someone who is not actually in the hall, represents certain facts from the hall, in relation to the MPs who do not come out at the time when Parliament is working out of this hall and who regularly respect their parliamentary obligations. Of course, opposition MPs never do quorum. (President: Time. I'm keeping an eye on you, Mrs. Comic, for a second, given what I've been quoting. Now I'm over three seconds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10446	I ask the National Assembly to remove all the cards that the MPs left in the benches and apply Article 121. I ask the People's MP, Ms. Radet, to pay tribute to his colleagues. The People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, is the president of the ZES Group of MPs. Natasa Jovanovic asks me – what is it, probably with what Mrs Radeta said. Mrs. Radeta said it was the head of the DS Parliament Group. I ask you all together to respect all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to take care of how we address each other. As far as your observations are concerned, there has been a switch-off, it is and will be in each of the following cases, if I notice that you are not registered in the electronic system, especially in such a situation you have called for the respect of the same member that you are violating yourself. For everything else, tolerance is respected and implies between us, as well as your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, that the opposition has the right to from the technical question – respect for Articles 121 and 222, I am not sure, or 221, must be quoted correctly, the obligation of the MPs to enter the hall to register in the electronic voting system. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji has a word. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on article 100. 1
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10447	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 101, because I have been told the most gravely false things here, and I ask that in the day of the vote we declare that Ms. Verica Radeta has broken the Rules of Procedure harshly because she is saying things that are simply not true. I understand that radicals are very upset with the data that are accurate, data that unequivocally show how much time, hours, they take away Serbian citizens, how much abuse of the Rules of Procedure makes it impossible for this assembly to work, and I am sorry that you have no other way to disprove the facts, but by trying to attack me, you will not change the facts, nor the fact that I am really very much time in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10448	We'll make a statement on the request on voter day. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10449	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from an article. 101st and 104th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You all heard and the public heard that I didn't say at any point that Mrs. Hope Kolundji didn't spend a lot of time in this room, here, I guess that's how it went down when I came out to say you're not in the O.R. I have said twice today that you are not in the room, has drawn attention to the citizens of Serbia in which you are obstructing Parliament's work. This time when I got out, did I tell you the truth when I said you left the gym, that you were away for a while, that you were back and that your card was in the MP's unit the whole time? It's absolutely undeniable, they saw all the colleagues sitting around you. You don't, Mrs. Kolundjia, play Bodrum. Well, we remember that, and these are Neda Arneric's tickets, and those are plane tickets. So let's not play when you sat there as a representative of Neboja Covic, when counterpart Krasic went after the benches where the Democratic Party MPs sat, when he took out the cards because the chairman then refused to invite the Service to do so. You were there, remember, when Bojan Pajtic got very angry because he was one of those who claimed that Neda Arneric voted, that she was not in Bodrum, but that she was in the O.R. Well, Boris Tadic swore in every living thing that none of the officials who participated in the Bodrum affair would have any function in the party, let alone in the country. And to him now Bojan Pajtic at the highest post in Vojvodina, of course, with a certain goal of conducting together with him the Statute of Vojvodina, to prepare Vojvodina for secession. But we'll talk about it when it's done, just get it right away, that's what you were doing when we talked about Eulex and when we convinced you that we should talk about Kosovo and Metohija here, so today we have a seat in Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen, take care, we present the facts, they often hurt, it hurts us and the fact that you want to separate Vojvodina, it hurts us more than it hurts you, but it's a fact. The only reason I want to apologize to Nadia Kolundzija is because I insulted her for saying she was the president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and I didn't know you were ashamed of being a member of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10450	People's MPs, I warn you of the need for the respect of Members of the 104th and the conduct of the Members of the People. The fact that you have twice told the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is unacceptable and you would not like it if anyone spoke to you in any way but as it stands on the website of the National Assembly and as President of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. I warn you of more careful choice of words while you are at the speaker of the National Assembly and I remind you of your responsibility for the public word. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10451	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I have received a letter from the workers of the "Employment Bank" Panchevo. Bank workers also point out to me that a group of people, i.e. a group of people, have been resolved by the government of the Republic of Serbia. members of the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency. By 6 December, it was Dr Slobodan Ilic, president, I have a rare opportunity and an honour to address you, to give one notice, then Dr Mirko Cvetkovic, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Dr Predrag Bubalo, Mira Erić-Jović, member, Mirjana Jovasevic, member, Emica Zdravković, member. The government of the Republic of Serbia, however, appointed new members and the new chairman of the Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board after the members were released. The head of the board is President Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the finance ministry. For members: Dr Diana Dragutinovic, Finance Minister Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mira Eric-Jovic, Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Emica Zdravkovic, dipl. A lawyer at the Association of Banks of Serbia, Ljubomir Ilkic, adviser to the director of the Broker-Driler Society and Dragan Pavlovic, head of the corporate tax group at the finance ministry. Mr. Ilic, please, if you would be so kind, if you would, and if you would give us answers, because I have a letter from the workers and I have an obligation as an MP, as an MP, they have also spoken to me. Did you know, Mr. Ilic, that Munić Snježana received 5,352. Thousands of dinars as president of the Bank's Executive Board, that Kavaja Svetlana received 3,584 thousand dinars, Pejčić Nenad 2,965 thousand dinars, Đuric Vesna 774 eight hundred thousands of dinars, Urosevic Nenad one million dinars, did you know that Mihajlović Nadica received 774 thousand dinars, Pantelić Marija from Belgrade a member of the Management Board... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to whom you are calling for damage. )......................................................................................................... Article 226, I have the right to ask for a notice, and this is a rare opportunity, Madam Vice President, because it is a state secretary who can, not apply to the Secretary of State, that he personally received money, does not refer to the minister that he received the money, but I am now talking about the members mentioned in this letter, and on the site, as I am informed, the banks and agencies have these data. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'd like to ask you. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10452	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10453	Mrs. Komic, I must warn you that you are misapplying Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You can see on your monitor, as MPs can see on this big monitor, there should be four cards here, the president and three vice presidents, I currently see two vice presidents. Here is your card, based on which the system works, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, and there is also the card of Vice President Nikola Novakovic, who is not there. So, there's nothing to argue about, you all see. Of course, I didn't go out because of the statistic of Mrs. Hope Kolundji, who's not in the O.R. right now. I came out to warn you that in voter day, you find that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure. This injury is seen in the following: I like Mrs. Hope Kolundžija, far more than Srdjan Milivojevic, my God, there is no need to think. By democratic standards it should be the other way around, but by normal standards, of course, I'm a normal man and that's my problem in Serbia right now. You see, Mrs. Hope Kolundzija bit all the MPs by the heart. Why? No, all MPs, not Meso opposition, but all MPs. Why? It is possible that 1,200 times we came out of this booth to criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Eulex, killing a boy in a protest, a difficult social, material position, etc. She's in agreement with B92 and other media, for the weekend it was the main news that the Assembly is not working. The assembly works, but you DS don't work, you don't talk, you don't talk, you don't shut up, because you don't have a say in this. Come out and tell me, our position on this is that. No, you're mostly defending yourself with silence and counting on the media to finish what's wrong with your political activity in the National Assembly. Mrs. Comic, as I am near the end of this time of mine, you said in response to Mrs. Verice Radeti that Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija was the president of the ZES Group, not DS, because there is no such thing and you said to look at the site. I've looked at the site and I haven't seen one parliamentary group or the political party you're calling here. Please, when you make those criteria, make sure it's an objective criterion. I fully understand Mrs. Slavica Djukic, who has the authority to have her own parliamentary group. Then take that into consideration and don't blame Veronica for what she said. If you're already calling the site, let's all call that site and let's see. I would ask you, at last, to go with these amendments, Europe, brother, escape, and what do you mean in Europe without a quorum? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Ma'am, look, they're touching me. She has to go to Europe with a quorum, she can't go without a quorum. He can't go to Europe with silence. We'll talk about lies in particular. Please, in the day of voting to find that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10454	National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10455	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, I would just like to continue a few more words, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State to tell us, however, whether these are the exact details I have provided, and to add the allegations that Uroševic Nenad received a million dinars, Nadica Mihailovic 774 thousand dinars and Marija Mitic 905,000 dinars. The second question I'm looking for is whether you knew that the Bank of Commerce was operating indeterminately, and that the employees were punished for six months. Their salary was reduced by 10% according to workers' claims. Mr. Ilic, State Secretary, as Agency for this area, did you know and have any measures taken, did the Deposit Agency take any action, did some action take by the National Bank? If so, what measures? Has the National Bank or your Agency identified any irregularities? Workers suggest that numerous irregularities have been identified and that this was the basis for which the Management Board was allegedly amended. Does the Governing Board now receive such income, as they did in the previous Management Board? And according to what Mr. Dinkic said, you are in control and you have authority towards the bank, if that's true, and I think it is, the Agency is in control and has jurisdiction over the "Employment Bank" in Panchev. Please, if there are irregularities, what irregularities are involved, I would exactly ask for notice and what procedure has been initiated, if anything has been initiated? Did you know that the worker of that business bank in Pančev, Mr Kocevski, because he was suspected of taking it out to the public, so they wrote the newspaper "Pancevac", and apparently "Blic", that's why he should be checked, and that's why I'm moving it from Panchev to work in Alibunar, otherwise he was a lodger at "Pančevac Bank", lives in Kačarevo, and Kačarevo-Pancevo is 10 kilometers away... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring. )......................................................................................................... Thank you, I'm finishing, and now it's going to be 100 kilometers a day, from Kacharev to Alibunar and vice versa. Please, I'm asking you for a notice, did you know about this and can you give us that notice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10456	For a word in the discussion in particular, and according to the amendment to Article 1, MP Milan Lapčević, excuse me, MP Dragan Šormaz, excuse me, the time available for the parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10457	That's my colleague Zoran Nikolic's amendment, which we support, of course, all of us from the DSS. It would be good to adopt. He put out a lot of arguments here, and I really can't repeat all these arguments in three minutes, just like he's been saying for 12 minutes on this subject. The only thing I want to add to all of this is that it would be good to focus the camera on what I'm talking about, and of course, it's about Secretary of State Ilic, who is present here now, and it's also about this member and the law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. I repeat now, and some colleagues have already said, that at the meeting of the Committee on Finance when the DSS proposed, even before it proposed this same bill, as the Parliamentary Group, which is normally entitled by both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, each MP is the same as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we are called the populists, and one opposition party, which I otherwise call the spare tire in the trunk of this government, and their representatives then said it was unserious, that the proposal for a deposit of 20,000 euros in this bill too much and that the state could not in such a non-serious way apply. We were talked about as unserious people, about the populists, about how we spread panic, about demagogy among Serbian citizens. The Secretary of State, who should be sitting here right now and not being quiet, because he has no right to speak as I speak, and he repeats - true, that our bill is completely unnecessary, that these measures are unnecessary, because the banking system is stable. The government has now appointed the chairman of the Management Board of this agency to which this law applies, exactly, to the concerned Mr. Ilic, which is why I said that the camera is well recorded and remembered by the citizens, so that it would not happen to read the headlines again, as we read about Krisht or Mrs. Zelec, simply so that it is known in advance who it is, because it should be managed by the Agency that has discretionary right to buy bank actions in Serbia, and it did not know in October what kind of crisis is hitting the doors of Serbia, whether our proposal for law is unnecessary or necessary, and later that same government proposes two-and-a-half times more deposits than we have suggested. Clean, security works, to keep an eye on who's appointed chairman of the Management Board, because he needs to run that agency and he needs to decide which actions to buy and which banks, because he has discretionary rights. Therefore, it is another argument more for all those MPs who are seriously considering accepting the amendment of MP Zoran Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10458	Your group has three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Madam Minister, the NS MPs support the amendment of DSS MP Zoran Nikolic. But we have problems here with those amendments and they accept, because they can't be implemented. New Serbia's deputy head of the parliamentary group, Miroslav Markicevic, has submitted an amendment, which you have accepted. We had a little discussion here on Friday night with you, where you accepted that it was absolutely realized, but today the outcome of all this is that the Royal Disabilities Association came across a closed door at the Ministry of Sports, where they were told that the deadlines had expired. So it's over. How are we going to implement that amendment? Please, I urgently ask you to call the Department of Sports and keep that promise you made to us. Don't close your eyes to the truth! People with special purposes, disabled people, are right, we have provided it for them in this National Assembly and we want to implement the amendment to work. Not a dead letter on paper, you show good faith, accept the amendment, and when it needs to be realized, by the amendments and by that money, which these people mean life, there's nothing. So, once again, on behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, I ask you to respond urgently, so that what we have after this assembly speaker, as NS MPs, can be fought, implemented and these people with huge problems come into contact. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10460	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Finance Committee has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10461	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, citizens of Serbia, Mrs Dragutinovic, and this time I make an exception by addressing the state secretary present, Mr Ilic, because he is an important factor in this story. Since the debate on this law has long been held in principle, I will begin by quoting Mr Jelasic. He started his papers by saying, "It all started with the agency and the banks," and this is one rare opportunity where I have to admit he was right. All evil began from the agency and from banks in 2001, by deciding to destroy the financial system of the Republic of Serbia by privatising it, by cutting it from case to case, and by resulting in an opportunity to watch today. And the last Serbian citizen, who suspected the importance of the financial system and domestic ownership in banks and the consequences of that ownership on the real sector, on the economy, on the job, on employment, on our future, has now had the opportunity to see it. Everyone admits that the financial crisis is something that will show its negative effects on our economy, in the absence of credit for development. Everyone admits that our dependence on the Western European banking system is the reason we will suffer in the financial crisis. And what does the government do? Using the excuse "World Financial Crisis", the security of savings and the increase in the amount of deposits the state guarantees through its agency, increasing that amount from three thousand to 50,000, is in fact creating a smoke screen to amend the law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, the Agency that started and continues the business of the state of banks and their destruction. Umberto Eko would say "the whole world is walking deep on its head." Indeed, you are walking through the state of Serbia deep on your head and trying to tell us that you will introduce order by creating chaos. Let me explain to the citizens why I'm talking to Mr. Ilic. Mr. Ilic is the chairman of the Deposit Insurance Agency's Management Board, is again appointed to the post on December 6th, and only one of the members is replaced, the head of the cabinet of our prime minister, Ms. Mirjana Jovasevic has been replaced by some new members, but everyone else, as a credit for good and hard work, remained to be members. The law says seven members are elected from the finance ministry, the NBS and the Banks' Association. Mrs Dragutinovic, I expect you, unlike Mr Cvetkovic, as former finance minister, to deal with the way the deposit insurance agency intends to handle the financial system. Dear citizens, the government has made a decision that, on a proposal from the National Bank, it will pass an act to which the Deposit Insurance Agency will implement a new state of banks, and in the process of buying the shares of those banks that are disrupting financial stability. Translated in plain language, that means - The National Bank has to write a proposal, the government can't arrange anything until the National Bank writes a proposal to it. The People's Bank has been sweetened by the discretionary right, to be dependent on it by the fate of a bank, in terms of closure or further work, literally standing in her hands fate. (President:...) I warn you that it is inappropriate to hit hands against the bench in the National Assembly Hall and thus demean both the National Assembly and the pay phone. ) Mrs. Comic, I can take the pressure. I'm handled by much more important and bigger things and it can't upset me. Serbian citizens can hear this thanks to the way RTS is transferring this session. The National Bank of Serbia remains the most important factor that will not bear responsibility for the fate of people employed in these banks, for deposits, for loans and for savings because the government agrees with this proposal that the government is acting, and the government cannot react until the National Bank makes a proposal. I ask my amendment to obtain the opinion of the National Bank, because I know that you will not give up on this law, but I am working on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia to imitate the law of your conduct, means that the initiative is in the Government, that the National Bank delivers a reasoned opinion and that the purchase of actions from banks that are otherwise not state-owned can be done in a situation only that there are reasoned reasons that are listed in an act, for example, a solution. To such an amendment, the Government answers that if an opinion is obtained or a solution is reached, otherwise the Banks Act stipulates that it would be a long procedure in which judicial protection would be sought, and within a short time, they would not be able to be remedied as negative effects of such action. I'm an economist, I'm not a lawyer, but every citizen knows the right to know that there is no man or institution who is not allowed judicial protection. This is a short court for banks where an attempt to relocate or confiscate property or dispose of ownership is completely irrelevant, it repeats and it is a rerun of what was done in 2002, at a time when banks, and 16 banks, including banks, have not yet finished for any bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, and some have been sold, and the money from these privatisations has been non-transparetically spent and it is a special story, but it is a reason why the Government should not be allowed to act like this. What's the special problem when I say you want to prevent chaos, but you're actually creating it? Whether there is any procedure, whether there is any action on the globe in which you can, you are at the Agency that will implement this law, you are a member of the Government that will bring an act which, indirectly, you are a member of the Government with the possibility of influence, allow to be initiated on a proposal from the National Bank, and I ask for a reasoned opinion and there is a big difference, one such procedure is launched. What's this gonna do for a score? Where there's no problem, you can create it. Examples exist in our reality. Where there is no problem, the National Bank can create it by misusing its discretionary rights and control mechanisms. Dear citizens and colleagues, although there is a Act on Banks which in art. From 101 to 120, it regulates both preventive control and warning control mechanisms, solutions to correct certain irregularities, and although there is a 141 monthly report delivered to each of the National Bank's business banks, the National Bank will suddenly be surprised when a business bank starts to disrupt the financial market by its actions. It is not true that the National Bank has no insight into business, mode of work and irregularities! The National Bank should create such problems if someone assesses that it suits him. And why is that? Because in 2001 and 2002 we have open bankruptcy over four large banks in which so far, none of them have completed bankruptcy but over 11.5 billion dinars have been charged for these four large banks. There is a document on this in response to a question submitted by the Serbian government on 28 December 2007. What it doesn't say here is that tens of millions of revenues from the sale of art paintings, what we all know, and not yet processed, is that the business space of these banks was given at no charge or at extremely favourable prices to some banks that only represented themselves as state-owned and we today won't be able to verify that Mr Dinkic, then present today, was present both in the Government and the Agency, favored the related persons, or former owners of the Post Office in which the state lost and individuals earned. Mr. Ilic, I respect you, but I am not interested in you as a person, I am interested in you as chairman of the Management Board of the Agency, which, although legally binding, has last delivered a report for 2006. At least once a year, you are obliged to show us how you own state property, whether this country is benefiting or not, that is, which, under the state property conservation company and work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, is actually making money while the state of Serbia is losing. The responsibility and obligation of the finance minister is never to allow the situation in which, as in September 2002, the SRJ, I read part of the law, transferred property to the Republic of Serbia over actions acquired by the conversion of claims to banks, according to Paris and London Club creditors. Then 16 banks were given for sale or for bankruptcy with a ban that domestic legal persons as buyers could appear. You forget that the financial system is the flow of this economy, that we don't have domestic production because we don't have domestic banking, that the market is cleared to enter foreign banks here, and it's not enough that the situation is what it is, that we depend on foreign money, that domestic savings is invested in foreign banks, that we help their development, but you keep trying to make it possible for yourself, through the National Bank, which is done by the Agency, to continue the process of decommissioning and domestic banking where it still exists and destroying the domestic industry that depends on this banking process, and which in this process we all lose. I think one day you'll be answering for this pay phone. Thank you. (At the time of Parliament's speech, Jorgovanka Tabakovic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench all the time. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10462	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10463	Mrs. Comic, she just lacked an oath to write on this amendment so that we can believe like all these oaths that some swear. Mrs Dragutinović, if you would adopt this amendment, then you would really wash away everything that is wrong with your bill. I couldn't even read or see the worse amendment. Now let me explain why. It's, like, like the government suggests something, so it says, "Here, we burn this room down, and then the amendment comes and it burns down not just the building, but three blocks." Mrs Dragutinović, Mr Ilic, I do not want to call you, it would not be correct, since you cannot answer me by the Rules of Procedure, so it is illusory to mention your name. It would be incorrect on my side. I'd like to draw your attention to Article 1. The bill, which now, if it were to pass what you suggested, etc. in the first place, he lost an invitation to Article 7, where he made contact with banks where the state was present with its capital. Since it's not there, this applies to all banks. It's an idea. It's neither whole nor justifiable, nor constitutional, nor legally what you're proposing. So in the original text, it means an existing Article 9. The law is acceptable under certain conditions. When this law was passed, this member was controversial because the Deposit Insurance Agency should do very specific jobs. The primary job is to secure deposits, a job has been added to the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. It's a job that's been in existence since 1993 under federal regulations. There was nothing new here, because it is a very specific process of liquidation and bankruptcy and functions of the liquidator and bankruptcy manager when it comes to the banking system in relation to businesses, work organisations, etc. Then, in Article 9, it remained literally said what business is of interest to the Republic of Serbia. When it is said – a job of interest for the Republic of Serbia, the executive authority carries out these tasks. It's the government. The question is, what in this law could have been given to the government, the Agency and that it was executive work? So I say, under some conditions, that kind of article 9 could go because it referred to state intervention to banks, where there is state capital. When you expand that to all banks, I don't want to get into whether the NBS proposal is needed, whether the NBS opinion or this worst version is needed – a solution. The question is what would be determined by that solution? What is the purpose of this solution? What is the legal power of this solution? You have rightly asked the question, if a solution is made, then there must be an administrative procedure, an administrative dispute at the very end of the case. That's why I won't comment on that part at all. But the central question arises – are you on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and whether the NBS, in coalition with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, these are two executive authorities, the government is a little more, the NBS has some independence, but formally belongs to the executive government, can the two executive authorities intervene with all banks? Why would the state, the Republic of Serbia, read what you left behind, cover the potential losses of Raiffeisen Bank, or any other bank, or the Bank of Intects, where these experts are getting high. Tell me, what's the interest when they work with the public? They're very modest placements when it comes to legal faces. In these civil affairs, the law has been passed to secure deposits. What are they doing with legal faces? Why would you take care of some bad placement of that bank? Why would you keep that bank? Why are the taxpayers guarding Raiffeisen Bank? You know how they deal with citizens, they grow up citizens! He says, "To take over, buy or otherwise acquire bad activity." The state to buy a bad activity at Raiffeisen Bank? Excuse me, please, you either need to close down or you need to move somewhere else. From where? What means? You're creating a deficit in the budget, you're saying -- we're going to buy something that's bad in the banks of suspicious capital. We can't let you do that. This is where you testify - the global economic crisis. What would the Republic of Serbia, which the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, through the budget would intervene with the means to buy something that was bad? What's being saved? It's some kind of company placement. Which one? Not to read you the data on the structure of the social product, from 20 percent agricultural participation, and now it's 11%. In the real sector, there were millions of employees, in seven years you have dropped to nearly 600,000, according to what has 500 companies, over which to close down bankruptcy in 2009 and what will lose 200,000 jobs and another 100,000 jobs because of this poor banking system what will remain for us in the real sector, three hundred thousand employees? Three hundred thousand employees who need to generate income to live on 7.5 million. What economy can stand it?- I'm sorry. You will intervene through the Agency on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, by buying bad bank placements to preserve the economy, please don't. You can talk to these zombies, don't talk to me. Just swear that's the way it's gonna be. Tadic swore an oath, so he sold Kosovo. Swear this is how it's gonna be. Tax bonds are supposed to save banks headed by people who have fallen abroad, I hope you share my opinion, Mr. Batic, like Pitic. You've got this Djelic, there's $11.5 million in the bank. There's not that much, is there more? And we save his bank, where he's a genius, in a year and a half in opposition to 11.5m euros in shares. They didn't know how to pay off his bonuses to that genius. Don't make your genius moves to pay for poor Serbian citizens. I can't raise my hand for that. And you swear. We have these pledges here. Next, you say, "Govern the bad asset and sell that asset in the bank." How can you do that? It's only, like the fourth measure, to buy action. How can you answer these questions without buying shares in any bank? You can commercially. Why would they go into commercial risk over something you know at the beginning is bad? He can't. Next, the most controversial thing is this, there's the next amendment, where you're asked to delete. "To buy on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business." Please, if the business of a bank is compromised, the financial stability of the state means that the bank is not, above all, liquid. There's no orderly way to make payment traffic through her account. In the second phase, the insolvency of the bank. If it is insolvency, it is known – it goes bankrupt. What would we keep? Now you've got your foot up because the Americans rocked hundreds of billions to save the banking system. What they didn't do in 2000, 2001, 2002, then it wouldn't fall from 60 to 40% to the impact of our real sector on the gross social product. No, you destroyed it knowingly, all for sale. For the system to be preserved and maintained, for what? Because of the foreigners who put their capital here. Now all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are going to resuscitate. Recover what? Who can help? To help those rich who don't know what to do. Do you know for the first six months, and I know that you know, the Banks' Association has brought out data, foreign banks in Serbia have earned 300m euros. What are your comments from the surrounding states? Of course we finance, of course we are present on the banking market of the Republic of Serbia. That money and that profit would never have been earned in Greece, Germany, Austria, France! Well, gentlemen, if you've earned that money, leave them here, keep your liquidity, keep your insolvency, not your money, and now the taxpayers of Serbia, what to stabilise – licking credits. For whose benefit – in favour of banks?- I'm sorry. To whose harm – citizens of the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. This is the only country where tax policy is where citizens finance their own destruction. It's nowhere on the globe. Nowhere! Please, 60% of the budget revenue you're planning for next year is based on imports. Why? Because he corned up the guy who got a slap in Brussels, "let's go, come on, we're looking forward to it," got a slap, came back and said – no, we'll just apply it." Double damage. Where's our production? She's gone. What have you done for eight years? Is there a bridge, is there a building, is there a thermal power plant? What did you do? The only thing that financed him, a Serbian congress in America, is that he's supposed to learn something as Fulbright's student. This Jelasic, he came here to blow his brains out. A governor like that could be anyone, like Jelasic. I hope you'll call Milivojevic after he answers, and he's embarrassed to raise his hand. Come in, we'll set up a mirror here, like at home when you practice. He's at home practicing, he's got one mirror, he puts in the size of a man, and he practices in a mirror how to look nice. Put the mirror here, so wear this laptop. (President: Do not refer such sentences to Mr Milivojevic, please. I'm sorry, I didn't know about this flight change. I'm really sorry, if I'd known about this change, I wouldn't have commented on it like this, I thought my Gordana Comic was here, she'd tolerate me. Besides, you guys get involved in a serious debate about this. Don't defend yourself with silence. Defend the government by silence, defend the MPs' group with silence, and then we hear in Subotics only threats. As a few days of threat, don't, you have to listen to me - to prison. No, you have to listen to me - to prison. Keep your jobs in your hands. They, tap, tent in front of his office. They take it seriously, they don't know it's lies and fraud, and this law is both a lie and a fraud. If you thought that the Republic of Serbia could enter as a shareholder, buy up shares and own capital by choice in all banks, then you must know that it's a two-sided legal business and that it's a matter that needs to be regulated by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Law on Banks. These are two regulations where this provision should be, and certainly not in the law of the Deposit Insurance Agency. But, no, you have 126, and you're probably going to push this through, and then you're going to corn in the media -- citizens, your stakes are protected up to 50,000 euros, no one can do anything to you, and then they're going to zoom in with this "squeaky amendment" to scare you and then, of course, you're turning out to be flowers. When those who swear to sin, there's nothing else, but I'm counting on you to swear, so I hope you'll keep your oaths.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10464	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10465	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, concerning the proposed amendment, I have a few questions. Will the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act also apply to the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow? I am responsibly saying that it may be the largest bank in this area, the only headquarters that has been moved to Moscow. More than a month ago, I asked you a question, maybe it shouldn't have been addressed to the address of the finance minister, but anyway, I asked you and the governor of the National Bank -- how many of the country's foreign reserves are in the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow? There's no answer. Let me remind you that the largest shareholders of that bank are the tycoons here, four or five of the largest tycoons here. Let me remind you, too, that some of them are favorites of one of the government's vice-presidents in which you, of that Euroaxis bank, got loans from the country's foreign reserves, without investing any of your money. With that loan money, the country's foreign reserves bought shares in the National Savings Bank. When the National Savings Bank was privatised, they sold them eight to nine times more expensive and earned millions of euros. It's called a robbery of the state and the people. Not to remind you of that old story about the National Savings Officer that your colleague from today's government then presented as a respectable, modern, strong state bank, so he named her "National" so that people in their minds could create confusion that she had something to do with the state and the people. Of course, buildings, business space, equipment, computers, software are confiscated, employees of the Payment Service, i.e. SDK. After that, it turned out to be all a colorful lie. The second question about this and what, ma'am, is directly to you, I've asked it countless times to your predecessors and there was no answer – was the VAT paid during the sale of Delta Bank? Please provide me with an answer here. Next question - where did the money go from the sale of Delta Bank, the Bank of Intes, here or perhaps Cyprus? The question stems from the following question – is the money transfer tax paid from Serbia to Cyprus? You will probably remember those archive recordings where Mladjan Dinkic drinks champagne as the finance minister at the time when he sells Delta Bank, "Banci Inteza", instead of drinking champagne from the finance minister of Cyprus. Please answer this question. In order not to answer the Rules of Procedure, I only have one more question, not to you, but to the Government. All of you, fellow Members of the People, are witnesses of something that has no meaning. When you get home, look at any TV program, and then in the commercial break you'll see something that sounds amazing, there's a constant spin of "The Oil Industry of Serbia" commercials. Look, NIS is advertised now, and it's never advertised before, but it's now advertised. How much money was spent, that's a question for the government, for the current senseless NIS campaign? Is this leadership that robbed the taxpayers of Serbia for its astronomical wages, now that it can't anymore, I guess it won't be able to get those enormous salaries, it wants to launder a little money over pointless NIS ads?- I'm sorry. Please, dear colleagues, we all miss those commercials, but look what nonsense it is, what a theater of absurdity it is. The NIS that was going to be privatized in a few days began to make a commercial like it was yet to follow the tender to see that it was a powerful, respectable company and to make as much price as possible. Something that's already been asked today as a question, so let me ask it myself. Since I have my friends on the Italian "RAI Uno", today, ladies and gentlemen, my longtime friend Mila Mihajlović is an editor of "RAI Uno", the central theme of "RAI Uno" is agony or collapse of "Fijata". So, the central theme on the head of the Italian television program, all the leading pages of "Koriere del part sera", "In Gjornale", "La Stampa", "Republic" on the front pages speak of agony of "Fiata". So, that the government gives an answer, does it talk about the 'Fiat', about 'The flag', about one epic, historical business, because everything Mladjan Dinkic does is historic, what others do is historical, so he calls his partner from the same party, Mr Davinić, and what, as his contribution, is as a free action, as a privatization of 'Fiat', it's all historic, but time very quickly shows that it's a historic failure, so I ask the government to answer the question – what's going to happen to the 'Fiat'? They now remembered to warn people at the flag to preserve existing equipment, like, never mind, we're going to produce Fiat-Florida, or the flag-florid, or the Jugic, they might also go to Ficu to produce. (President: You will bring the end, please, although you have the right three minutes per Rules of Procedure and three minutes per amendment. I'm done. So, are they going to do something or are they going to grow mushrooms in the flag? Looks like that's all that's left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10466	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10467	On the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Namely, an MP here said that he should not be accepted because he is harmful, because it supports the government of the Republic of Serbia. I must tell the citizens of Serbia that it is the right of the MP to submit an amendment, and then also an extraordinary amendment that is actually preventing a court from being interrupted by this law in both positions of Article 9. Laws, i.e. Article 1. The bill, under which suddenly, without the basis of the Law on Banks, makes up a proposal to the Government of Serbia, which then requires the Agency to cover potential losses, take over, buy or otherwise acquire a bad activity, manage the poor activity and sell that activity, stay in the first part of this amendment, I am interested – why is there a proposal from the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia inserted here, and why is it bad to say, in the opinion of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia? Where in the Law on Banks, in the discretionary rights of the National Bank or in other rights, there is now a possibility that the National Bank shall adopt a proposal on at least the first four points of the Act to be amended, and then demeaningly, it seems to me, according to the proposed law, according to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the second part of the amendment in which MP Jorgenka Tabakovic proposes that the purchase in the name and the account of the Republic of Serbia of the Banks' actions which threaten the financial stability of their operations be carried out on the basis of the NBS adopted in accordance with the Law on Banks, the Government shall say that this is a procedure that requires a certain time, so that any NBS solution is subject to review by the competent court, provided that a solution by one of the parties is contested and in case of dispute cannot be handled and the measures which they wish to be implemented within the short term. (President: Time) I'm sorry, I'm done. You forget that the NBS has a discretionary right under Article 120 to make a solution, a decision on the extent to which the bank threatens financial discipline and the smooth functioning of the banking system. As part of its regular business, the National Bank already determines which banks are causing financial instability and is only sufficient to act on the basis of this decision by the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, although I am afraid... (President: Time)... All of what you put the National Bank in, as per Article 121. The National Bank and the employees of the National Bank shall not be responsible for the damage caused by the performance of their duties, unless it is proved that the damage is caused by intentional or extreme negligence, that means never. Very carefully, ladies and gentlemen, in the same article of this law, you first provided for some new rights of the National Bank, and then you threw out an amendment that has already established the rights of the National Bank just established in this law. I'm done, I'm sorry, thank you for your support, I know you're happy and I think this is a way to reduce your aggression and it's much better to show up here than, say, to marry your wives. (Employees of the SRS, all the time presenting MP Tomislav Nikolic, are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10468	You have no more words. Mr. Buha, are you giving in to Mr. Krasic? Then you're at the end. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10469	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think Article 27. The rules of procedure must apply. I'm not asking that certain speakers, when they come here, swear allegiance, cross, country, you know that there is nothing of it, but I expected that at least some mild warning to be given, because obviously the insinuation that I, in one of my previous discussions, hurt dignity. I didn't hurt anyone's dignity with my opinion, but I just pointed out that even from the worse bill submitted by the government, there could be something even worse, and I proved to see it even worse. Get away from what's worse. If my opinion offends someone's dignity, I don't know. All I know is I didn't swear here when I delivered my opinion and I didn't get a legitimate right to break my oath. He who swears, he can break his oath. The one who hasn't sworn an oath can't be called to an oath. I just made my point, why do I think that's bad? If you wanted that kind of expropriation and nationalization, then transfer it to the NBS Act and the Banks Act. In this law, you don't have a chance to do that. Different percentages of intelligence are different, so different things are understood in different ways. I had no intention of offending dignity. Not even the government's representatives interpreted my discussion as a violation of dignity, but a constructive contribution to improving the bill. If such a bill were to come out, believe me, we in that banking sector would have absolute will and, God forbid, some finance ministers and some quick-moving governors, as the younger one was, go to waste. Only now can we speak openly with the public, what the fatal consequences of politics since 2001 are in the banking work, in the financial part. It's only now that the citizens understand. Three or four years ago, when we explained to them what was going to happen, what was going to happen, no one believed us. Now that they have felt clear to them on their own skin, I am pleading for this solidarity, but not solidarity with the government, but for all citizens to be solid, to understand, today is "The Slave House of Belgrade", tomorrow your firm will be, today n.n., the day after tomorrow will be Vladan Batic, Dragan Todorovic. What do I do to you, that's your strategic position, and that's the kind of government we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10470	Mr. Ostojić has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10471	The president, a respected minister, co-workers and fellow MPs, I think the Assembly's dignity has been violated in one sentence by the honourable MP Vladan Batic -- that an agreement on the sale of NIS will soon be signed. I deeply believe that's not going to happen. I remind you of the LDP initiative, since September, to assess the constitutionality of the agreement we ratified here in the Assembly. We have not yet received a decision from the Constitutional Court, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Madam President. Indeed, the LDP expects you to invest your authority, connections and acquaintances, many times you have come out to meet us and provided something that has to do with Parliament's work, and it concerns the ruling majority. I hope that you will rush the Constitutional Court to make a decision, whether it is a gas-naphtha agreement or an Energy Agreement that we have ratified in accordance with the Constitution, because I am deeply convinced that it is impossible that a third of the Agreement will happen soon, and those two-thirds we will not have in the contract. Maybe Mr. Batic has some information. I don't dispute Mr Batic's good information, but I don't think it's necessary to tell the citizens that the sale of NIS will take place soon, and we won't have a pipeline contract, that we won't have a gas storage contract. I think the Constitutional Court must respond to what we are looking for, which has been standing as an initiative for three months and, indeed, Madam President, I expect you to put your authority in, to get any decision from the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court says that the sale of the state monopoly of the Republic of Serbia is to another state, without guaranteeing that the other two jobs of the Agreement will happen, constitutionally, okay, then that will happen, but I insist that there is no unverified information here from the pay phone that soon follows the sale of NIS, and there is nothing from the pipeline and from the Banatski Dvor. I deeply believe that this pipe that has some kind of valve can't be a substitute for a failed policy in the '90s, that it can't destabilise the region... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'm ending up with that pipe that's in charge now. Indeed, I expect an answer from you, Mrs Dejanovic, will you make an effort to have the Constitutional Court respond urgently to this initiative, because time is running out?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10472	Mr. Batic has a word. I'd just like to say, and this way, I'd like the services to the Constitutional Court to deliver the question of the LDP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10473	I answered the line. I think Mr. Ostojić misread my words. I did not harm Parliament's dignity, because, Mr Ostojic, unfortunately, most in this House voted in favour of ratifying this energy agreement, or for ratifying non-innectious accounts, for ratification of the sale of alaibeg straw. Like you, I voted against it. Also, you will remember that the majority in this parliament voted in favour of the party court's election. We've been taking out a series of arguments, why it's a party court, so maybe you're an idealist, maybe you believe that the Constitutional Court will adopt an initiative that's justified, because neither am I for selling NIS, and that the Russians "come" the pipeline, perhaps, on the watch, on the religion, if they hear from them to build it. It's nowhere in the world. So I don't see what I've hurt Parliament's dignity. I, unfortunately, wish time and events would have denied me, expressed my belief that despite a series of rational arguments, the contract would have been signed, but no one had burned until dawn. Someone's gonna have to take responsibility for that sometime, 'cause I just mentioned a commercial for NIS, like the highlight of nonsense. And that debate the other day and two ministers, one in a wedge, the other in a record, is also the highlight of nonsense. Time will show who's right. I'm just making my own bad guesses. God forbid I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10474	Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mrs. Secretary isn't here, based on an article. In 225 and 226, I'm looking for an explanation that I think is of interest to all the MPs. I'm interested in who's writing, Mr. Secretary of State, these reports on why amendments of MPs should not be accepted. The signature here states that this report was signed by Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic since 14 November 2008, but I do not believe he wrote the explanations. Why do I ask you that? For free reason. As regards amendments to Art. 1, it reads this way – In Article 1st position 1 of the words 'I bring on the proposal of the National Bank of Serbia', they are replaced by the words 'in the obtained opinion of the National Bank of Serbia'. The government has not accepted this amendment. So, let me repeat once again: "In Article 1 of Article 1, the words "I bring on the proposal of the National Bank of Serbia" are replaced by the words "in the obtained opinion of the National Bank of Serbia". That's not acceptable. See what the Government says on the second page – amendments to the Law create a legal basis that the Government can take a timely step to prevent unwanted effects in the domestic banking system. The amendment is not accepted, where it is said that – according to the National Bank, and then the same government, which does not accept the amendment, says – that amendments to the Law create a legal basis that the Government, along with obtaining the opinions of the NBS etc. You'd have to take care of how you write these explanations. They're really funny. The government on one side rejects the amendment, and then only a few sentences later explain its bill by actually adopting a form from the rejected amendment. Madam Minister, I'm glad you're back. I hope you understand the essence of my question. The other thing is, I find it personally funny as a national MP, that the amendment to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act is submitted by a lady from some phantom parliamentary group, and her colleague from that same parliamentary group has just withdrawn the amendment to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. On one side, they are represented as defenders of citizens from the evil and corrupt government, and then give up amendments to the same government's poor legal proposals. I think it's a moral and political madness without precedent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10476	Mr. Buha has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are within the scope of the subject, but I will call, however, not to be warned, in an article. 225 and 226, and I request a notice from the Minister of Finance, the Chairman of the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Director of the Agency, and concerns the level of earnings made by the Director of the Deposit Insurance Agency, which is covered by earnings, means, only wages, i.e. wages, bonuses, fees and any other issues which are in line with the provisions of the Labour Act, to which taxes and contributions are paid. Furthermore, I am interested in the level of compensation of the President and members of the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency in 2007 and 2008. In addition, I ask a question and ask for an answer – who are the privatisation advisers of the Deposit Insurance Agency for bank privatisation and insurance companies? The next question – how much was paid in 2006, 2007 and 11 months 2008 on behalf of the compensation for the services of privatisation advisers and commissions for the sale of the capital of banks and insurance companies? I ask – how much was paid to the privatisation adviser of Citadel from Belgrade for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and the fixed fee...? (President: Mr Buha, you have moved to a session that was not accepted by representatives of your parliamentary group, to parliamentary issues. You're just acting like we have a point of parliamentary question. I'd really like to ask you that, if you need any information, in order for us to work uninterruptedly on this agenda point, it's okay. ) So, I am interested in how much the total funds were paid to the privatisation adviser of Citadel from Belgrade for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and a fixed fee and a commission from the sale of capital by the following banks: "Delta Bank", "National Savings", "Vojvodjanska Banka", "Panonska Banka" and possibly other banks if they were in the process and paid a certain fee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10478	Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10479	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226 to ask a few questions. The first question to the government - who is the representative of Serbia, or "Srbigas" in "Yugorosgas"? Who is the Vice-President of the Jugorosgas Assembly or a member of the Assembly or a member of the Management Board in front of the Serbian State? Can we get the information on the pay he receives? The further question would be – is it the recent director of "Srbiagas" or the new director of "Srbijagas"? Also, the question for the government, I am interested in whether and when what the current director of "Srbigas" announced will happen, the MP, that there are promises from Gazprom, we are not told in any way that Serbia will be able to recover 24%, although it is 25%, that we will be 50:50, means that we will be able to return 24% and that we have 49% in Jugoross by the company "Centrex", so I am interested in when it will happen, under what conditions, and what will be with those 1% that also belongs to the company "Centrex" that is in Jugoros? Thirdly, I am interested in the criteria for joining the NIS negotiating team, and how is it possible that people who have contributed to the Serbian side, i.e. the Serbian state, are damaged, and above all I am referring to Assistant Minister of Energy and Mining, Mr Milutin Svetanovic, who is directly responsible, for what is there evidence, for being missed to buy 25% in Jugorosgas and for Serbia to remain in the 50-50% ownership relationship? I ask – on what criteria is now the special adviser of the Serbian director, i.e. until yesterday the director of "Srbiagas" and by yesterday a member of the Parliament in front of Serbia, Mr. Sasa Ilic, a member of the negotiating team, and whether, instead of him, the current director at Jugorosgas, since there is a reasonable likelihood that the first two will certainly not protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the Oil Agreement with Russia, i.e. selling 51% of NIS to the Russian side. I ask you, Madam President, that within eight days, since these are easily verifiable data, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we get that response from the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10480	Your question will be forwarded to the Government, but I ask you to work on the agenda, not to turn the session into a session that has no agenda – parliamentary issues and that everything you are interested in in in accordance with Article. 225 and 226 will be related to the information necessary for your activities on the agenda at this session. I won't let you, you won't have the right to talk about anything but about it. Mr. Ostojić, please. Milan Lapčević, already a bit of patience, established.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10481	President, Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will not ask questions. For example, 47 days ago, I asked the question -- which individuals with Serbian citizenship are co-owners of the firm, "Centrex", and I haven't received an answer yet, and I'm not asking the question again, I'm waiting, although it's been a lot more than eight days. I am reporting again under Article 104 to tell Mr Batić that, regardless of his belief that this contract will be signed, he is confident when he puts people behind the pay phone can, indeed, think they will sign, even though they know there is an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the agreement. He thus compromises the Assembly and leads astray some people who are convinced that the institutions in this country are functioning, exist, waiting for them to decide. The fact that I, Madam President, ask you to push the Constitutional Court a little bit, it's not an influence on the judiciary, it's not an attack on the judiciary, I don't insist on making a decision like this or a decision like that, I just insist that some decision be made because of the urgency of things. That's why I think it is, Mr. Batic, in some way destroying the Parliament's dignity, when you say it will be sold out, and we are here, not us, but most of these others voted to sell both NIS and build a pipeline and to reconstruct the Banatical Court. It's a strange situation here, Mr. Batic, you boast that you voted against ratification, I appreciate it, and I voted against it. Some others also voted against ratification and now, for example, call on the Russian side not to buy stolen goods, but are ready to vote for a budget with money from the stolen goods. You know, hypocrisy spreads pretty fast to this gym and it's a violation of the Parliament's dignity. There are parties that were against verification, who said it was a little 400 million, but when out of those 400 million don't belong to 210 or to their region, but belongs to 360, then they're willing to accept. And that, in my opinion, is kind of a violation of the Parliament's dignity. That's why I think disputes, like this one, where, for example, a minister in the government of Vojislav Kostunica voted to accept that signature in the election campaign, so he voted for ratification of the Agreement, so now suddenly he realizes that it's just like we talked about, that the agreement does not guarantee... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... So, he's been acting on that "mother didn't beat her son for gambling, but for taking it out." And it's a violation of Parliament's dignity. So I ask you not to say that this will happen, because I am deeply convinced that the state, national, Serbian, whatever, civil interest, will be preserved, because we have institutions, we are not a "banana state".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10482	Replica, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10483	I know I'm giving Mr. Ostojic a chance to report back to the replica. I don't want to continue this controversy. Mr. Ostović, let every MP have the right to his opinion, have the right to his position. I don't change my attitudes on any of these matters, not when, say, they're tycoons. What I was saying, what I voted for, is that I remain consistent, regardless of the consequences, for me personally and for my party. As you believe the Constitutional Court will accept the initiative, I'm a skeptic. I just said I'd like the Constitutional Court to accept the initiative, but I just don't believe it. One more thing to tell you, the Constitutional Court is otherwise not in the justice system. It's not a judicial authority. When you just mentioned your appeal to the President of the Assembly, it is not a interference, you can do it, in the work of the judicial authorities, because the Constitutional Court is outside the justice system. To avoid this controversy, I know we feel the same way. I don't want to talk about some other parties and change their attitudes. I would believe that Serbia is indeed a legal state and a country in which the rule of law is respected if the answer to this question were brought before the day in which the signing of the contract was announced. Oh, my God, I'm being a skeptic myself. I speak for myself, because it seems to me that, unfortunately, it has already been decided, but nothing has ever been finished. As contracts are signed, contracts are terminated. We will see what they are, if that happens, the effects for Serbia and what happens. This isn't the end of the political or some bonding history of some of our relationships. I just know that when it comes to history, Russia has never helped us. She always promised, she never helped. God forbid this would be an exception to that rule. To take advantage of these few seconds, Mr. Ilic had just rightly warned me, since we are constantly talking about VAT, and so am I, asking the government a question -- did he pay, wrongly said VAT at the sale of Delta Bank. The correction is – is the capital gain tax paid? So, I made a lapus, I apologize, and this is how I fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10484	National MP Milan Lapcevic has his word, according to the amendment. We're finally back on the agenda. Mr. Lapchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10485	I thank you, Madam President, for finally starting to do what's on the agenda. The amendment submitted by Ms Tabakovic is, in my opinion, extremely logical, because it speaks of the deposit insurance agency asking the National Bank for an opinion, not that the National Bank has an initiative and that it proposes where to intervene and what actions will be purchased from those banks that are not liquid. All of this, including the Deposit Insurance Act, is intended to prevent further adverse consequences from the economic crisis or to pre-war some new ones, i.e. to prevent major damages from those already incurred. All these measures can give some effect, and what are the effects of these measures we can also measure and talk about them through both numbers and examples. So, it is obvious that the global economic crisis will also affect Serbia, we are talking for less than two and a half months about raising the amount of deposits as soon as possible and bringing in comprehensive measures to prevent the global economic crisis in Serbia, and the effects are as follows: nearly a billion euros have been withdrawn from business banks by Serbian citizens, despite November and the extended month -- December, months of savings, the savings have not increased, but decreased by a whole billion euros. You'll admit, for a small country like this and for such a small paying power of citizens, a billion euros is a huge sum of money. On the other hand, nearly a billion euros were spent from the country's foreign reserves to defend the dinar course. The effect can also be clearly seen, today the euro is 88 dinars, it has been 90 and every day, unfortunately for many, and unfortunately for pensioners and the poorest, it continues to grow. This year's budget is at a deficit of 500m euros, the proposed budget for next year will be 550m euros. So it is clear that the effects of the crisis are also passed on to Serbia. In the last two months, several thousand people have lost their jobs. All serious countries, above all, think of Western European countries, have adopted a package of measures that are necessarily envisaged, above all, in addition to those declarative, or marketing measures, raising secured deposits, providing mandatory support for businesses, because in this way only realistically can prevent major damages that can affect the country, and this support is seen at lower interest rates, in tax cuts, in subsidies, in the release of certain taxis at a certain time, etc. As translated into money, the United States will invest $700 billion to save its banks and support the economy, China announced about $580 billion, Russia over 220 billion, Britain and Germany over 200 billion, etc. Of those concrete economic measures, for example, the UK will cut certain taxes totalling 35 billion euros, Italy will invest 80 billion euros in support of small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, to the private sector that is most vulnerable and most affected by this crisis. Some countries will abolish certain taxes and taxes for two years, primarily according to small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to overcome the effects of the crisis. What's going on in Serbia? It looks like everything's wrong with us. The national bank's reference interest rate has increased in the last two months from 15.75 to 17.75%. I'll remind you, at the beginning of the year, that interest rate was 11%. The result of such an increase in the reference interest rate is the increase in interest on loans placed by commercial banks in the economy. I was talking this morning about a case where a small businessman who employs a dozen people had to take a loan to pay 30% of the interest and made sure that the loan was tied to the euro. Really, I don't know what a man can do to earn that kind of money to keep him from paying his employees, not to go bankrupt, and to spend 30% more on the bank. That's too much. This is an indirect result of the state's instimulative measures, if the state had a stimulating effect on the banking sector, the interest would probably be less, and then the economy could take cheaper loans and be more competitive on the market. The proposed budget does not show that more money is being allocated to help the economy. Subsidies have been reduced, especially for agriculture which, you will all agree, is probably a basic business branch in Serbia. It's an announcement of tax cuts on savings, and that's more of a marketing measure than it could have any major effect. That law is still not on the Assembly agenda. The crisis is already ongoing in Serbia for nearly three months. There is no reduction in VAT and some other tax on the economy, even an increase in VAT is announced to 19%. If that's what's going to happen, I need to be correct, you still don't know, but the media is pushing it to think about increasing VAT. On top of that, what I also mentioned this morning, a country that mainly holds the largest share of the money being paid in this country does not pay off its obligations to those doing certain jobs for various budget users, for ministries, for agencies, administrations, etc., while asking to pay VAT in advance. In order for a taxpayer, one businessman to collect what he was doing for the state, he has to hand over all the papers, the completed situation, and book the NIP Ministry, say, to pay the VAT immediately afterwards on what he has invoiced, and the state to what the "I come to you" said, as my LDP colleagues said. He'll be paid by the state in two, three, who knows how many months. For 15-20 days, it has been said in the Assembly that the Treasury is empty and that no payments are made to those who have set out their accounts for doing business or services. The case, also, which I mentioned this morning, that one entrepreneur had committed his completed 20 million dinar situation in September until today's day, and had yet to pay the VAT on that 20 million, almost four million dinars, on September. The man in charge, he had to take the loan, his account was blocked, and he can't work at all. This is a picturesque example of how the state helps its economy. At the end of all these measures, which the state unfortunately does not take to help, but to help the economy, instead of "relenting," as the people would say, "dizgini", the state sends taxpayers to oust debts, first of all, to the small and medium-sized businesses and to write them through taxpayers inappropriate penalties to fill the Treasury and the budget. Finally, as cake cream, along with all the state charges as the latest imposition, since the New Year's Eve will be in transfer meaning and simple application of the SAA, which can only mean that such a burdened economy with this kind of interest on loans must produce services or products that are much more expensive than foreign ones, and then when we lift customs duties on various import goods, then we have a complete breakdown of the Serbian economy. So this is the result of all the measures that the state has not taken or is slowly taking to prevent the effects of the global economic crisis that will hit and affect Serbia. The Serbian economy has just begun to raise its head, following such measures and scenarios, a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises will go bankrupt, they will have to fire, because they are too long and cannot be competitive, so they will have to fire the workers they have hired. Instead of 200,000 new jobs, we're going to get tens of thousands of people who are going to lose their jobs, who are now working in the real sector. Business, higher wages, new jobs -- it was a slogan that had been spinning in the election campaign for days, and was personally spoken by DS President Boris Tadic, the president of the state in the DS video. Obviously, there's nothing from either one or the other. So, another scam in the series, about free action, about the socially responsible government, raising pensions, the white Schengen, the biggest investment in the Fiat, and what else I'm promised not to say. Gentlemen, when it's a crisis and it's hard for the state, the people are told, the belt has to be tightened, and then the government has to "relieves" the discs, reduce the interest and encourage the economy, because that's the only way the crisis can get over it. The state must reduce its expenditure, above all, in the ministries, in the government, in various agencies and administrations, and encourage economic and agriculture and reduce interest, i.e. by helping them through state investments and subsidies, the real sector, the economy will work more and employ more people and thus help the economic crisis overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10486	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Momir Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when this global economic crisis started, when economic experts around the world began to worry, the right to tell you, I was a little worried, although I don't understand myself so much in the economy, because I know it's a system of merged courts, that this crisis will come to our premises today or tomorrow, and I know that when the breeze blows in North America, it turns into a typhoon in South America. But some experts came out, those who came in 2000, who were promoted here as top experts who had all the knowledge in the white world picked it up and came here to place it, remember, after "the bulldozer of the revolution," so they put me down a little bit, he says, won't hook us up. Of course not, they said, but after I realized, we don't have anything like that, they've destroyed the entire economy in these eight years, so they can't even fail anything special to us, or it's going to be that when this world economy fails, the world economy, then they're going to come to us to buy our products or to work as hired workers. After that, there comes the "sabotical pleum" where the president of the state, because I do not consider Boris Tadic president of the DS, or I do not consider his message with "sabotic prey" to be sent only to the Democrats but to all citizens of Serbia – citizens, save jobs! So whoever still has a job has to keep it by all means, allowed and disallowed. In these eight years, however, they have left some five-six hundred thousand workers without a job, the economy is completely dead, it's still here and there to get rid of something, but the buttocks have to be preserved. Then comes another tide, another high-ranking official of this ruling coalition, recently at the Sava Center, which I didn't understand, because if it's what he said, if it's what I understood, he decided to put a lock on his party. I remind you, last night or night before (when it was) his statement – all those who are devious of money flying from the party! I can count on the fingers of one hand from this encrypted party how long it'll be left that I'm not sure that the bad guys are money, everything else, to remind you, the one we talked about here for a week, director of the G17 Airport in Belgrade, to remind you of the Minister of Health... And he's very sloppy, Mr. Krasic, when he's one of his laws I have a bunch of documentation to prove both his laziness and the destruction of health care at all. There's no one in that encrypted company who's not in the already discovered affair or in the one that needs to be discovered. After all, they're all after the leader. Let me remind you, his first appearance after the 'Buldozer Revolution' - socks on his head, rifle in his hands, and then in the National Bank, there are no more dozens of pictures in the National Bank when he gave up. Let me remind you, too, now that the director of the Department of Teachers and Educations, Mr. Albianić, whom we greatly respected here when he was, hired his entire school, more cleaning girls and what's ringing there to translate, the whole school where he used to work and half of Požega has moved to the Department of Teachers and Teachers. Probably they, as top experts, showed up to him, seemed to him and brought them in to advance the Department of Teachers and Teachers. It's the same office that he printed and threw away one textbook, and then he printed another, but it doesn't matter that way. Let's see who got us here. Who gave consent to the work of these banks for which the Agency is now seeking additional authority for itself? You remember, ladies and gentlemen, that Serbia had four very high-quality and very capable banks, banks that funded and credited the entire Serbian economy. However, the good part of the Serbian economy was due to the credit and was, I say, part of the stock was owned by banks, in charge of the four banks. It was the simplest thing to sell the entire economy – kill the one to whom the economy owes. You destroyed four banks that were pillars of the Serbian economy, all the way up to that point, while I remind you, "Beobank" or "Belgrade Bank", "Beobank" you couldn't even destroy, because after the bankruptcy, now if the funds that were frozen in her account were released, she could operate and she would be much better than all these import banks. He asked Mr Batic where the deposit is located, where the foreign currency of the Republic of Serbia is. They are no longer at the Euroaxis bank, they are not in those quantities, and I am saying that the Euroaxis bank is owned by Hamovic, Lazarevic, Dinkic and others. There was $50 million there, so it was initial capital to form the National Savings Bank, so we all thought, here, at least one national bank will be formed, we all thought it was a state bank, and then it turns out that the only shareholders are the shareholders of the Euroaxis bank. Mr. Batic, you're not here, but you will hear for sure, the state of Serbia cannot, regardless of which the owners are mostly Serbs, in the Euroaxis bank. The other day, the financial and criminal police of Russia entered. Russia makes sure that crime doesn't spread in its space, but as soon as it appears, they cut it in its root. Since the Euroaxis Bank is concerned, another part of the funds is there, it remains in Germany, in some other banks across Europe, but at any moment they are willing to withdraw that money when they are given the opportunity to build some national savings. After all, this hyper-production of some banks in Serbia, in my Batajnica there are eight, in Panchev we counted 23 or 24 banks, all different and all banks to the bank, once they were kevabjits, burgers and others, is that right, Mr. Milivojevic, when you failed in that business in Kruševec, and after that, the banks started. Sometimes I wonder how these banks live, what do they live on? When you look at the ad page in the paper and you see that the banks sell apartments, then things are completely clear to you, you want to raise five-six thousand euros in credit, and they all boasted that by the system you just walk in, you come out, and almost, sorry, almost, take five-six thousand euros in credit to buy a used car, a mortgage -- apartment, you don't return one war, you go flat on a date, you don't have a car, you don't even have an apartment anymore. They remind me of the time of the development of those pyramid banks, when once Mr. Kostic from Paracin, right, Mr. Krasic, the main commercial on TV was, "I'll pay you back when I turn it around." By the way, let me ask you something else - when will the audit of the operations of the Deposit and Rehabilitation Agency be done, etc? Has that audit been done? Let's see how it's done, let's say, selling the assets of the bankruptcy banks. The AIK Bank building in King Alexander 70's Boulevard has about 3 and a half thousand square meters and has been sold for 750 thousand euros. That comes out about 480-500 euros per square metre. It doesn't matter what the price is if it matters who you sell it to. Not to remind you of those three sugars for nine euros and this was spent by Mr. Miki Kostic, he gave 10 euros and said - change is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after the citizens of Serbia stumbled on the pyramidal banks, as they no longer trusted anyone, as soon as this crisis began to feel, no matter what they didn't feel, again to remind the citizens of Serbia, when they came to power, they said – if you give us power we will all live better, the people gave them power and they all live better, and since the living people are now a question for the people, so the people have withdrawn over a billion euros. In defence of the dinar course, about 300m euros in government, in the extreme line of national couples, it went away, given by that governor Jelasic; he came to Serbia, became a vice governor today, and became a Serbian citizen tomorrow. He's telling citizens today, you know, he's not going to feel so much of that crisis, and what about that villa of his, up there, that he paid about 300,000 euros, and the next day some were offering him a million and two hundred, one million and four hundred thousand, of course, he didn't want to sell. I guess that's what tricked you into choosing him, then he was still preparing to be governor. A very capable merchant, a villa of one million and a half euros, bought for 300,000 euros and then placed it there. Only a place in this building of JIK Bank in King Alexander's Boulevard is worth as much as the entire property of the bank has been sold. That's why I submitted the amendment, believing that the state of Serbia has enough instruments to try against those banks that are causing damage, these banks that have been brought here and presented as international banks, try using Raiffeisen's bank card to buy something in Germany, will look at you white, as if you've fallen from Mars, these cards only apply here, I thought that when you've brought them in, you've provided enough instruments and enough legal means in case such banks violate financial stability that you can stop them. At the end of the line, and to shut them down, as you opened them, so you shut them down. The Serbian government responded to me, signed by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Police Minister. All three of them signed. He says: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons that in exceptional circumstances it wants to provide a legal instrument to prevent the activities of financial entities that may result in a breach of the stability of the overall financial system and the emergence of collapse throughout the financial system. The proposed changes give the government the opportunity to intervene on the financial market in a given way, which implies a rapid response in cases where the bank is jeopardising financial stability in the market by its business." Let's see what the state of Serbia, or the National Bank of Serbia, will do when it comes across one of these banks, and they have long gone to destroy the country's financial stability. He says, "To buy on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business." Instead of locking them up and driving them to court, instead of going to international court, you will buy their actions and thus repay them the capital that they may have invested. They only invested founding capital, and after that, everything they acquired was acquired in this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, time doesn't allow me anymore, otherwise I've had a lot to say about this, but I believe, Madam Minister, if you would pass out these banks a little bit, others would behave in accordance with financial policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10488	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment, adding a new Article 1a after Article 1. He submitted to the Finance Committee. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the bill. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Buha wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. In Article 2 of the word "sequential", I suggested that they be replaced by the words "eighth day". It's about the entry into force of this law. In response to this amendment, the Government points out that the amendment ''is not accepted for the reason that the proposed amendments foresee this law to take effect on the next day of publication, and for the purpose of the need to take effective and timely measures aimed at the stability of the banking and financial system, under the conditions of the present financial market crisis. In fact, this law is part of a set of measures concerning amendments to the laws governing deposit insurance and the law governing bank bankruptcy and liquidation, and their entry into force on the same day is necessary. ''For the sake of the public, we must point out that the Constitution is being violated because of the provision of Article 196. The constitution clearly states when the law and other general acts enter into force. Article 196(4) states: "Laws and other general acts shall enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, as set out in their adoption. "The legislator made an effort to explain that. Let's hear about the reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure. The legislator says: "The reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, according to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stems from the examination of current problems on the financial market and the need for adequate regulation of the conditions and methods of operation of all market participants, as well as the provision of adequate response to regulatory bodies. This law, in line with EU directives, puts this area in a more stable, more consistent regulatory frameworks that will form part of a set of measures that mitigate the consequences of the financial market crisis." The public of Serbia must know how we were and when we received this bill, when he followed. He came 24 hours after the budget rebalance was adopted. The budget rebalancing in the rationale says the objectives of the government's macroeconomic policy in 2008, means, the current objectives of macroeconomic policy – macroeconomic stability, dynamic economic growth and growth in investment activities, the growth of employees and standards of life, the accelerated process of stabilisation and accession to the EU, the accelerated implementation of economic reforms and more uniform regional development. Just 24 hours after that, suddenly the crisis, suddenly the bomb, suddenly all the evil of this world has gone down and we're getting this set of laws. This is a political game, but also an economic game by the government. If that's really how you wrote in the draft budget, what do you need this set of laws for? He doesn't, basically. So this argument you gave on this amendment doesn't stand, if you were consistent with this, or you were inconsistencies with this other one. What is important to point out is that only when the MPs of the SRS have indicated that you have not strictly implemented all the provisions of the laws relating to the deposit insurance system, you are only in one law, and this is the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, you have said to which entities are covered by deposit insurance, where, in addition to natural persons, you have included entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. In this bill of law, you didn't do it. Only natural persons remained, so the intervention of the Finance Committee was a change that was accepted by the government. Representatives of the SRS also pointed to the huge problems created by this law, the parent law that was passed in 2005, which concerns the Agency's competence. You've given jurisdiction that doesn't belong to this agency. There's nothing in the world like this except for us. Why? Just to get through the Agency all the things you can't get through to the public. Through this agency, you can do anything secretly. I would ask, here, there's a minister and secretary to come out and say where you have a situation where one agency has this kind of authority? Here is Article 3(1) – he performs the tasks of compulsory deposit insurance, and in paragraph 2, that the Agency performs the function of a bankruptcy liquidator in banks and insurance companies. When the law was passed in 2005 we openly pointed out that the Agency has no information from which it can monitor the bank, and that data has the National Bank. Why are these jobs entrusted to the Agency? She doesn't know anything, she doesn't have any data, she doesn't have any facts on which she could track that bank, an insurance house that comes into crisis, and take certain measures and activities. Furthermore, it participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, organises and conducts operations for the sale of shares of these banks, organises and conducts activities for the privatisation of social, i.e. state capital in insurance companies and performs other tasks established by law. We have a Privatisation Agency. Why has it been allowed, why has it been installed, incorporated into this law that this agency performs these tasks when, above all, there is no data, no fact, no valid material in this area and can adequately manage it? We've got a National Bank, we've got a Privatisation Agency that's going to do it anyway, and not to mention the Agency's personnel structure, it's a huge deal, and she can't do it. Furthermore, we have ordered Article 9. Article 9. The law, there goes colleague Krasic and he's surprised, but I'll tell you what's really going on. It is a matter of certain business that used to be the affairs of the Agency for the Rehabilitation, Banks and Liquidation, which the Agency carried out by around 2000 and 2001, and after that these resolution operations were not carried out. The draft law of 2005 prescribed these provisions. Why enter placements, control these placements, spend state resources for these purposes, conduct certain procedures and monitor and analyse etc.? It's not the Agency's task. This is overwritten. I told you about this pay phone -- wipe it, it's overwritten, don't do it! Tell me, did you invest any money in this business? No, you're not. You're not gonna do that. On the other hand, by proposing this law, you're going to buy action. Why are you getting into capital? Why do you need capital - banks that break the regulation violate financial discipline and you will now enter their capital? You have the National Bank, it controls and controls and inspection bodies of the National Bank that will punish any bank that violates financial stability, conduct a certain procedure and prohibit it. I read the National Bank analysis for 2007, you had 21 control of the banking system, 20 banks you controlled. There's no control there. How are you going to control financial stability, financial discipline, if you don't go to banks? You're getting reports, but that's not enough. Banks must be controlled by inspections that exist in the National Bank. The finance ministry also needs to do and get that control. You can't do this legally. It's financially illogical for you to buy, to enter the capital of banks, and what banks? Why waste resources and what resources? Why invest in the capital of some banks, buy shares from the budget? To prevent financial indiscipline, a breach of financial stability? Who does that? Tell me an example of who's doing this, when we have a central monetary institution dealing with control and surveillance. In Article 16. The Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, I must warn you that Article 16 is contrary to the Law on conflict of interest, it is envisaged, it is the Management Board of the Agency, says – The Management Board of the Agency has seven members, including the President. Members of the Management Board shall be appointed and dismissed by the Government. The members of the Management Board as they perform are: the finance minister, the minister in charge of business affairs and vice-government of the National Bank of Serbia in charge of bank control tasks. Other members of the Management Board shall be appointed and resolved by the Government: the President and one member, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and one member on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia and one member on a proposal from the representative association of banks. Look, this is the professional body and the work done by this board of directors are compatible with the affairs of the Ministry of Finance, the Agency itself and the National Bank. If they're compatible, they can't perform as surveillance in two cases. If, on the one hand, I follow and analyze the financial situation, and on the other hand I am the executive body of the Ministry of Finance, etc. Then I have to act one way, and another way. This must be a conflict of interest and make sure this provision changes. In Article 24 of the same Law, the Agency reports at least once a year on its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government, the National Bank of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance Affairs. I've been here four years, I haven't seen any reports, no information from the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. I'm not sure the Assembly Financial Committee has received this report, too. It'd be good for the control, for the public. In the provisions of this law, you have installed provisions that you should not have installed. You can't file a report. This is self-will. The Ministry of Finance, you have to endure, it says here, to the Assembly. We as MPs didn't get it. I've been here four years, I haven't received a single report. Someone made an appointment here. It says clearly here, the provision of article 24 says - National Assembly. Time's up, we're gonna make another finding. In total, the finance ministry, the National Bank of Serbia, the Deposit Insurance Agency did not look at the problem enough. The laws don't work. The laws aren't complete. Make sure you revise them, innovate them, because this is not how they will live in practice, and neither the state nor the people will benefit at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10490	Thank you. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want the final word? Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10491	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I was hoping today that we would conclude the discussion of the three laws in front of you – the Deposit Insurance Act, the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and social security law and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, because they together represent a package. Basically, the Deposit Insurance Act is the protection of small savings, small depositors, not everyone, not big ones, but small ones. It was the original purpose of this law, not just here, but everywhere. The financial crisis has affected the fundamental purpose of this law to some extent, but that is the only way to understand the Constitution. This law, by its essence, is a law designed to protect small savings. The current law, which changes, had several basic features, that this guaranteed amount of up to 3,000 euros per deposit, according to one bank, would be paid off when the bankruptcy case took place and that the law practically covered only the population, i.e. the household sector. It could also be said, if we again view these laws as a package, that they are protected or that unchanged laws would be protected depositors of only those banks in which the state is a shareholder. All of this together influenced the attempt to amend this law and the government's proposals were: to increase the limit of the secured deposit from 3,000 to 50,000, to expand the scope, but to again be on the small, the population, but also small and medium-sized legal persons. Decisions relating to payment have been improved, from the moment the conditions for the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings were met, instead of the date of the court's decision on the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings. So the procedure is faster. Also, the position of bank depositors in bankruptcy and banks in liquidation has been leveled. Paying off depositors is a priority, before paying off other creditors. And the laws apply to the entire banking system. What's most often said from this pay phone is that the government is late, that the government has no programme and that this is just some step that opposition representatives have pointed out much, much, much earlier and that this law has no real basis. Are we too late and what does the government's active role mean? I would remind you that the crisis began in the summer of 2007, known as the mortgage market crisis of the United States. My question to you is – did all European countries respond, and how long did it take for them to react to EU and Europe as a whole? What was the root cause of this crisis? Insufficient capital adequacy of the banking sector. And as the problem arose in Europe, a year later, Europe did not react. Europe reacted only in early October, or September, when a similar problem arose in Europe because of financial ties between Europe and America, because the stock exchanges are connected, and the real sector in Europe is linked to the stock exchange. What does it mean that other countries' governments reacted, and this government didn't? I would remind you, and it is easy to verify, that in other countries, when someone publishes something, if it is a representative of the government, when the prime minister issues a statement or the government issues a statement, or it is a joint statement by the Ministry of Finance and the NBS, that it is something that you can interpret as a serious intention of the government and that it is considered an action. (The Belief of Radeta, from the site: Jelasic says it is not so. (President: Mrs Radeta, please don't disturb the minister. ) The Prime Minister published this on 21 October. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place:... A fairy tale story. Whether fairy tales are or not, I'm not saying this because of you, because a lot of the questions you've asked me are, in fact, you know the answer. I'm saying this for the public. The country's prime minister said on 21 October 2008 what the government's intention was. This is an action, and the adoption of the government's decision, or the law in Parliament, is something else. What have the governments of other countries decided to do at the moment of the financial crisis? Basically, only three types of measures exist: 1) The Deposit Insurance Act, 2) the State guarantee for the new borrowing of the banking sector and 3) liked it some or not, but it exists almost in all countries, although this reluctant country is used by the state to support the banking sector that has different forms, but they are probably the most recognizable forms, cash injections, and that is recapitalisation, i.e. covering bond losses. This exists mainly in all European countries. Nothing this country does is different from what others have done. Did the financial crisis actually happen to us when we were getting signals that we should be passing a package like this? I would say no, because at that point, the banking sector of Serbia was very well-capitalised. The standard is 8% of the capital ratio. According to our law, it's 12%. The actual level of adequateness is also 25% at this point. We didn't have that problem at all, and at that point, as we are now, the crisis will feel, but this crisis was the result of a crisis of trust. On the very news that some banks whose names are associated with the names of the financial sector or banks here, the citizens of this country have begun to withdraw their deposit. There was no reduced capital inflow due to the financial crisis, but the citizens of this country, due to poor memory, because they had already lost their savings several times, began, so we initiated the crisis ourselves. Luckily, it's stopped. Does this government have a program? I would remind you that she has a program, you can get along or not, but somebody tell me from the opposition – what should be the real government program? I'm saying -- that's this package of laws, that's the first thing, where the capital injection is going to happen as an exception, not as a rule, and given the data on business banks, it won't be. Therefore, it is a measure that is completely legitimate and cannot be criticised, or not much, but "only" as the last line of defense. Otherwise, I've already said that once, since it seems to me that they're asking me the same questions over and over again, it wouldn't be bad for me to repeat that there's always some order of moves and that the first one to react to the NBS and that it's the first one to do it, firstly, preventively, with its control function, secondly, liquidity loans that are in the NBS daily menu, and you can ask yourself if there are banks that are taking credits for liquidity. No, I don't. Then there's no need to worry that the state is now going to give the injections capital to banks that don't need liquidity. The following measures are measures of the state and this is this package of laws that we are trying to pass and after that tax package of laws. I would like to remind you that the Law on temporary exemption for taxation of income tax has arrived in this assembly. What's this about? Illicited temporary and income tax on capital, practically from foreign exchange savings in 2009, as well as the capital income tax resulting from the transfer of securities from the value. This is the first law and will practically be the support of the Budget Law. Also, the property tax changes in the part where the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, the records of the valuation and the share in the legal person is abolished. So, NBS with its package of measures, the state with these laws plus tax laws. Maybe someone else knows another measure, I, believe me, I don't know. Someone says it is not realistic to secure a deposit at 50,000 euros, that the state has no coverage for it, and then says that they have calculated correctly and that for 20,000 euros, the state has coverage. I seem to have answered that question, but here's more for the public than for you, because I assume you all know that answer. Anyone who understands the functioning of social funds is clear to him. There is no state, no budget, no finance minister who can guarantee everyone everything. This system is being paid off by everyone, so that only some who find themselves in trouble will be compensated, conditionally speaking, for the damage. And for that, it doesn't have to guarantee the budget. There's a fund. So you assume and say that there is no and there is really no fund that is equal to foreign savings, but much more than this law is again the famous restrictive, so many times criticised, measure of a high mandatory reserve on foreign currency savings. It's 40%, which means you have 40% savings at the same time, it's on the central bank account, plus you have a fund. Don't forget that business banks here really do business with profits and that profit is not small. He's over 35 billion dinars in the first 10 months. Why worry that the state will have to intervene with capital if banks don't have problems? That's a little absurd. We talk all the time - how the state will do it. Actually, it turns out there are no too many problems. That doesn't mean there won't be any. I wish they weren't here. I'm talking about Serbia. Is the role of the National Bank even in bank control? There is a Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Law on Banks, which gives certain powers to the central bank to control the banking sector. There are two ways -- either you have a special agency that controls the functioning of the banking sector or that's what the NBS does. The NBS monitors daily, and that's her preemptive role, and, ma'am, I've listened to you and I haven't interrupted you for a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10492	Mrs. Radeta, please, I'll give you a warning if you continue to communicate with Mrs. Minister. Please don't distract her while she's talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10493	I have to remind myself that these are all domestic banks, that our people are working in domestic banks, and that, let's say, approximately all the loans that these domestic banks have, were in our domestic hands or in the hands of foreign owners, 50% of the loans are granted to the population, 50% of the economy. Therefore, it is very important that we have timely information about each individual bank. I've heard a very interesting opinion, that we have the Deposit Insurance Act, that the residents are protected, that we shouldn't protect the banks that are in foreign hands. It should be recalled that these banks have granted loans to legal persons. That's easily verifiable. So 50% of all plasmas went into business. The interest rates high, low, criticized, etc., and I'm going to say something about that, but they're in that economy. The NBS is proposing, but it's the government that can accept or reject the proposal. Therefore, it is not the National Bank that will decide for itself, and in particular it is not the Agency, which essentially only works on behalf and on behalf of the State. Why haven't we done this before? Believe me, for personal and family reasons, I would have had a lot of reasons to praise the banking sector before 2000, but then I was with an uncle who was the head of a bank joking and saying it wasn't really a bank. When you come to the bank, so you ask for your money, dinarly, so you can't get your money unless someone else pays a bill. If you want to raise your savings, you can't raise your savings. If you want to get a loan, you can't even get an astronomical interest rate. It's a loss of foreign savings. The dinary savings are unscathed. The Serbian Rebirth Loan was lost. I mean, it's hard to expect, and that's what I really feel like, that you're going to reinvest your money in that bank where you couldn't get that money out. It's my personal opinion, but I believe it's also yours. I have been asked a lot of parliamentary questions and I often know that you know the answer yourself, but many of the questions that MPs have asked, for example – the income of the state, the expenditure of the state, foreign reserves. These are all the things you can find on the NBS website, or the Ministry of Finance. If anyone's interested in income, expected revenues in December, the state, then I can say that my last estimate, based on the first two weeks, is 52 billion dinars. So, finally with November, all state data, consolidated state, the budgets of the Republic of Serbia are available on the NBS site and the Ministry of Finance. As for interest rate and rate policy, now there were more questions and more observations, there are, let me tell you, basically two pure forms of exchange rate. Either you have a fixed or you have a flexible one. And there's something you're trying to do in between. If you have fixed and you want fixed, then don't criticize the loss of foreign reserve. The flexible exchange rate isn't exactly tempting in times of crisis, but on the other hand it saves foreign exchange reserves. Foreign exchange reserves are currently nine and a half billion euros. When you're fighting inflation, one of the instruments that's very efficient, secondly, it's actually written in the basics of the macro-economy that learns from the first year of the Faculty of Economics. So the most effective anti-high inflation asset is the high interest rate. She doesn't like everyone, but someone likes her. So the high interest rate corresponds to those who save, and it doesn't match those who borrow. Is it true that no country has raised a reference rate under financial crisis conditions? That's not true, and I know this too, you know, but it's for the public. There are two groups of countries, one group of countries that have no payment-silence problems and another that has. We're in that other group of countries. Where you don't have big pay-Bilance problems, all the countries really bring down the interest rate. This is not disputed, but in that other group of countries where we and the Romanians and the Baltic countries and the Turks and Brazil, etc., in that group of countries, and this can be checked, countries are raising interest rates. Why? Because the effects of the depression tend to endanger the stability of inflation, and it does not help it so much, let's say the current decline in the price of oil derivatives or energy in the world market. That's why you use that interest rate. You've often mocked a group that should follow the financial crisis, but that group has really worked, I can say the names of those members, if that's what you're interested in. The fact is that this group, in particular, works for the public to say that in this group, I do not like to go from myself, is located Mr. Ilic, Mr. Radovan Jelasic, Mr. Branko Hinic, who is the director of the NBS Research Sector, Mr. Janko Guzian, who is the State Secretary and I. So, this group, not always in the same composition, has also spoken to representatives of the economy, the financial sector, the banks and constantly talking. As a result, so to speak, co-operation between the government, although co-operation and talks are never enough, it is also a proposal which is basically a 2009 budget. So, there's one solution that needs to be brought into the form of an operative, which is that regardless of the policy of the NBS interest rates, which is what it is and it's focused primarily on the inflation rate, but with the drop in inflation rate, of course it's going to drop those interest rates, the state and the NBS are right and they're signing a memorandum that will mean -- that the loans that the state guarantees to banks that approve interest rates are going to be subsidized. That would be the answer. So we're gonna keep high interest rates or relatively high because the interest rate just has to be higher than the inflation rate, I agree, it's all a matter of measures. As for the various issues raised in the various agencies, public enterprises, etc., especially in the boards of directors, I am now, having recently become a member, and Mr Ilic has since June 2007, learned that a member of the Management Board of the Agency has earned a salary of 31 thousand dinars, and President 34 thousand, that three members have been changed, that they are members of function. So, the moment I'm not the finance minister, the one who replaces me will become an automatism. So that's the profit. Otherwise, now within the Ministry of Finance to record all those agencies, as I said, we know about public enterprises, where the state is a shareholder, has its stake, and pay policy is recorded, and we already have a proposal for a regulation for public enterprises, meaning that all of this is regulated at the state level as a whole. If there's anything else I left out, and I believe I did, tomorrow's the new day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-15-0.u10494	Dear Minister, I thank you for the extremely correct explanations. I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We continue to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with the really most serious request that we be more aware of the time limits in which we are and our obligations to finish this session, to adopt a budget and a set of financial laws that enables Serbian citizens to live in the coming year in accordance with the law. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for today's session to be attended by Mr. SlobodanIlic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Živana Bogotincevic, adviser to the finance minister, (Ilic's greeting), Mrs. Jasmina Benmansur, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Ljerka Ecimovic, Head of the Association Registration Department. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure: Jorgovanka Tabaković, Veroljub Arsic, Milorad Buh, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Lidija Dimitrijevic and Dejan Mirović, as well as the notice of MP Veroljub Arsic to withdraw the amendment that he submitted on 12 November 2008 to Article 2. It's a bill of law. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. But before that, Mr Markicevic answered, advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have a word.
