ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8822	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have more than one third of the MPs and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session to be attended by Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr Jovan Ćosic, head of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – I remind you that at yesterday's session, we have terminated our work during the search under the amendment of MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 3. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8823	This amendment by Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 3 is a great reason to apologize not only for that Article 3 but for the whole law, because it is a member of the 3rd essence of the whole idea of this law. So, when we made a strategy of the judiciary in the previous, or earlier, governmental council, many of the things that we wrote there and that remained behind us are practically like certain institutes that have been introduced into this package of laws that we've been discussing all these days. Thus new terms have been introduced in the law governing courts and in the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors: basic, higher courts, appeals courts, etc. It was all an idea promoted by the Democratic Party of Serbia. What is probably interesting to the representatives of the government or the ruling majority, is that in the amendments that we have submitted, especially to this law on the seats and areas of the courts, we have proposed to return the old terms: the municipal court, the district court, etc. That doesn't mean we gave up on our idea. In fact, we believe that what was written in the strategy, what was prepared in these bill proposals and in earlier government councils should be the direction of movement when it comes to the development of justice and change in Serbia's judicial system, but the problem is that the competent ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia, bearing such laws, are prepared, made, in fact, a caricature surrogate of what we dreamed we had. It doesn't have everything, my people, anything to do with it. When it comes to this law on seats and areas of courts, you will see that the main problem of this law is the absence of every criterion when it comes to proposing the seat and area of courts and prosecutors. For example, there is a district in Serbia that has 12 municipalities, such as the South Baba County; only one basic court is provided for that district. You have, say, a Borski district that has four municipalities and has two basic courts. We only have to think about whether the reason is because Vojvodina is flat, which is easy to reach from one place to another, from one municipality to another, so it is not so much a problem to have only one court, and perhaps the Borski District is hilly, harder to walk, with a smaller network of roads, so it might be good to have four municipalities of two basic courts. But that argument is off, for the simple reason that we know that so-called. Court departments. What are those courts for? It serves, in fact, to replace areas and seats of so far's courts and to sort of compensate for the difference in the number of basics, i.e. municipal courts between this and the previous law, simply because it would not restrict citizens' right to something called access to justice. The problem is, with this concept, as the law is written, there's no logical connection between what we see here and what's happening on the ground. I'll give you more examples: the main court in the area of Southbay County covers a territory that has a lot more inhabitants than when it comes to the territory of the Borski District, with two basic courts. Disproportion is obvious. One of the reasons why individual courts for certain areas are abolished is that corruption is higher in smaller areas. What does that mean – a higher degree of corruption in smaller areas? So we're saying that in a smaller environment, like the Southbay County, where we've taught various courts and left only one basic court for 12 municipalities, a large degree of corruption, so the problem will be solved by bringing it all down to one single basic court. There is likely to be a large degree of corruption in Belgrade, but incomparably less than in the South Baba County. What kind of argument is that? We've never heard of a single healthy argument so far, which is why a network of courts like this should be made. Then, perhaps, was the basis for such an arrangement of the courts a different inflow of the case? You know, if a municipal court has a little work to do, it has a relatively small inflow of cases, a small number of solved cases, then it may be natural and rational to consider removing the court's seat, possibly considering leaving a court department, a basic court with another seat, because it's a small number of cases and a small number of solved cases in the course of the year. However, in some courts there are over 30,000 cases a year and a large number of resolved cases, as is the case with Gornji Milanovac. Where's the basic court there? Should the criterion be even regional development? Because, if we consider equal regional development, all institutions of the system, including the judiciary, should participate in the idea of even regional development. This is, in fact, the biggest damage to this law, because the issue of access to justice through courts departments or through courts' seats is a question of debate and we can discuss it by noon, but when it comes to the message being sent to potential investors for certain areas, what is this message when you tell them that the state is thinking about this area so much that it even abolishes the right to the headquarters of the basic court? That's an extremely bad message. When it comes to the audacity of justice, it is not just about whether a person who wants to exercise his right to the court will travel 25 or 30 kilometers to the court, it is not exactly what some of my colleagues are talking about. This thing is in that sense relatively covered. It's a matter of cost. There is no single evidence anywhere that the way a network of courts is arranged under this law is a rational way and that it will lead to a significant reduction in costs when it comes to the work of courts in our country. On the contrary, this concept is even more expensive than what we've had so far. The question has been asked, how do you react to a bill like this? Of course I'm against this bill of law, and we're happy to press the red key the day this law is decided... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. I'm just finishing up. The amendments that we have made to Article 3 and the other members of the law return the old system not because we want to return to the old names, old terms and old system of court arrangements, but to show you that what you have done is wrong and that it is necessary to withdraw this law from the procedure and replace it with new... (President: 16 minutes. )......................................................................................................... the bill of law. Please, do it and there won't be any problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8824	National MP Miroslav Markicevic is asking for a word. Your MP group is available for 20 seconds. Are you going to use that time or are you looking for a word to hurt the Rules of Procedure? National MP Miroslav Markicevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8825	Dear Vice-Presidents, Madam Ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. I need a message. When you hear, like all those who watch this transmission, you will see that what I am looking for is not abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as some interpret, but is important to the face of all of us sitting here. Please be quiet and please hear what this is about. So, I want to remind everyone that today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and I don't want to talk about it anymore, there are smarter and more professional people than me to talk about. I would like to remind you that recently, by adopting the budget rebalancing, we have adopted one, perhaps the only, amendment of the opposition, and that of the New Serbia MP, regarding those famous playgrounds for people with disabilities. That's about 12,000,000 dinars, that's about one salary from a public company director. It's December 3rd, and everyone who knows what the budget is and who's in local self-government and you're in charge of the budget at all, you know that the fiscal year lasts for another 28 days. Gentlemen, we still have 28 days, all of us sitting here and here behind me and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to save face. I am trying to make personal and friendly connections with a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement this amendment. I'm not doing anything right now. It seems to me that the Assembly does not only have a task and a role to make laws, decisions, but to control how those decisions are implemented. If we can't make that decision or I can't implement it, then the question is, what are we doing here? Dear Vice President, I ask you to give me and the Assembly a heads-up on what's going on with those twelve million. It can be distributed to six times two million for some six playgrounds, and everyone knows it's a small purchase, there's no procedure under the Public Procurement Act, and that it can be done within three days, if anyone wants to. Please, today at the break, I will be patient until this break, ask the competent ministries for information on what has been done with these money, if something has already been done, and if anyone knows, since I as the applicant of the amendment, on behalf of the New Serbia MPs, I do not know and I am not informed. Goca from G17, who unfortunately is a person with disabilities, a very intelligent person, I think today at some gatherings dedicated to disabled people, asked me to start pushing that amendment of mine, or to be more interested in what the chances of him being implemented at all are. I repeat, the amount of funds is the salary of the director of some public enterprises. By knowing you personally, honourable vice presidents, I ask you to give that notice today to all of us here together in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8826	I ask the service to immediately refer a stenogram to the Ministry of Finance of the People's Parliament. I ask the chairman of the Finance Committee to contact the Ministry of Finance, together with the Secretary of the Assembly, and to deliver the response on the adopted amendment, i.e. the funds per rebalancing, to the Assembly during the day as to the MP Miroslav Markevic and to the rest of us. People's MP Milan Veselinovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? You don't have time, the parliamentary group has taken advantage of the time. National MP Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic. You're reporting for an amendment hearing? According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8827	I wanted to give a notice about the International Day of Persons with Disabilities about activities that the Assembly will take on this plan today and tomorrow, among other activities. I speak on behalf of the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty, which, dealing with the issue of poverty, deals with people with disabilities, given the fact that this population belongs to those populations most at risk of poverty in Serbia. The Committee on Poverty Reduction will organise together with five other committees dealing with poverty problems, which are the Committee on Health and Family, the Education Committee, the Committee on Local Self-Government, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Labour, Employment and Social Affairs during today and tomorrow's visit to Nis and Leskovac. In Leskovec, we will hold a session of the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty with the theme "Achieving the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the poorest environments". Why are we doing this? Because the work of the Assembly is not only to pass laws, but also to work on their implementation, to control their implementation, and also to enable all interested citizens to participate actively in the work of the Assembly and to control its work. So, the idea, which we are going to achieve, is that today twenty MPs visit Nis, where local authorities, with the organisation of people with disabilities from this city, of course and with institutions, will discuss the problems of people with disabilities in Nis. Tomorrow in Leskovac, we will have a great public hearing with this topic, where we want to hear people with disabilities from the poorest environments succeed in building or building mechanisms together with local self-government to provide education and access to all facilities and employment of people with disabilities. We believe this is important information. I call on all persons with disabilities from these cities to join us and, in direct contact with MPs, provide the possibility for the National Assembly to perform its legislative, and its participatory and supervisory function. I thank and apologize if I've wasted my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8828	People's MPs, you should have listed a member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. Calling on Article 27, I would ask all the committee presidents that if they wish to inform the Committee about the activities of the National Assembly and the public about it, they would only deliver written information, and the President of the National Assembly or chair of the Committee would be obliged to read it, so as not to use and abuse the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word is from MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8829	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 3(1). Proposal for a Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. The purpose of the amendment is to specify and define the provisions in the text of the law, more precisely by harmonising with the very title of the bill in which the word "area" is used, not the word "teries". Similar amendments were submitted by both Master Martinovic and Mr Krasic. The Proposer rejects all these amendments, with the same explanation, which comes down to the following: The Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia uses the term "municipal territory", and the proposal for a law on the regulation of courts states that the court is founded on the territory of the municipality and hence results in the proposal for a law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors precisely determining what is considered an area and what is territory. So we ourselves need to figure out what the author (or authors) of this text of the bill had in mind or what he wanted to say. What kind of interpretation is really not clear, because it confuses more than it explains. Every lawyer also knows that there is a legal interpretation of the law, but this explanation that we have obtained cannot be taken under such interpretation. For example, the famous lawyer Andrija Gambs defines legal interpretation as an interpretation that has general force, as well as the law itself, since it is intended to specify the meaning of one already existing law and has a retroactive fact. As far as we know, this bill has not yet been passed. Neither can it be said that the author (or authors) of the bill applies a legal analogy similar to that of Article 781. The general property law, which provides for certain rules to be applied in the absence of trials under the rules of a similar type of business. But these are the rules of the XIX century, and they refer to judges who need to solve cases that are not provided for by law and cannot apply to the bill of the XXI century, especially this proposal that is before us. It cannot even be argued that the author used logical interpretation in the reasons for the refusal of amendments, because, by definition, again Andrija Gambsa, logical interpretation is a clarification of the meaning of the rules, establishing a logical link with the other legal regulations that apply to the law. I did not notice, either, that the text of the bill mentions all the laws that the author of the reasoning stated when the amendments were rejected. So, taking into account all the above, we believe that it was much easier and more appropriate to adopt the solution provided for in the amendment and which defines the vague concepts that appear in the bill. Nothing terrible would happen if the motionor admitted that he had used incorrect definitions and accepted this amendment. The explanation offered and referred to other laws, one of which is not even within the framework of a set of judicial laws, is mildly said, unserious. Also, when looking at the text of the bill, it is clear that there is a kind of confusion. Already in the title, the term "judgmental area" is used. Then, in Article 1(1), which determines the contained law, it states: "This law establishes infringing, basic, higher, business and appeals courts, determines their seats and areas in which they exercise jurisdiction and determine the departments of senior court and administrative court and districts... ". So, in attitude one, no mention of territory. The same is true in the position of the 2nd member concerned by the prosecutions and their seats and areas. However, in the next, the second member of the bill, regardless of the concepts used in title and Article 1, the term "terrory" is used. If we wanted to use an undefined interpretation or logic used by the promoter to explain the rejection, then we could argue that the title and Article 1 appear to use the term "area". If not, then the question arises whether the spirit of this bill is closer to the title of the law and Article 1, which determines the content of the law, or the texts of some other laws? Also, when other members of the Bill of Law are looked at, for example, Article 7 which determines the departments of the higher criminal court and when its provisions are compared to those of Article 2, there is again a notional and linguistic confusion. For example, Article 7(1), which regulates the division of a higher criminal court, states for the department in Kragujevac that this applies to the area of criminal courts in Arangelovac, Gornji Milanovac, Jagodina, etc. On the other hand, Article 2 states, for example, that the infringement court in Arangelovac, for the territory of the municipalities of Arangelovac and Topol, with the court department in Topoli; or, the violation court in Bačka Palanca, for the territory of the municipalities of Bac, Baka Palanka and Baki Petrovac, with the court department in Bac and Backo Petrovac, etc. It was therefore necessary to bring these concepts into line with Article 1 of the Law, which determines the content of the law itself, unless, in principle, everything that is written in the draft law has already been included in that article. In addition, it would be in line with our legal tradition, as it was written in the 1844 Serbian Civil Code: "The meaning of the law is that no one twists and misreads. Everyone mind their words and their true meaning." The adoption of amendments would be in line with modern legal science, because, according to the famous Ronald Dvorkin, one of the leading modern law theorists, a professor of law at the University of New York, legal arguments in complicated cases depend on controversial concepts. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment would at least somewhat improve the text of the draft law. It would also be a good solution because of the context that follows this bill. I would like to remind you that on the basis of the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, even Vida Petrovic-Škero, president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, has openly said (a statement in one daily newspaper since 30 November) that there has been no evidence of what effects the proposed legal solutions will produce. Then he says, "I have great fear and doubt whether the efficiency of the judicial system will be improved or worsened, especially when it comes to how short the deadlines for the implementation of the law itself are. I have great concern that within the scheduled deadlines there will be no adequate conditions for the operation of such an organisationalally modified network. Judges will spend a large number of hours in transport to judicial units, cases will have to be continuously transferred, and the conditions for this are not provided. I am also afraid of major abuses of the procedural powers of parties in the process which will deliver their submissions to the judicial unit or to the basic court. At this point, we don't even know the exact number of judges needed for this kind of work organisation. We don't have an analysis of the type and number of objects. In addition to partial computerisation of the economic judiciary, regular courts in Serbia do not have unique software, nor technical opportunities to network a computer system that would allow easier work. I am afraid that this decision, without a previous analysis, is an experiment that does not lead to better efficiency," concludes Mrs. Shkero. So, taking into account this view of the profession, more specifically, we have seen that in the previous quote even the abuse of the procedural powers of the parties in the process, the question is whether the bill provides for the right guaranteed by Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights, which is the right to a fair trial? I am not sure that this issue can be given a valid answer, although it is in the National Programme for Serbia's EU integration, under the heading Justice System, on page 47, particularly points out Article 6. European Conventions. Also, in the context of the debate on a set of judicial laws, the following should be noted. We all agree that better judicial work is necessary, but this is not achieved by phrases such as those on page 42; the National Strategy is set a period of six years (until 2012) to implement reform objectives and establish a judicial system that will meet the needs of new social values. However, progress is not achieved by the draft laws, which even the Supreme Court president claims were brought too quickly. On the other hand, you've seen that there's not even a single software. So, from the so-called. Brussels values, unrealistic legal solutions and experiments cannot be lived. More specifically, the work of the judiciary cannot be improved in this way. The work of the judiciary is improved when better standards of living are provided in the judiciary or when additional funding is provided for the judiciary from the budget. That's what serious states do, for example, the Russian Federation. Yesterday in Moscow, the 8th Congress of Judges of Russia was held. President Medvedev also attended. The main topic was - co-operation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, more specifically, further financing of the judiciary. It's a real reform of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8830	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. The time available to your parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8831	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are almost no MPs in this House who would not speak of such important laws. Namely, the proposed set of laws in the judiciary is something that interests all citizens of Serbia, but I must say that the judiciary is in Serbia, not to say what the former ministers said, but I can say, at least in the part I know about, a black hole. This is a painful point for all citizens and it is normal for problems to be solved there, but unfortunately not with such a proposal set of laws that continue to confuse citizens, whose legislators still want to centralise the judiciary and judicial authorities and the work of judges. It should have been fortunate for you to listen to Professor Vojislav Seselj who publicly said that there were major problems in the judiciary, but they should be dealt with in principle and that there is a measure and archin there so that there can be a proper measure of the work of judges. Professor Vojislav Seselj said that all cases should be the basis for assessing the work of judicial authorities and judges. He said cases should be resolved within six months, except for serious crimes such as murders and organised crime. That is why, in your own words, every judge and every judicial authority, or court, should be lustrated. You're using the term "lastration" today, and you're not explaining, about this notion, what are the deadlines, what is it that should be measured in the work of judges to improve the work of the judicial authority in general, but the very position of a judge who should remain independent and independent, who should contain the autonomy of the judge, and also be forced to work on cases and solve cases. You know, there's a curse in our people, when a mother swears a son, she says, "I hope you went to justice in court or to trust in the community." That is what is painful for Serbian citizens and that is what tortures and harasses citizens. Your bill will not improve the work, nor will it remove the great pain of the citizens of Serbia, or the burden that citizens have, regarding seeking justice. You have seen – the more you Democrats rule, the more work it is for judicial authorities. A particular problem is this proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. This is a legal project that was not to be found on the agenda of this assembly session in this form. These days you saw that not only were opposition MPs, but those who spoke critically about this bill. I note that many of the positions will blackmail the government of Serbia, or the minister of justice, to accept some amendments, but that does not mean that by accepting these amendments they can improve this legislative project. I'm not particularly interested in doing this selectively or where national minorities, of course, are threatened by the removal of any seat of courts, municipal or criminal. I simply think that the Serbian government should withdraw this legal project from the process and do it. Since I live in the Raška area, in Novi Pazar, and I know the problems in the environment, in Tutin, Sjenica and Raškoj, many have mentioned it, I am taking the opportunity to remind the Minister that there are problems there not only because we are gravitating towards the border with Montenegro and the administrative border with Kosovo and Metohija, but there are problems of villages away from Novi Pazar, whose inhabitants should come to Novi Pazar to seek justice and to cross over 80 km. We're not in a position to lift the base court seat in Tutin. This has been discussed by many MPs and Mrs Verse Radeta. But as a man who knows that environment, I'm saying that it would only make it difficult for citizens to deal with problems, and it's a bad job of the New Market judiciary anyway, so these things would pile up in one place. If we're considering the weather and the mountain-mounted area, I don't know when she's old enough to come looking for her justice. You know well that everyone in society has the intensities to spread the network not only of schools, homes of health, but also of justice, of judicial authorities, to be available to all citizens. In this case and in this way, gentlemen, you will speed up migration movements and migrations and evictions from that space.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8832	People's MP, the time available to the MP's group has been used. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, I support Mr Dejan Mirovic's amendment to Article 3. I think it's very good to use the word "area" rather than "territory". Of course, SRS MP Dejan Mirovic adequately explained this. All this about the areas of the courts, as Dejan Mirovic said, and my amendment, which was long explained here yesterday, says that the solutions given by this bill are not good. We don't listen to Serbian citizens, we don't listen to professions, we don't listen to practically all those people who are going to apply this law tomorrow. That's not good. We are here, first of all, to pass laws that are in the interest of citizens. Here's an example of why all of this is not good, and it concerns, above all, the Council of European Judges who held a session on 14 November 2008 in Strasbourg. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, have you been informed of this session, of this declaration? Because, in agreement with the Declaration, you have been informed that it is necessary to make a written call for a meeting to discuss the issues referred to in the declaration itself. It is proposed to postpone the vote of judicial laws until then, since the urgency of their adoption is motivated, in addition to other reasons, and the need for faster EU accession, but their quality, or compliance with European standards, is also needed, as indicated by the above declaration. This is one of the many appeals of the Society of Judges. What's this about? We are passing laws on the sidelines that it is all in the interest of entering the EU, and at the session of the Advisory Council of European Judges we get a recommendation, which is not binding, but certainly suggests that we are on a bad path here, that these laws that we are making are of quality, because they will not accept us, will not open the door for us if we adopt some partial laws, some laws that are not lifeless, which New Serbia's MPs have repeatedly pointed out in their amendments. Madam Minister, it is easy to say from this pay phone or from Belgrade that this "traveling circus", as I called it yesterday, when it comes to these special judicial units, will be well organised. You know very well that's going to be extremely difficult. You know, when you have a delegation of the court in another city, because of some exception, how long such a one procedure is going on, how difficult it is, and it's changing bigger; it's only in some individual cases extremely difficult, and basically we are delegating judges from another city to go on trial in these areas. I'm absolutely sure, as I've said multiple times from this pay phone, when it comes on January 1st 2010, that we're going to postpone the application of this law here. That's right with the Civil Service Act, so is some of the other laws we're making. If you think that the opposition MPs point to something only in the spirit of us attacking, which is our role in the adoption of some laws, then answer me what it is about the consulting large European judges who are well-intentioned, surely, saying that some things are not in line with European standards? I'll tell you it's in article 144. The constitution said that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court could be elected for a period of five years and that he could no longer be elected. Also, in Article 146. The constitution says that the judge's office is permanent. There's a point. Thus, the complete set of laws, when speaking about the area of courts, speaks elegantly about judicial reform. You will, through this reform of the judiciary, make such a re-election of judges who do not comply with the Constitution, and otherwise favour some solutions that are not good. Once again, I will say that New Serbia's MPs cannot support such a law and, as Mr Aligrudic said a few minutes ago, we will be happy to press the red key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8834	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic, and a National MP named Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted one of the 124 amendments to how much the bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors has been submitted. How bad the situation with this law is just showing the fact that this bill has 19 members and 124 amendments. It is the worst of a set of judicial laws, and I think it is quite understandable that it has caused so many negative reactions not only with MPs, but also with the judicial public. I have submitted the amendment to Article 3 where I ask that the existing solution that we have in the law be maintained, because I believe it is a good solution that has so far shown good results and that therefore it is not necessary to change it. In the debate on the set of judicial laws, the DSS MPs pointed out their objections, but we attacked the most precisely this bill because we believe that the consequences of its application will be the most negative. I have repeatedly said that the legislator did not respect reality when he referred this bill to the assembly procedure, did not do a serious analysis that was supposed to answer the question of whether it was possible for a bill like this to come to life. Most importantly, he did not set the criteria for the abolition of 104 municipal courts. I think it might have been justified for certain municipal courts to be abolished somewhere, but then it should have been made clear. The criteria for their abolition should be established. If the criterion is a small inflow of the case or if it is a criterion, for example, that the court that counts to five judges should be abolished, then I do not believe that any of the MPs would have the argument to attack such a solution. This way, you do it at random and without respecting the basic criteria that have to be respected. It is about criteria relating to the size of the court itself, to the number of cases, to the number of courts, to the size and resolution of the municipality, to the development of road infrastructure. These are all the criteria you had to bear in mind when you proposed one such solution. In our explanation, we have heard that the reason for introducing such a network of courts is to rationalise the network of courts and reduce the costs of the court. I've said several times so far that it's impossible for these costs to be reduced, especially if we know that the judge will have to have a fee of official travel, then a fee for the expenses for the daily papers, we'll have the cost of witnesses, artists, interpreters, all who will have to respond to the court's call, if the trial is held in the judicial unit, and if it takes them to cross several or 100 km, as we have an example from Bosilegrad to Vranja or from Vranja to Bosilegrad, to come, in one direction, to the court. Courts are being abolished in places where previous trials took place in the languages of national minorities. Yesterday I was talking about how this could cause a very dangerous consequence, which is that members of the national minorities begin to give up using their own national language, their native language, something guaranteed by the Constitution itself. Disposing of courts is a political issue, and despite the large number of workers can also cause many other negative consequences. I'm surprised that no one's ever thought about how it's going to be emptying the edge areas. You know that in these areas employment is extremely low and that most people work precisely in these bodies: in courts, health institutions, schools. By abolishing the court in such a place, you are in fact taking part in the death of that space. We'll have a situation where residents from these parts will head to the central municipalities and that the very idea of even regional development and decentralisation will remain a dead letter on paper. I think your idea, of course, is to create in Belgrade a basic court and five million inhabitants, because unfortunately, this bill will pass. A special problem is the organisation of work in the Belgrade judiciary. I don't know how many times I've talked about this before, but I don't think it's bad to say it again. Five municipal courts have been abolished, a basic one is set up to cover the entire city's territory and another base that will cover the territory of suburban settlements. The first basic court will cover the territory of all previous five municipal courts and, don't forget, all cases. We now have a situation where a litigator, on average, has about 300 cases in Belgrade courts; the culprit has between 200 and 250; the investigative judge 500 cases. How do you think a trial with this number of cases will be held within a reasonable period of time? It's simply impossible, since we know that judges judge each other, on the third day for lack of number of courtrooms. In addition to all my efforts to understand and imagine what this work would look like in the Belgrade judiciary, it is simply not clear to me that the legislator did not provide for additional funds to implement this law. That fact just shows how many representatives of the ministry simply do not know the situation in the Belgrade judiciary. If you create one basic court, then you can assume that it's a good thing that the basic court is placed in one building, not only because of the need for administration, criminal, litigation, office and all cases to be in one place at all. When I tried to imagine what this building could be the only thing that ever occurred to me, I would advise you to think very carefully about building a new Empire State Building because I think it's a building that can accept this number of objects and everything that goes with it. As Minister of Justice, you must have the answer to the question where you were planning to place the first basic court, because I believe that if you have seriously approached this problem and are making a new network of courts at all, then it is necessary that you give the answer to that question. This is a matter of great practical importance, not only because it is important for the cases to be in one place and to be available to both the judges and the parties at any time, but to avoid additional costs. On the other hand, if you do, and if you have provided for the first basic court to be placed in several buildings, then a fully justified question is asked – why have you abolished all other municipal courts? The question is, what will be the situation with the service over? We know what ranks are now in the Palace of Justice to verify one document. In the current situation, citizens have the right to verify documents in five municipal courts. We know that this issue of local jurisdiction is not being asked. With this bill, you will create only one basic court where it will be possible for citizens to verify those documents. As long as it takes to overwrite a document, I can't even assume it. I do not ask you to accept this amendment, because it is absolutely impossible, it destroys the whole concept of this law, but I am asking for what all representatives of the parliamentary groups and all MPs who have responded to the word – to withdraw this bill, because it is amendment, I repeat for who knows which time, this bill is impossible to correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8836	The Messenger of the people is Pai Momchilov. After him is the Messenger of the people, Zlata Đerić, and the Messenger of Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8837	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency and the Honorable Madam Minister, here's our last in a set of justice laws. I came here to support the amendment tabled by Mrs Milica Radovic, in front of the SRS MPs. However, Mrs. Milica Radovic herself expressed her suspicion that it is possible to adopt this amendment in this way. In response to the government, we see the government as saying in reason - we should not accept this because it remains an old law in use, so we cannot accept it for that reason. But what is interesting is that Mrs. Milica Radovic herself was even more radical during yesterday; she supported the amendment of Mr. Spasojevic Srdjana, who proposed that this Article 3 be simply deleted. There's one thing that needs to be repeated over and over again: you see, 19 members of the law and 124 amendments. There's an old Chinese proverb that says this - if you're going down the road and three people tell you you're drunk, go home, sleep, at least you haven't tasted alcohol. It is interesting, however, that the Government's representative persists and does not react to these remarks, and the objections are not only from opposition lines, but from these objections, it is visible, and from the ranks of the position. I'm not going to deal with the question why, to explain, I'm just going to try my own exposure to say that some things are happening to us. You see, we have one controversial law, which even the justice people themselves didn't welcome with sympathy and have a whole series of objections. Secondly, it is interesting that we discuss these laws as an emergency procedure, and we will apply them, allegedly, in 2010. What's that all about? About the fact that we don't discuss more important matters in this House. What are the more important things? It's certainly the state issue of Kosovo and Metohija, where we see that this new Eulex formation is already being deployed; it's waiting for this act to happen, and then we can post a festrum, perhaps, with regrets, that it's no longer worth talking about. Other things, legislative things that would be interesting for this Parliament, that's the budget anyway, that's the basic law. It is not the turn, and then again we will have to discuss the most important law this parliament is making. And, of course, committed criminal affairs in public enterprises should also end, so we will lose our strength in discussing this least controversial law. What's for sure is that many have said that lustration is introduced in a special way here, damage is done to judges. You're making judges "globtrotter" with a travel bag, people who will walk from place to place, burping one in the judiciary, completely unnecessary. But most importantly, the more MPs pointed out, is whether you bring these laws for citizens, to make their lives easier. When a man is tried, it's not a pleasant situation in life. It is often related to large material expenditures. Does this proposal make life easier for Serbian citizens? Absolutely not. You know that, too. Then what's the motive for insisting on it, that's the question. So it's not a criticism of an opposition MP, let's go through the logic of the bill promoter. "Tanjug" is 24. 9. published a statement by Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. The gentleman said this set of laws would suit the anti-corruption trends. So people at the Ministry wanted to help fight corruption by passing this set of laws. Mr. Homen himself said that there is no classical corruption in the judiciary, he said there is only slowness in procedures and inadequate punishment and that it is a problem with corruption. What did he specifically say? He says, "In this sense, we believe that the entry of a new network of courts into work, as we expect from 1 June of next year, will fully create an opportunity to respond to trends in the fight against corruption." Corruption is also an important problem for Serbian society, no one will slow it down. If we look at what the Transparency International said in its analysis, we do not belong to countries that should be proud of their lack of corruption. Of the 180 countries, we belong in 83rd place. Countries 1 to 10 are evaluated, and 10 is the best grade. At the very top are Finland, of the European countries, New Zealand, not to enter who they are, and we are in a group with Montenegro, Albania, Senegal, India, with a score of 3.4. What is very interesting, there is a GRECO Group of the Council of Europe, a group of countries to fight corruption, which monitored Serbia two years ago and gave recommendations, 25 points that Serbia should adopt. You have recently been able to see that from Mr. Kos, a Slovenian who is headed by this body, there have been frequent threats addressed to Serbia and that it is possible for the Council of Europe to impose sanctions on Serbia for corruption. That's not controversial. No one knows how much corruption goes into one country, but according to some of the Serbian citizens, corruption costs 20% more than they pay in ordinary, everyday life. It is believed that 25% of the state budget used for public procurement goes to corruption. If seen in 2007, then 188 billion dinars reported by suppliers through public procurement were reported to have been so realised. The problem is that it hasn't been reported yet, and if a man is watching as much as it went to corruption, then that's where it went, let me say in euros, half a billion euros. So it must be important to fight corruption. What, though, is the difference between us? You say that by changing the law, new sets of laws and applying them will prevent corruption. No, it won't change; we say – you don't apply current laws and that's the basic reason why we have corruption. Laws should be applied, not fictitiously changing laws, and then pretending to do something about corruption, and nothing in particular is done. Now you can tell me I'm the one who's making the accusations, and I'll try to prove to you that it's a real-life problem. As I come from the field of medicine, I'm a doctor, and I'm going to try to convince you on a medical case that I'm telling you the truth. However, before that I would only point out, you know, that in the United Nations, the Anti-Corruption Convention was brought in 2003, October 31st. We have ratified this convention, which says that the United Nations member states do not have a legislative form to follow, but each country needs to pass customized laws that will effectively fight corruption. That's probably not controversial. Elem, what am I saying? As president of the Health Committee, a letter from Novi Sad came to me where the union, the organisation "Independence" of the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, tells us that 15 months ago they filed a criminal complaint with the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad on suspicion that there was illegal behaviour in the procurement process of sterilization equipment. After 14 months of reporting, the district public prosecutor's office has found out that there is a reasonable suspicion of abuse of official position and has filed a request to conduct an investigation against suspects. The subject with a request for an investigation was forwarded to the district court's investigative judge in Novi Sad Alimpic Miroslav and the executive number is KI 288/08. After 15 days, what happened? Since applying for an investigation, the case has been reinstated to the jurisdiction of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, under the orders of the public prosecutor. I don't speak names, I have names and I have objects, I have a photocopy of all these objects. I'm not going into the trap again to try to answer the telelogical question why, but I want to shed some light on what's been going on here. You see, in the Institute of Kamenica, in our top health care facility, material must be sterilized, and there are sterilizers there that were remounted in 2006 in summer. Focus has been remounted in the 11th report as well. On the 10th, she said there was nothing wrong with the sterilizer she remounted. She suggested, at the same time, because the capacities were insufficient, that a new steriliser would offer to good co-operation, which would cost 79,000 euros, but with a 50% discount, which means 39,000 euros. What happens next? For no apparent reason, the director of the facility sends an application to Okilijevic Milan, the owner of the firm "Medikam" from Šapac and Protechnom from Zemun, to come check the sterilisers and tell them what the situation is. Of course, there's a report from that gentleman on September 26th from the medical school that sterilization is inadequate. What happens next? Without the tender, the contract goes to the purchase of new sterilizers and three companies appear: "Medika" - Shabac, "Protechno" - Zemun, the property of Okiljevic who found that the appliances were not enough; then he competed with his companies and third, of course, pro form, player – it is the firm "PTM" from Šapec. Of course, it buys an Italian CIS machine that pays 29,555,000 dinars, so we don't go into the smaller ones. What happens next? The police check found that "Medicoma" did not buy the apparatus, that it was acquired from another company, did not import it, that the apparatus is much cheaper in Italy. The state was thus found to be damaged by a minimum of 150,000 euros, and some other indicators show that more than 200,000 euros. It's all been found, it's all in the papers, and you can see everything. Look what our judiciary is doing. Mrs. Malovic, we express our admiration for your dedicated work as minister, at least when it comes to our assembly. You can serve as an example to all the other ministers, we have seen here many who are not up to your knees to do their ministerial duty when it comes to parliament, but I now urge you not to allow such crime along with your colleagues. At the same time, I appeal to political parties. The political party of Mr. Boris Tadic (in the jargon we say "yellow company", the people have already accepted it and it no longer amazes anyone when we say it) has also declared the fight against crime in its ranks. Here's an example, all proven, all solved. Just one more interesting thing. What makes a man say now that it's something that's already started, given to the judge to proceed, it's all proven and restored again? Because of a small fact that Mr. Okilijevic is best man with one high-ranking member of the Democratic Party, your former colleague, Minister Petrovic. That's about the whole story. Now I'd like to finish my exposure to what your colleague, Secretary of State Mr. Homen said. What would be most important today in society is that all segments of society go into an open and true fight, frankly, against corruption, and the judiciary is just the last instance when punishment comes to those who have violated the law and who are engaged in receiving and giving bribes or some other types of corruption. Now, just apply that, apply the law, punish those clearly proven to have damaged this country for a significant amount of money, and that will be it. I think that this example has proven enough that it should not only be a fictitious change of some laws to fight, but rather by applying already existing ones, and those laws that we had earlier on concerning the network of courts must have come from a decade of experience, and surely that time also showed their purpose. It shouldn't even be conservative, it should be avant-garde, but not at all costs, and especially should it not be avant-garde at the expense of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8838	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8839	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Ministers, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I do not only want to be a commentator of these laws on judicial reform, but, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, to support the amendment of counterpart Radovic, who best completes the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, of course, if adopted. Failure to accept this amendment will create a number of problems for Serbian citizens who expect justice from the judiciary and finance institutions that are obliged to provide it on behalf of them. This new territorial structure, which is implemented without visible criteria, and those who would be reasonable are not respected, will only lead to new problems and that wing that justice is slow but accessible, we fear, will make it more modern, more Serbian, in terms of justice is slow, but is not in sight. The rhetoric is a science based on the judiciary, but you can't convince us that this isn't a shut-down of courts, and hence the community. It's not true that it's the same thing, just a little different. That's the truth that Orwell shot down with that claim that they're all equal, only some are more equal. The efficiency of this new structure is not in sight. My fellow MPs explained yesterday and today, I think they'll be doing it all day long, very practical life examples of what a new organization like this will bring in practice. I would like to single out the example of my colleague Elvira Kovac, who made a very good document yesterday, and I think that my colleague Srdjan Spasojevic has also made numerous examples in favour of this claim. At the moment of transition, which leaves people without a job on the street daily, justice will be expensive and inaccessible, and slowness should not even be mentioned. Of course, this will also be an excuse for special disputes, those who have political colour in themselves, and all of us who come from the inside can give you thousands of such cases that are being delayed or by the method of exorcising and similar methods of citizens are making it impossible for them to reach the desired goal, i.e. a fair outcome. The Western District, where I come from, faces new layoffs every day. People are trying to exercise their rights in court, the judiciary is buried with cases, and it is obvious that only in this field Sombor will not be enough to meet the needs of the citizens of Apatino, Kula and Odjak, unless they are left with the possibility of solving it in their territory. Police have long claimed they have had a lack of inspectors in economic crime. Citizens wait ten years to meet their basic right. I'm going to give you a drastic example that is very current in the municipality of The Tower these days, and I'm also looking for an answer to the question. So, the Eterne workers in The Tower have not received their personal income for five years, their account is blocked for three years, and we know that by law it can be up to a year; so the inspections are in serious contact with some other institutions; police say they don't have enough inspectors in terms of economic crime. Small shareholders are in court, handing over all this to the court and waiting for someone to do something because they suspect a major robbery is in sight, since they have some real estate left in terms of building land worth several million euros and one resort in Zlarin, near Sibenik, the Republic of Croatia, of the same value. So we expect the Justice Department and the competent inspectorates to give us an answer to this question – why is nothing being done about the employees of the "Etarna" Tower, who addressed all state institutions? So, does that winged woman that life can't wait for everyone or only someone's life can't wait, so they, hearing everything they've been told these days, grab it in a hurry because they're in a hurry and everybody else can wait? Madam Minister, this is a radical reform and your courage is to admire, but bear in mind, you will enter the history of the Serbian judiciary as a minister who has dared to take such a step and you are able to choose a way. If Mr Batic has made his time in the history of the Serbian judiciary as a minister who has given the judges dignity, then you must try not to be remembered as a gravedigger of Serbian courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8840	The word has an MP named Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8841	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister of Justice, I want to support this amendment by Milice Radovic, as well as all previous debaters who advocate not to abolish municipal courts, as this leads us to centralization, in dictatorship. The consequences are inconclusive for all municipalities that have a small population, and you did not take care of their surface. For example, my municipality of Bruce, where I come from, has 650km square, 85km in diameter; the neighbouring municipality of Kursumli has 980km square, the municipality is the largest in Serbia or among the first two or three. In particular, I would like to stress that my municipality of Bruce and the municipality of Kursumli is bordering Kosovo, together have over 125km of border towards Kosovo; the municipality of Bruce belongs to 27, and 80km belongs to Kursumlia, which borders with the municipalities of Poduje and Pristina. You can imagine how residents in these areas feel about the loss of municipal courts, panic is among them, because from the furthest villages from these border areas to the parent municipalities, for example, in the municipality of Bruce there are 50 kilometers, and now they have to schedule a trial in the municipality of Kruševac, where they need another 54 kilometers, so that's 104 kilometers in one direction. It is the same situation in the municipality of Kursumli, where people from individual villages to Prokuplje need almost as much to come to an appointment, and then set them up in courts in Kursumlia. I don't think that justice and trial will be civilized because many will resort to blunt objects, like in the Middle Ages, if these municipal courts are extinguished. Please once again, if something had to be shut down, it had to be taken care to at least these border protection municipalities. I mean not only the municipalities of Bruce and Kurzumli, but all the border municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. I would no longer talk about it, I agree with previous debaters that this law should be expelled and I join all MPs and the positions and oppositions that are against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8842	Anyone else want a word? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and requesting notice from the President of the National Assembly. I suppose, Mrs. Comic, even though you're changing her right now, you don't have that information. If you do, it will be precious to hear it from you. Serbian Radical Party MPs launched a debate here last week on earnings and possible abuses in public enterprises by directors, presidents and board members. MPs, or representatives of all MPs' groups (or almost all), joined this debate and supported us in this debate, and this made a strong impression in the public. The Serbian citizens realized that we want all things to be done for a cleanup, that we want to because of this crisis, and not only because of the crisis but in general, to give to the citizens of Serbia who, as well as how they spend their money, because what they spend on the budget of the Republic of Serbia is the money of Serbian citizens who are given through taxes, contributions etc. But we think it would be a good idea to start from here, from Parliament, to show the right examples of how to dispose of the funds of Serbian citizens. Of course, we have never joined the demagogue story, how much a working day costs in the Assembly, etc., because we think that the work of parliament should be public and to see how much who and how it works, how the citizens of Serbia are represented. As a member of the Working Party for the draft Law on the National Assembly, I was very surprised when I was notified from the service, or asked if I wanted to go to Divcibar on Friday morning to return on Sunday after lunch, to stay at the Hotel Divcibare with other members of that working group to draft a bill on the National Assembly. It's really amazing for someone to think that this task force is going somewhere to rest for the weekend on state spending, instead of sitting nice in a room, we've got so warmed up, we can open windows so we can go through them, we can sit down and do what it is to do with the work of the MPs. I apologize for the time, but I received a report from the third working group session, which I did not attend – says that the session was attended, among other things, by Sreto Peric, a member of the working group, and he did not. Worse than that, Sreto Peric said he asked the members of the task force whether the text of the draft law on the National Assembly would have to be compared to the European Union regulations. Something like this, Sreto Peric wouldn't even be drunk to ask. He wasn't there. He's not a member of the task force. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. I ask you for information – who thought of this crazy idea that members of the task force would go on weekends, vacation on Divcibara?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8844	The information I have at my disposal can be shared with you immediately. If it's a record, then it's a subject for changes and additions to the minutes. I'm guessing it's a name error, because I've only attended this task force session. It's about MP Djury Peric. I cannot say that, because the minutes will be adopted, but at this stage, while the minutes were only delivered, and not at the working group session where the remarks and proposals for amendments to the minutes were made, I apologize to MP Sreti Periæ for the inconveniences he had. As far as information on the work group's stay in Divcibara, as far as I know, it's not about funding such a stay by the Assembly, but from the UNDP, but take it with the reserve because it's the thing that I need to check. This has come to me as information, that it is not about the will of the Assembly itself to spend on the budget, because this is not the only law dealing with co-operation with NGOs or with OSCE-type organisations. For example, the law on auditors worked with the financing and co-operation of the CIDA, an NGO from Canada. NGOs or UNDP and OSCE organisations, which assist, do so on the basis of an agreement established with the President of the Assembly and it is very clear what their obligations are, and, of course, the content of the law and everything related to the law is owned by MPs. National MP Donka Banovic wants to talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8845	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on 7 July this year, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic spoke in this assembly about the judiciary and said, among other things, that "The reform of the judiciary will be accelerated, with the aim of building an effective and independent judiciary and prosecution, to strengthen the rule of law and legal certainty, to achieve a goal that will entail the adoption of a series of laws that will be regulated by the judicial system in line with European standards and interests of Serbian citizens". These laws in the area of justice, and especially this law that we are talking about today in particular, are not aimed at fulfilling the promises made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic here to us, as well as to the citizens of Serbia. So that will improve efficiency has no word. That there's going to be some kind of rationalization, there's not a word about it either. That the rule of law and the legal certainty of citizens will be improved, there is no talking about it either. So the very fact that this law has only 19 members and that it has 124 amendments means that this law is not good. Among other things, when it comes to this law, it is not only the MPs of the opposition or opposition parties who have submitted amendments. You may, for the first time, have in this session the situation that many party MPs who make up the ruling majority have also submitted amendments. All MPs agree that this bill is not good. Mrs. Malovic has several solutions and ways to get out of this situation. One, that would be the best way to do it, is to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure and give up this network of courts. Another way is to accept the amendment of our colleague Srdjan Spasojevic, who suggests that the 3rd article be deleted. The third way is to accept the amendment of counterpart Milice Radovic of the DSS, which in the amendment proposes that this and such a proposal of Article 3 be deleted and that its amendment, which implies the return of an existing network of courts, be accepted. The fourth way, since DSS MPs have tried to propose a different solution for each point in this article, would also be to return to an existing network of courts. So there are four ways for the government to get out of this bad situation, so it doesn't do much damage when it comes to the functioning of judicial authorities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8846	Before we move on to the next amendment, the verified information on the issue asked by the People's MP Verica Radeta: the UNDP pays all the costs of accommodation, and the Council of Europe pays experts who should analyse what is the proposal of the Working Party to draft laws on the National Assembly. On the third amendment, with correction, the MPs Lodi Gabor, Tamash Tot and Maraci Nandor together submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8847	The President-in-Office, a respected minister, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today and yesterday, we heard a lot of complaints about this law. And we have also made some remarks and we would like to think about these remarks a little bit and accept this amendment in the voting day. First of all, our amendment is set out in the following – in Article 3(1), new points 1) and 2) are added, which read as follows: "1) The basic court in Ada, for the territory of the Municipality of Ada, 2), the General Court in Bačka Topoli, for the territory of the municipalities of Backo Topol and Mali Ijoš, with the judicial unit in Mali Ijoš. "After point 2) is added a new point 3) which reads: "3) The basic court in Vienna, for the territory of the municipalities of Becej, Žablj, Novi Becej, Srbobran and Temerin, with judicial units in Žablj, Novi Becej, Srbobran and Temerin". After point 9), a new point (10) is added, which reads as follows: "10) The basic court in Kanjiza, for the territory of the municipalities of Kanjiž, Novi Knezevic and Choka, with judicial units in Novi Knezvac and Choki". Point 10) is amended and reads as follows: "10) The basic court in Kikinda, for the territory of the municipalities of Kikinda and Nova Crnja, with a judicial unit in Nova Crnja". Point 20) is amended as follows: "20) The basic court in Novi Sad, for the territory of the municipalities of Bac, Bačka Palanka, Bačka Petrovac, Beocin, Vrbas, Sremski Karlovci, Titell and the town of Novi Sad, with judicial units in Bac, Bačka Palanca, Bačka Petrovac, Beocino, Vrbas, Sremski Karlovci and Titel". After point 27, a new point 28 is added, which reads: "28) The basic court in Sainta, for the territory of the Municipality of Sainta". Point 31) is amended and reads as follows: "31) The basic court in Subotica, for the territory of the city of Subotica". We have made this proposal because in these territories, in these municipalities live national minorities - Hungarian, Russian, Slovak, Romanian, etc., not thinking that a colleague recently said that national minorities are at risk, because you know that every middle of the story is for itself, and the territory of the Serbian state extends from Horgos to Dragos and that in such a way we should think. However, I would point out why a basic court in Kanjiza, with units in Novi Knezevic and Choki, should remain as a judicial unit, i.e. a municipal court. First of all, the municipality of Kanjiž and the municipality of Novi Kneževec is bordered, between them the natural border makes the river Tisa. Secondly, the distance between the populated town of Novi Knezevac and the settlement town of Kanjiž, where the centers of municipal courts are now only three kilometers away. Third, it is the border municipalities that have the same problem in their work and operation, because in the area of the municipality of Kanjiž there is the border crossing of Horgos, the largest border crossing towards the EU, and in the area of the municipality of Novi Knezevac there is the border crossing of the Djala which is increasingly gaining importance, which will be modernised in due time and whose traffic will eventually increase. As a result, we expect the increase in traffic at all border crossings, meaning at the border crossings of Horgos and Djala, the need to respect the deadlines foreseen by the CAP, which can be achieved most successfully by the work of the basic court in Kanjiza, with a unit in Novi Knezevic. As fourth, for residents of the municipality of Novi Knezevac, the District Court in Subotica is less distant than the County Court in Zrenjanin. As a fifth, both municipalities are located in the area of a future euro area that will cover areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Romania. As sixth, in the area of the municipality of Kanjiž and the municipality of Novi Knezevec, there are a number of members of the Hungarian national minority who can make their rights more simple than using their native language within the basic court in Kanjiza, with a unit in Novi Knezevic, where several judges who are qualified to conduct all kinds of procedures in Serbian and Hungarian. As the seventh, the existence of a municipality court in Kanjija with a unit for the municipality of Novi Knezevec provides to a greater extent and provides citizens with access to justice in this court, which in the modern European legal system is a fundamental issue and a criterion which determines and demonstrates the effectiveness of the legal system. The municipality of Kanjiž and the municipality of Novi Knezevac are otherwise linked to economic, cultural, political and educational ties, which also confirms the founding of a new basic court based in Kanjiža. I would also like to add that this connection between municipalities on both sides of the Tisa River is a fact that pervades the everyday life of citizens on both sides of Tisa and has an extremely long tradition. I think the Honorable Minister also knows that the Canjija Municipal Court has participated in international projects and programmes. The Canjija municipal court participated in international projects and programmes, organised by the National Council for State Courts, in co-operation with USAID. During 2007 and 2008, the Canjiza Municipal Court participated in the Kingdom of Norway project titled "Improvement of Justice in Courts in the Republic of Serbia". Based on its successful participation in this project, the Canjija Municipal Court has provided more than 20,000 euros for its projects. On 3 October 2008, a project transfer was carried out, i.e. works, and was stressed by the project's representatives that the Canjija Municipal Court had successfully completed all its programmes, and could, with great probability, successfully compete for further participation in the project. Representatives of the Norwegian project have shown their satisfaction that the Canjiza Municipal Court, in addition to investment programmes, has achieved fourteen projects that are non-investmental and concern improvements in the work and image of the court. I must also point out this: only four judges perform the judge's office, although systematicisation provides for seven judges, along with the President of the Court. The following cases have been reported and processed from 1 January to 30 September: cases of investigation 128, criminal cases 281, litigation cases 506, labour disputes 47, desert proceedings 339, executive cases 241, out-of-paris proceedings 153, land-book solutions 150, which is over 2500 cases. So by the end of the year, there will be another 300 or 400 items that will have to be processed. If we say it's about the New Prince and Choki, which numbers about 57,000 inhabitants and approximately the same objects, but also in other environments, not to say in Sainta, Backo Topoli, Vienna, etc., which may be a little bit and larger, we think municipal courts should survive in these environments, first of all because of all of this I've brought out. I think I've given enough arguments to vote in the day, and I ask you to think about it carefully, accept this amendment and vote for it. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8848	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Laslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I would like to join Mr. Nandor María, regarding his amendment that these basic courts be left in these municipal places and I would draw your attention, in principle, to the SRS, if you had to take much more care of the municipalities where the mixed composition is, or where some national minorities dominate. That's what the state of Serbia should do. There is no reason not to show any more understanding of such municipalities, because the state must also take care of certain things not only from a financial aspect, whether it is more expensive for the state or not; even if it is more expensive, it must meet these requirements and show that the state of Serbia is the state of all its citizens and that it takes special care of national minorities. You have already been warned by many MPs that this bill is simply amazing. It's like someone set you up. This is not just about opposition MPs, this is about, practically, MPs from all the political parties who talk about this bill not being good. The very fact that there are so many amendments goes in favor of you really having to take care of it and the best thing to do is to withdraw this law from the agenda, to do it much more seriously, much better. I think that's how you would really achieve the goals you intend to achieve. Among other things, I will try, within the time of this amendment, to warn in some way both citizens and MPs about the situation in which our country is involved, about the great global economic crisis that affects us as tsunamis, and our government and all those responsible are literally acting like in that story, "The village is burning and the grandmother is combing." I'll try to show it to you plastically, Madam Minister, to see what kind of situation our citizens are in, all citizens. Simply, this state has done nothing to protect them, it has left them to the mercy of the banks, and these are all foreign banks, not taking care of how much it will cost each citizen individually. I'll tell you what it might look like in one case: if you paid the VAT 45 days ago, which was 10,000 euros, in 45 days, because whoever credits you accounts for it in Swiss francs, in 45 days, 20% of the dinar has lost value compared to the euro. Look, if you gave 10,000 euros for VAT, you now have to pay back 12,000 euros. The bank doesn't care at all, the citizen gave it to the state, the state served 45 days and practically stole 2,000 euros from you. The same businessman, for example, has claims that he will charge within 30 to 60 days; from 30 to 60 days, however much they are, he lost at least 20% and lost 2,000 or 3,000 euros there. When you look, he won't have a chance to survive on the market. Our government is doing absolutely nothing. Not only is it not working, it's just amazing what kind of charlatans and matchmakers are in the seats of ministers, Prime Minister. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, on 26 October 2008, Mladjan Dinkic, world minister's best minister, received a world award, says "Serbia will profit from the global crisis. Serbia will earn money in the global financial crisis, and foreign investors will understand that it is more worth investing in ours than in other European countries." That's what Mladjan Dinkic claims. Look, please, what kind of man is in a place like this, he says, "Serbia will make money." I will show you an example that someone will earn, but not Serbian citizens, will earn on the back and back of Serbian citizens. The other charlatan, who shouts "let's go to Europe", says, "I expect the crisis to be resolved before these negative effects affect our country". That's what Djelic tells reporters at the first Niško Investment Forum. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the people, what kind of people and what charlatans lead the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. It's just that a man doesn't believe. He says, "The governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Radovan Jelasic, told Serbian citizens that they have no reason to worry about the current international economic crisis. The citizens have nothing to worry about, the cash is here. "Where's the cash? "The foreign exchange reserves are placed in first-class banks. "In what banks? Who's in control? "The liquidity of our banking sector and how it gives us reason to sleep peacefully. "Gentlemen, these are just some of the statements of people who are practically managing the entire financial system of our country. Regarding this global economic crisis, for which the whole world is looking for an answer, twenty of the most powerful countries in the world have met and have not, in practice, defined themselves, said "the need for this direction", but merely hinted at what should be done. Our people know everything, the solutions are there, there's nothing to worry about. Be careful what the secretary of the Serbian Banks Association Veroljub Dugalic, also from G 17, says: "The banking system of Serbia is extremely stable and will most likely not feel the effects of the global financial crisis. "My people, is this possible? Is it possible that people like this are in places like this? Be careful what the Prime Minister says: On October 1st, in an interview with Reuters, Cvetkovic stressed that a team was formed, led by Diana Dragutinovic and NBS Governor Radovan Jelasic, who will continue for the longer term, along with experts on the macro-economics, carefully analyse the development of the global crisis and its possible impact on Serbia's economy. The same day, they ask Radovan Jelasic about the team, but "Although Radovan Jelasic was asked what exactly the team would do, Governor Jelasic still did not know he was formed, nor that he was a member of the team." Is it possible that we have people like this and we have a government like this, in a country where today the euro is 90 and something, and you remember he was 74 and he was still going down because he's so stable, and in a country where citizens owe 344,89 billion on credit? They've lost 20% since the start of the crisis. That's 70 billion. Citizens are in charge of housing loans of 151 billion. You all know that all the housing loans are in Swiss francs; the Swiss is gone by almost 25%, it doesn't matter now, percentage up and down. That's 30 billion. This will be brought down to those who solve their housing problems with loans, and the government says – we will make money on this crisis. Now we're wondering who's gonna make money, and how's he gonna make money? I'm sure someone's gonna make some money. You see, you all know that in large trade chains from the moment you give the goods and while you charge that goods, it's at least 90 days. It's specifically related to the Delta system; you even have to, as they say, get rid of it, pay for it so you can even come in and supply the Delta. So 90 days is the minimum time when you can charge your goods. Watch out, "Delta" every day at the cash register largely collects (there are some checks, a card) paid money. Now ask the question - who on the foreign exchange market buys these euros that are placed for recovery, i.e. for the course of the dinar? How come 20, 30, 40 million euros are bought every day, who buys it? Look now: buy today, pay 90 days, sell it in 90 days, at least make 30%, at least. Monthly, as things stand, the dinar loses 10% of the euro, and compared to "Switzerland" slightly more. All this reflects on Serbian citizens. Those who lead Serbia to nothing say anything, we will earn. Look who's making money. These are these tycoons: Miskovic, Beko, in turn. Who gave them that? Who even made it possible for this number of monopolies to be found on the Serbian market? Unfortunately, there are those from Slovenia, Croatia. So how do you think they got here? How did they get here? How did the Mercator come in? You remember how "Merkator" was built in 2001, as it was all over expressly to obtain land. Be careful how: they get (then Svilanovic finished it, because his wife was one of the directors of Mercator) building land, with that paper they go to the bank, the bank gives them credit, they build the facility, and then they sell the space inside that facility or betray it, they repay the loan, and the facility stays for free. Who gave them that? In what way? For what? Who made it possible for them to buy huge agricultural land in Serbia, factories, everything they wanted? Who made that possible? You made it possible, you who want to go to Europe. You can't go anywhere. There's only one place you'll have to go, and these are those detention institutions, for the robbery you've committed in Serbia against Serbian citizens. You have to answer for that one day. That, Madam Minister, would be the biggest contribution, your contribution – if you would make sure that our judicial system is really working. You know, these laws may not be the best, but they are certainly good at condemning every criminal for every crime committed, but only on one condition – that judges judge impartially, without political pressure from ruling parties. Rest assured, order in our country would only be introduced very quickly if we freed the judges to judge by current laws, and then we will slowly reach these Europeans, once we clear these criminals out of our ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8850	The People's Messenger Lasslo Varga has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jankovic. You want to take down the Rules of Procedure? Excuse me, MP Lasslo Varga, the word has been delivered by MP Slobodan Maras, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8851	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Members of 225 and 226. I have a question for Mrs Malovic: is it true what we heard this morning from the Commissioner for Public Information, that your ministry is located in rooms, that you are using the premises assigned by the government's decision to his cabinet, or for his needs? That's what I'm asking you because in the best possible way (I'm not talking about you personally, but about the government's relationship) he's talking about who is the generator of absolute corruption in this country. We have to call it a real name. So the government is a generator of corruption, and I'm going to show that through a few examples, how it treats independent institutions. The institution of the Public Information Trustee is currently located in rooms that are not adequate and are not located in the premises assigned to it. There are currently two laws in force that regulate that matter; one law should cease to apply on the day we voted new here. However, the new law envisions that the law begins to operate on January 1st 2009. Furthermore, it will receive a 60% lower budget in 2009. No public undertaking fulfils its obligations under this law, so it does not provide information related to their business, or "touch" them to presentations in electronic form. The relation to the State Auditing Institution... This, of course, concerns not only this government; first of all, it is both Kostunica's governments, which have enabled such a system. So, in 2005, there was a Law on the State Auditing Institution, in 2007 it was formed; it was the 12th month of 2008 and the State Auditing Institution has no room and no rules of procedure on which it can operate. Now, a man himself said he was in such rooms that one part of those rooms had to be locked up, because it's inappropriate for anyone to enter those rooms and see them. As far as the Anti-Corruption Council is concerned, the pressures they are exposed to, that is, by the executive authority to protect an independent institution, since we are all about fighting corruption, are best said that the government has no intention of stopping corruption in this country. I underline once again the moment when public enterprises are controlled by the State Auditing Institution and when all of us and citizens are able to see the final accounts of public enterprises, in this way we will best curb corruption. Please, Mrs Malovic, answer whether this is the way you think it is and how you think the issue is solved when it comes to the Commissioner for Public Information, because I think it is very important that he operates in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8852	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8853	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in relation to what you have now presented, I will answer you in relation to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. It is true that the Commissioner for Public Information is a reserved room where the Ministry of Justice is presently located. Now let me explain to you how that happened. More than a year ago for the distribution of business space, the Property Directorate, as a proposing, did not take care that the Ministry of Justice did not have sufficient facilities and premises in which the Justice Department had assigned information to the Commissioner of Public Matters. I will certainly respect the government's decision, and in more conversations with the Commissioner for Information than publicly relevant, we have pointed out. He knows about it. The Department of Justice has been assigned other premises in which these services will be located. Currently, the move cannot be made, given that the adaptation works in these rooms are at stake. With all my authority, I advocate that these works be completed as quickly as possible so as not to allow the Commissioner to receive these rooms and to do his job adequately. I told him that more than once in a direct conversation, and that's what I'm going to do in the future. By the way, I'm just going to point out that when this decision was taken, it wasn't taken care of by the Ministry of Justice covering, so collectively to say, 517 bodies in the Republic of Serbia. I will also extend my response to a work that can be indirectly applied to the Ministry of Justice, given that the Ministry of Justice has been the Proposer of the Anti-Corruption Act – we are actively working on providing a space in which the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is scheduled to work since 1 January 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8854	National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8855	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, obviously I have not been best interpreted, but you are one of the few ministers, or ministers who truly express respect for this House and for this reason I express respect for what you have said. I really believe that this is so, that you really intend to do everything in your power to respect both the government's decision and the law, but I wanted to say something else. This is about a system that was established at the time of Kostunica's first government, and others, which is now existing, which is that there are no laws in this country that allow the control of budgets in the right way, as well as the control of public enterprises. Why is that, we all know that. Because public enterprises are simply a pocket out of which money is being drawn for certain political parties in power. All the time we've been trying to get to just one key thing, so we're not talking about anyone in particular -- the point is that independent institutions are allowed to work. You said earlier that you would do anything to adapt the rooms, that they would enter etc. And that it's the same thing about the Agency. But you see, we have a state audit institution that was formed in 2007, here we voted for them. In December 2008, they have no rooms, no rules of procedure, and their main thing is to control how the budget is spent, or what public enterprises are doing, to control their final accounts. I am deeply convinced that there is a strategy behind this not to control it. You all know, we want you and we to go as quickly as possible towards the European Union and European integration, the European Commission's main concern is the high degree of corruption. It's being treated by the public, it's being treated for information. I'm undermining, no public enterprise fulfils its law of intended obligation to put information about its business on an electronic website so that we can see how it's being spent. We have a situation that private audit houses, so not those that should be in charge. The state audit institution, but someone else, is auditing the business of public enterprises. We all know how to figure it out. We want someone who just wants to... Because all these companies are practically state-owned. They are public enterprises, but these are the enterprises of the citizens of this country. We really want in every way possible... I believe you have a good will, but I am deeply convinced that it is not enough for your good will, because behind this is a strategy and a system not to control anything that causes corruption. It depends most on the ruling majority, indeed. In what context? In the context that you should support this, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution as soon as possible. With regard to what Mrs. Dejanovic said two days ago, be careful, we could adopt the rules of procedure five months ago so that they could work. Now in February, the final accounts, who's going to do it? (President: Please, People's Parliament, you did not list the member you are calling on. ) These are members of 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8856	There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8857	Mrs. Komic, I'm calling for article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think you're mistaking the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now I'll explain it to you. I'll do my best to convince you. I'm taking a huge risk of being able to convince you, but I'd ask you to listen to my reasons. What's this about? Ms. Malovic is a representative of the government, as proposing a large number of draft laws that were now and will likely be on the agenda. We give great recognition and respect to Mrs Malovic because she, unlike those older ministers, with a longer internship, shows loyalty to her work. She is present, she is active in the debate, and I think it is necessary to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Mrs Malovic should not be placed, I apologize for using the words, in the same basket with Dinkic, Djelic, Milosavljevic, Ciplic, and that I do not order further, etc. That's what we respect. However, I must, Mrs Comic, draw attention to you that Mrs Malovic is the most powerful woman in the country. You may not be sufficiently focused on that plan, but let me explain to you what your power is: you signed, Karadzic is in The Hague. I told you here on Monday about what the D.A.'s office should do, so I also mentioned my example of some investigation that's been going on for eight years. They brought me charges last night. They brought charges last night, I was on TV, the kids were home. I didn't come here, so you don't get me wrong, just because you're a powerful woman, I wanted to ask you – tell that court delivery officer to come to the Assembly to sign his receipt, because this has to be delivered personally, so there won't be any formal interference. You as a powerful woman... It was your Cosic or Homen or those who watch. Let's get him out of the Second District Court a subpoenaer. He came to my house at 8.15 last night when I was on TV. This has to be taken personally, given to the defendant, you know, the defendant, has to be delivered personally. Let him come while I'm here in the Assembly to sign it, to run the deadlines; 50 lawyers will be. Oh, Hope the cook got a blouse. Never mind, ma'am. It doesn't matter, it's just, since you're such a powerful woman, you proved it -- I said on Monday, the indictment came on Tuesday -- that I knew before, so let me ask you about the indictment. No, I'm not saying the minister wrote the charges. I'm just talking about actual power. You see, when Batic was a minister, he planted an assistant to sign for Milosevic. This is where Dusan Petrovic will not be a minister, he will plant you and you are the most powerful woman. I know you're surprised, too, but you're practically powerful. So, let the subpoenaer come to me to sign it, so that we can run the legal deadlines. I inform the public that I have never called for immunity, nor will I call for immunity. (President: You spoke for three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8858	There's no damage to article 27. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, and I formally ask the Prime Minister: why does it allow parts of the government, or the ministries, to be fully placed in the service of political parties? You who claim to want to go to Europe and that you are for European values are acting the same as the communists in 1945, except you physically do not liquidate your political opponents. Otherwise, it's... You've been trying to figure that out, too. As soon as you came to power, you demonstrated to political opponents. I know there are many in your ranks who were defeated at the eighth session, so now they've come to power. They can't even apply different methods, they can't apply those that they used to use when they were the communist party that they were members of, the exact same method. I remember, the first thing that Mickey Mouse did when he came on his aunt's couch was he sent a team of retired officers to the ministries where they were Serbian radicals to roll over everything alive to find anything and not press charges. They found nothing, but it did not prevent them from raising criminal charges just to rock political opponents and to tell Serbian citizens -- here, they abused the situation, and to reverse all the affairs that began to shake them as soon as you came to power. Of these charges, literally none of them experienced trial because they were false. But you don't mind asking any MPs who have been accused in such a way whether or not they are being protected by immunity. Many ended up, lost their lives, couldn't prove it. We were lucky to be able to prove that we were completely clean, and you proved in the worst way possible that you belonged to non-trograde forces, not to the XIX century, but to the time of total absoluteism when everything that was desired was done, because you thought you'd stay 50 years, that you would rule whatever you wanted, and that you would succeed and physically destroy your political opponents. But the slow weather is going in the direction it's supposed to go, everything's going to have to come to light, and you're going to have to answer for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8860	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and Marina Ragush's national envoy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it would be good if Mrs. Malovic were the most powerful woman in Serbia. That would probably mean we're a state-of-the-art. Yesterday at the Flash, you could read that it was Sonja Licht and that it's mostly the NGO sector, which I don't think is good. First of all, I called to ask a question, of course according to the Rules of Procedure. Do you know, Madam Minister, has the Property Directorate, which is of course a story for itself, ever been able to write down all state property? So do we know what our state property is? I believe that you too are directed that the state of Serbia does not know, neither do local self-government, and that it is a mess with the list of these assets, which, of course, is not good. The fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency or the State Audit Office has no space, it's so funny that even small children don't believe in such a thing. Even if there is no space in the current institutions of the state, and certainly there is, we know that in the Federation Palace, business space is issued to some firms, rather than used for the needs of the state. The state has so much money that it can rent space. We know how much of the National Savings Bank space has been sold out, instead of being saved in a government fund for these needs, and you knew what new agencies you were going to build by law, which you're going to have to give an adequate space for. We're convinced it's not an accident, it's just an excuse. But I'm asking you, how are local self-governments going to get their final accounts if they don't have a state auditor to do the job and sign on those final accounts? We know we haven't seen the final bill since 2000. So you don't care, because the state auditor doesn't have to audit and control the state budget. But Serbian citizens are also interested in finding out through their representatives in parliament that their money has been spent. We haven't been able to find out for years, and we can't pass it on to the citizens. Therefore, stop pointing to common sense and us here in Parliament and the citizens of Serbia. Of course, I'm not saying that to you as a resolute minister, but to the government at all. When we passed these laws that formed these institutions, it was said -- no new budget needed for their work. It takes resources, space, that must first of all be provided in advance, and then the state audit house, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and many others who should be able to combat such criminal affairs as a result of this particular reporting and lack of control by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8862	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8863	So, I report on the basis of Rules 225 and 226, and this possibility, of course, I draw from Rule 124. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative act – the government is responsible for the National Assembly for the politics of the Republic of Serbia. Today we have information that in the next period in Serbia, there are 25,000 workers waiting. Several hundred workers from various companies in Serbia have been returned from work to their homes, as employers, calling for a global economic crisis, have fired them. Cancel the showers in Leskovec, Paracino, Priboj, Kruševci, Kragujevac. According to Dusan Puace, the president of the regional Chamber of Commerce in Kragujevac, there are 276 export-dependent enterprises in the 51st municipality in Serbia. There were 43,000 employees, and the fate of 25,000 workers is very uncertain. What has really come as a surprise to us lately is the concrete and truly inexorable official data from the state of Serbia, the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which said, among other things, that in the second quarter of 2008 in the Republic of Serbia, the average monthly available funding per household amounted to 41,044 dinars. What's more than frantic here is that average profit can't keep track of what's going on, and that's the price rise for a little bit. Among other things, comparisons, based on data from the Republic Statistics Institute of Serbia, rose slightly by 7.9% in November 2008 compared to December 2007. In November 2008, life costs increased by 8.8% compared to December 2007. The real value of earnings was only increased by 4.9% compared to last year. The Serbian Radical Party is demanding a concrete explanation from the Prime Minister that the Serbian government sees the solution to the coming crisis, in which way it will face Serbian citizens and say how they can expect to solve their existential problems next year. What is really frantic, and I am only referring to the presentation of my colleagues, Maras, is that this morning we had the opportunity to hear on one of the Serbian televisions Mr. Sabic actually talking about Serbia's protecting organised crime. I apologize for this overrun, just to finish the thought. Protect him in such a way that we do not actually have a final account, which we do not have transparent information on how all citizens spend their funds through taxes and contributions from the Serbian state. So what is a concrete requirement of the SRS parliamentary club is that, as soon as possible, we are supplied with the final account of all public enterprises in the state of Serbia, as well as to receive a final report from the State Auditing Institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8864	Ambassador Slobodan Maras wishes to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and is given the floor under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8865	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, Mrs Comic, please do not interrupt me, as this has already happened once when it comes to members of the Rules of Procedure that I will advertise. I'm advocating Article 27 as a member of the 200th Rules of Procedure. Ten days ago, I asked the Prime Minister a question. As it says in our Rules of Procedure, it was necessary for me to receive a written reply within eight days, since he was unable to give it to me orally. Also, in case it is a state, official or military secret, the prime minister could suggest that I listen to the answer without public presence. The question was whether it was true that about 50 directors in NIS have management allowances that they receive every month and that have a range of two to seven average gross earnings. I guess, in line with what we knew the other day, it's a business secret, but I don't understand how a company owned by a state, a majority owner or a 100% owner, can't give us information on how much money they pay in that company. The fact that it's not a public company, we all know how it happened. I also asked whether it was true that Srdjan Bosnjakovic, one of the former NIS leaders, who was asked by Vojislav Kostunica, and four other persons (also from the DSS) signed management contracts to get around 240,000 euros in case of cancellation, or termination of the employer's employment relationship. I ask you, as chairman, to act in this Rules of Procedure, to ask the Prime Minister to give us answers to these questions. In addition to finding out from the public yesterday that whoever sat in the chair of the Board of Directors of the NIS a month ago, as well as from Director Milos Saramandic, will do everything possible to remove the mark of the business secret at the first session of the Management Board and to announce to the public what the salaries are, I underline that it is important to find out how many management supplements are, as they dramatically exceed the salaries they receive. Is it also true that these five people I spoke of, former directors from the NIS, the chairman of the boards of directors, after they rotated over time, signed management contracts and that there is a clause that if a working relationship with them is broken up, they receive 240,000 euros each? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8866	There's no violation of article 27, MP. If you have asked for information by referring to members 225 and 226, I refer you to the Rules of Procedure, where you will clearly see that there are no deadlines for such a type of request for information. If a written parliamentary question is asked, refer to the article. 197, 198, 199, then I will ask you to inform the President, or me, that the parliamentary question has been sent in writing to the Prime Minister. In that case, you may call upon yourself, from the moment the deadlines begin, that I have knowledge that you have asked a written parliamentary question, on the basis of Article 199, whether or not the government has broken the eight-day deadline. For requests for information under Art. 225 and 226 are not prescribed. The use of these members is a matter of our silent agreement and will be continued. People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). There's no damage to article 27 or to the part where I interrupted you in your previous report. In three minutes and ten seconds, I asked you to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured and I always do that with every speaker in the third minute, waiting to say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8867	Pursuant to Articles 225 and 226 and Articles 104. It is about the rapid decline of the standards of all citizens of the Serbian state, daily. What is unacceptable and politically incorrect, ultimately human beings are completely difficult to digest, is that the opposition, when it tries to help, conditionally, overcome the crisis that is in the announcement, also the decline of economic activity, recession, will win the war by the ruling coalition and worst possible insults because, among other things, it comes out and presents the paradigm of organised crime and state corruption through the illegal business of a public enterprise such as "Nikola Tesla" Airport. In doing so, this paradigm has only served us to really require the final accounts of all public enterprises, because you will allow it to be completely inhumane that in the system of the emerging crisis, when fundamental human rights and freedoms are violated by all citizens of the Serbian state, someone pays bonuses that go up to 11.5 000 euros. One logical question arises: What if the opposition hadn't brought up the problem? So the government would continue to act in that same direction. It is totally unacceptable and Serbian citizens should know that what they are taken through taxes is full of pockets of certain party oligarchs. Of course, it is not only Mr. Kristo's problem here, of course, that all public enterprises are the problem, and of course there is a written part of the opposition that is really going to investigate until it gets the final final account of all public enterprises, until this state realizes that what they are is the control mechanisms for the availability of money to Serbian citizens must be shown in a transparent manner. Until it's done we don't have a responsible state, we have organized crime, we don't have a rule of law, the police can't do their job because the state says the state audit institution can't do what it's formed for because there's no material-technical assumptions. It's the ruling majority's relationship to what she promised in the election campaign. Finally, it is the government's relationship in Serbia, a complete ossion, according to the entire human rights corpus of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in the first place as regards their existence, social security and what is called the right to life worthy of man. This is how you prove it in action. We won't calm down, I apologize for 20 and change seconds, until we get the final accounts, where these citizens' money... (President: Three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... and all of us in this state of Serbia are going. Of course we'll use, in addition to this mechanism, and all international mechanisms that follow well where donations and all foreign money end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8868	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him the Messenger of the people, Marash Slobodan, the messenger of the people, Laszlo Varga, and the messenger of the people, Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I use my right based on members of the 225 and 226 Rules of Procedure to inform the public and ask for a reaction, with regard to, least of all, the concern the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija has shown towards Serbian living in the southern Serbian province. What you will hear is no surprise if we bear in mind that Prime Minister Bajram Rexhepi, chairman of the Democratic Party's Regional Committee, Goran Bogdanovic. What's this about? On 13 November, the minister made a decision approving the purchase of heating wood for the needs of the endangered population, return communities, isolated Serb sites, persons located in container settlements for collective housing, as well as monasty monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, and in line with the plan to provide assistance in the form of heated wood to school institutions, monasteries and endangered population in Kosovo and Metohija during the winter period 2008/2009. A year, which forms an integral part of the decision I have here. That plan was drawn up on the basis of the requirements of municipalities and school administrations in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija, and implies supply and delivery to end-users a total of 13,443 spatial metres of heating wood. Furthermore, the decision states that the procurement will take place by emergency procedure, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, taking into account the emerging winter and urgency of the needs of end-users. If we hadn't set foot in December, it'd probably be funny, if it wasn't sad to have any winter plans coming up at this time. But that's not the end of it. Just three days after this decision, a new decision comes with fax, or recommendation from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, in which the business of public procurement of heating wood is transferred to local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. So, in the middle of November, winter is already in progress. What is the situation of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija now? The winter is taking a lot of time, local self-governments are forced to question public procurement, but it is an additional problem that Serbs do not have enough opportunities to respect the required quantities, so they are forced to be supplied by Albanians, while they tie the price to the euro, which is growing daily. The money that is otherwise intended for these needs from the Ministry until today has not yet been paid into account. The result of all this is that in some schools due to the cold they stopped teaching. I wonder only how far can this insolence and insolence of power go towards our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija? With this in mind, we can only imagine what will bring about the deployment of the Eulex mission, which is so packed nicely in a package of yellow bows, and the fact is that the Committee on Kosovo and the Metohija of the Serbian Parliament does not function practically from the very act of constitution. Just to let the public know that those who are in the media the biggest opponents of Boris Tadic's regime yesterday at the SO Mladenovac session, with all their heart, voted that the president of the municipal assembly be from the Democratic Party and his deputy from G17.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8870	National MP, you have not made a request for any information, and by Articles 225 and 226, you cannot give notice but must make at least a request for some information. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slobodan Maras called.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8871	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure done by you, Mrs Comic, Member 27 and Article 104. Now I'm going to quote and show you how. Article 198, to which you have called, in paragraph 4, says that the parliamentary question is asked in writing or verbally. Article 199 says parliamentary questions are normally asked when the Assembly ends work on all points of the agenda, etc.; a parliamentary group may submit a proposal to hold those sessions once a month. You know very well that no proposal submitted by the opposition parliamentary group can get the support of the ruling majority and cannot be voted and therefore, in two terms, as far as I am an MP, we have only had such a session once. You said there was no time limit when the minister, prime minister or the one asked the question. In article 200, he said, "The government's oral question, i.e. the minister, must respond orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall explain it immediately and send the reply to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. "Mrs. Comic, if we weren't dealing with issues that aren't on the agenda right now... Although the question I asked was addressed to Mrs Malovic, and it is about everything that has been the topic in Serbia for the last two weeks, intensively, and it is the work of public enterprises. If we of the opposition did not deal with these issues, if we of the LDP would not ask such a question, of course nothing would have been processed, nor would there be an attempt at a solution, etc. I agree that cutting wages in public enterprises is just a drop in the sea and that nothing will solve it. The problem is, the system's out of order. That's why, Mrs. Comic, I'm asking these questions, which is why I'm telling you that you're wrong when you say that the government doesn't have a deadline to answer, that I have to ask the questions in writing. I would like to ask the issue to the ministers in writing and here, however, except for Mrs. Malovic, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, the ministers are coming to defend topics and laws for which they are not responsible. We'll have a session where they'll come, hopefully, all those who need to sit here, which are ministers, prime minister, and we'll ask them a lot of questions. So I use this pay phone to ask, in accordance with the members of 225 and 226, a question that is current, which is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, which means life. Several times, our president and LDP MPs spoke of it. The essence of the congregation is that it deals with life, of course with laws, but with life. More of us tried to explain that in the economic crisis that affected the whole world, we were first acting like owls, sticking our head in the sand and misleading the people. That's why we ask these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8872	Members of the 27th and 104th Members of the People's Parliament are not injured. I refer you to a more careful reading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the manner in which you express your infringements of the Rules of Procedure may be considered a violation of Rule 104 by disdaining the National Assembly and insulting the MPs, and I ask you to read carefully part of the Rules of Procedure in which the members of the 225 and 226, in the chapters of the Law and the duties of the Members of the People's Parliaments. When you are called upon to receive the word over the order, and on the basis of Article 100(1), the practice, the unwritten rules and the silent agreement is that each chairman gives the floor, allowing the MP to appeal to the members of 225 and 226. The articles you have quoted are in the section of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Parliament. Neither are parliamentary issues on the agenda, nor are the session under way, and the debate is currently in particular, can regulate members who regulate parliamentary issues. None of the rights used so far for members of the 225 and 226 were in force during the session when members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - Parliamentary Affairs can apply. Therefore, I repeat that article 27 is not injured. I was obliged to give you instructions. If you have referred to a written parliamentary question and if the president of the National Assembly or the chairman of the National Assembly has knowledge of it, then you will either receive an answer within eight days or the one to whom you have referred the question will have to be asked by the president of the National Assembly or the chairman to explain why he did not give an answer to a written parliamentary question within eight days to the designated Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Any kind of attempt to make an objection to the chair that, in relation to the content of what is being said, amending the provisions of the Rules of Procedure is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and non-application of Rule 27. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. He doesn't want to talk. The People's MP Milorad Buha wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I reported to the members of 225 and 226 and I request information from the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, namely: 1) the amount of net earnings per worker in the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia in 2008; 2) the amount of net earnings for the 9th, 10th and 11th months 2008 for the Director, Deputy Director, Executive Director, Director of the Centre, Director of the Sector, Director of Regional Offices and Managers of the Department; 3) the amount of net earnings in the Privatisation Agency for 2006, 2007 and 11 months for 2008; 4) the fees and bonuses received by regional management officials at the Privatisation Agency; 5) the amount of the commission for the 2006, 2007 and 2008 (for the public, only 5%, according to the 2005 decision, the management of the management of the management of the management of the management of the management of the management of the management of the Privatage Agency; the total amount of the total amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the assets, 2007, 2007, 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8874	Thank you. Miss Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8875	On the basis of Articles 225 and 226, and on the basis of Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – under its election rights, the National Assembly, among other things, elects the Government and oversees its work. Mr. Chairman, I would really like the stenogram of this exhibition to go spotlessly to the proper service and I ask the Ministry of Finance to deliver final accounts of all public enterprises of the Serbian state before the budget debate. That's one thing, because as MPs, we won't be able to uninformedly discuss the proposed 2009 budget. The second, very important thing is, in fact, two facts that have drawn our attention to us, because of the public in Serbia, and of course because of the explanations the SRS is asking for from all relevant and resolute ministers. According to "Dece Vela," George Bush said, among other things, that's what we had a chance to hear last night, that what he regretted most is that he launched an invasion of Iraq on the basis of the wrong intelligence data. It's one of the ugliest facts that's definitely painted the world we've ever followed, but that will find us next year, for the next reason. We Serbian radicals here were the first to draw attention to the writing and statements by Finnish forensicswoman Mrs. Helen Ranta that she actually forged the report under the pressure of Mr. Walker. Based on this falsified report, anti-legal aggression against the SRJ was committed. A further conflict of this -- a Cypriot state was created, based on Shipatarian terrorism. What's also very important to say are the findings of GNI, Mr. Halimi, lately... I see you're commenting, and I'd like to hear about this pay phone about what you have to say on that subject. Members of the German intelligence service were in Kosovo's territory; on November 14th, they were arrested because they were found to have thrown an explosive device into the United Nations premises. However, it would not be as terrible as what we as a state did not know that GNI members were located in a territory that is Serbian territory and an integral part of the state of Serbia. What's even scarier, and it's carrying "Decree Great," it's that there really was an affair on the subject in Germany. I hope that you will allow me to go beyond a few dozen seconds just to complete this very important information for the entire public in the state of Serbia, and I think that it will benefit the authorities, who will probably remember to react without delay to this. BND members have come up with fantastic knowledge of organised crime that directly signs Hashim Thaci. The real diplomatic and intelligence scandal has turned out to be due to a secret GNI report that speaks of organised crime in the territory of what is the Cypriot terrorist state. What we as the SRS are now demanding from the Security and Information Agency, the Ministry of the Interior and Prime Minister of the Serbian Government is that, as soon as possible, the Serbian Parliament and the public in Serbia will be familiar with the GNI reports, given that Germany has a top theme within its parliamentary commission and studies of intelligence services – of course, the GNI's knowledge of Kosovo and Metohija. We hope to get some information on this subject soon. If we don't get it, we're really not going to back down, we're going to write directly to the Bundestag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8876	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8877	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am sorry that Mrs Comic left the presidency post because I wanted to ask her to give me a warning if she felt that I had abused the assembly speaker or that I had violated the dignity of this assembly. She didn't, unfortunately, do it. In her address to me, in the three and a half minutes she tried to abuse the Rules of Procedure to abuse the place where she was sitting, she tried to explain to me that there was an unwritten rule, the practice of using members of Rules of Procedure 225 and 226, but she did not answer me how it was possible for MPs to get answers from the government, to get answers from the competent ministers on the basis of such questions, orally asked questions from this assembly speaker. Is that some practice? Is that some kind of unwritten rule I'm referring to? So I have repeatedly received answers from ministers to questions raised from a congregation pay phone. Mrs. Comic tried to convince me that it was impossible and that only a written way to get a written answer, but I think there is something completely different behind it, that there is an inability to answer questions behind it. Mrs. Ljiljak could go out for this pay phone sometime, instead of throwing her way out of her seat. Mrs. Ljiljak, it is not my fault that your representative yesterday stated that the disclosure of salary levels in a company called NIS, whose founder of the state, would endanger the privatisation of the same. If you want to talk, come here and explain when the NIS privatisation was done, since there is no NIS privatisation, it's a "tatisation". That's one thing. Another thing, in what way can it jeopardize the so-called privatisation of NIS? It can only endanger someone's position, someone's interests, and someone's abuse to hide. If these questions are too difficult for the NIS to answer, if these questions are not appropriate in this context that I should not give an answer to these questions, I accept this and I will try in another way to come to those answers, but to draw attention to the fact that I am abused by the Assembly, that I am abused by the Rules of Procedure, that I am destroying the dignity of the Assembly because I adhere to the practice that is in force in this Chamber, which is that the ministers answer the oral questions asked by the MPs, I think it is extremely inappropriate then. I'm undermining again, I'm sorry that Mrs. Comic isn't here, but she'd certainly be able to explain what she wanted to me within six minutes, but I hope she'd give me a warning, since she hinted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8878	The word is Mr. Buha, who advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am obliged to meet the public of Serbia that today a delegation of the SRS and the Government of Republika Srpska will visit the Association of Missing and Kidnapped Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija where we will jointly discuss the activities of this association, the government and the SRS. We must show dissatisfaction with the work of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and point out the huge problems of internally displaced people from Kosovo and Metohija and exiled and expelled Serbs from Republika Srpska. The head of the SRS delegation will be Dragan Todorovic. We must point out to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia that the primary task of the state authorities is to return internally displaced persons to Kosovo and Metohija. Without it, there is no peace in these areas. I guess it's natural and normal for people who are exiled, driven by the genocide policy of the Ship State to return to the premises from where they were expelled. The same situation with exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. A few days ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision to draw up a lawsuit against Croatia. The Ministry of Justice will participate in the activities of making, writing and suing. I am using this opportunity to hand over certain materials that the Government of Republika Srpska has, which are related to historical roots of genocide, rights (collective, individual, property and social) that are taken away from Serbs and which are not returning, and on the other hand, the direction of government that will, in any case, be a good basis for the prosecution. On the other hand, the government has some information from World War II. Few that the state authority has this kind of information. It is about documentation collected by Italian units in the area of Dalmatia, Like, Herzegovina. These are their data processed and the documentation they have on Ustasha crimes in this area. I'm handing this over to the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8880	The word is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8881	I report on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, which clearly define the use of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Serbia, not abuse, as the ruling majority through the media is trying to present it. As long as the members of the Rules of Procedure allow us to have certain notices, reports, analyses and finds to carry out our parliamentary duties more successfully, to fulfil the mandate entrusted to us in the elections, so far it is the use of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So we do not have the necessary information or the necessary analysis for the upcoming, perhaps even the most important debate for the daily life of citizens – as regards the 2009 draft budget. That's one thing. So we expect a spotless final account of all public enterprises in Serbia so that we know transparently where this money that is taken daily by all citizens is actually taking us. The second thing that is very important is the notification of all intelligence structures, both police and military, in the state of Serbia, regarding the next GNI findings. Therefore, the arrest of Kosovo agents has been linked predominantly to the fact that the GNI has, in recent years, repeatedly in its reports pointed to the dangerous nature of political authorities and organised crime in Kosovo, unlike the British and US intelligence services. A confidential GNI study conducted under the orders of the German army contained heavy accusations brought on the account of a number of current politicians, including Prime Minister Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Javid Haliti. So what it reminds itself of, and reminds all the leading papers that can be said to be regimeal, is the following, and it conveys "Decree Great": that at the time of NATO bombing, the West was literally put aside by KLA guerrillas, and it was not only a noble movement for national liberation. This is, you could say, the official position of Germany in the last few days. So the authors of the text add that the leaders of the movement came from part of a dark mile and were acting according to the rules of that dark mile. Just because Hashim Thaci and his environment know what BND knows about them and behave so offensively. The West has enthroned them. That position the West can't take away from them, and it doesn't give itself a critical look. "Zidjjce Kitung" also lists the amount of money Germany has given for independent Kosovo in part of Serbia's sovereign territory, and says, among other things, - 280m euros in direct assistance. (President: Time.) I apologize for this excess, but I'd like to logically complete this announcement. We expect to present a confidential GNI report as soon as possible, at least in the part where we would eventually close the session for the public. We also expect from the Serbian Ministry of Justice, from here present Madam Minister, certain timely moves because this directly concerns the security of all citizens, preventing the return of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, and in the end, because of the spilling of terrorism into continuity, the security of all of us. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8882	The word is Mr. Skrbic, advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8883	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, my colleague Milorad Buha has just come up with a topic and asked the Agency for Privatisation. I'm also reporting under Article 225. I'm looking for information, and it's about the current situation and the question of the consulting house of Citadel. The current issue is the flag, that this house has been paid for the sale of two contracts in the last seven years (this house is not currently engaged, it exists for a number of years as the government's only consulting house) for a fee: according to a 2002 contract of 980,000 euros, and the second one should be paid about 700,000 euros. Otherwise, it was one of the first agreements on consulting services in the privatisation process, and since then, the house has been constantly extending as the only consulting house on Serbia's premises. I wonder if there are any other houses that haven't had a chance to show up with their experts and provide these services. I have a record in front of me, of course, of course, a lot of paperwork and paper coming into the SRS these days, so I'm going to say that there are two kinds of rewards when it comes to consulting houses. For example, for her services, Citadel received a fixed reward and compensation only in the flag process, while the success of the job after the completion of the purchase contracts was expressed in percentages. That's the second part of the prize. I wonder and ask for an answer from the RES, I think it's the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, where the Agency's Directorate, which is not under the control of this assembly... We all know the Assembly can control the ministries, but the agencies can't, and when the agency hires some consulting houses, they're the only ones we can't control. I'll list examples and ask how much this house has earned from the brokerage services only at the flag. Joint investment of the Car Flag - 710 million, privatisation of the Nis - 518 million, privatisation of DIN Vranje - 87 million, a consultant in the purchase of Zravlje company - 48m euros, I speak all in euros. Then, a shopping adviser for Polet Becej, Toza Markovic - 43 million, purchase of Jelen Dola - 7.5 million, privatisation of Vojvodjanska Banka - 425 million, privatisation of Pannonian Banka - 140 million, Niske - 14 million, privatisation of the company "Mobtel" - 1.513,000,000, also there was a consulting house. This is a total of 5,648,500,000 dinars. Given that they have two types of reward, fixed and percentage, I'm asking how much that house has earned and is it the only one capable of doing it? How much did she make? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8884	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Filip Stojanovic, then by the MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Ms Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8885	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of members 225 and 226, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic for a notice and a response – when this assembly changed its position and gave mandate to others to carry out secret and ultimate orders for everything that has been happening these days in the UN Security Council? So, what we should have discussed first in this high house and what our entire public should have known, not that we are being informed by listening to our semi-truth and semi-information media. Does the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly intend to schedule a session of this house to conduct a debate on Kosovo and Metohija? You also refused to discuss the motion for a resolution tabled by a group of MPs and signed by the SRS MPs, related to Kosovo and Metohija. Even today, this has not been attended by a congregation debate. Why and for what reason, we MPs are not familiar and we are not informed. As you can see, for nine months, Eulex has been implemented on our entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we MPs have a chance to read through Secretary General Ban Ki Moon's report, but we haven't had a chance to get information here, in this home, through the Committee on Foreign Affairs or to hear from Mr. Vuk Jeremic, our minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is worst for us, as Mr Ban Ki Moon recommended to us, is Annex 1 which contains four points, signed in the government of Kosovo, in Pristina on 18 November 2008, and essentially contains Marty Ahtisaari's plan and a request for the legalisation of Eulex. In this way, the Serbian government recognises Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I don't think this government is really up to solving these big and national problems. In Kosovo and Metohija, major problems have been accumulated, out of property-legal jobs, many companies have been sold out, and the state cannot watch white-world thieves rob, kidnap, counterfeit and steal under UNMIK, KFOR and Eulexa's patronage. I request urgent notice, information or response from the Serbian government and Mr Vuk Jeremic, Serbian Foreign Minister. I think this is a really alarming situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8886	Thank you, too. That was accurate. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8887	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of article 46. The Rules of Procedure to confirm the quite justified efforts of counterpart Marine Ragush, who spoke earlier on about the German GNI report, the fact that not only "The Wall of Caitung" but also the parliamentary group of the German parliament to control the work of the security service three days ago gave a report on the fact that it was both unequivocal and the unequivocally connectedness of the Shipatarian bandits and terrorists, depicted in Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj and the rest so-called. The leadership of the Cypriot state of Kosovo in our country, with organised crime, terrorist actions and a threat to the security of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, which he now spoke of in his presentation and counterpart Filip Stojanovic. Comrade Novaković, I call on article 46. The Rules of Procedure and I demand that as soon as tomorrow, no later than Friday, appear at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and on the basis of the Security and Information Agency Act, which says BIA Director is obliged... It is this Sasa Vukadinovic, when DS, who did not appear at the Committee session on July 28th, before Dr Radovan Karadzic was taken to The Hague, so he did not give us notice until today, except what Interior Minister Ivica Dacic said -- that some security forces arrested Dr Karadzic. So Vukadinovic did not show up, although it was his obligation, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Regardless of which of us is a member of the Defence and Security Committee and who is not, the Security and Information Agency Act is clear: the report is submitted to the National Assembly. That's why I invite you, since the President of Parliament is not here, but it is necessary and I ask you to forward this request to the Security and Information Agency, Vukadinovic himself... I refer to this as a folk MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, in order to discuss these issues which and as regards the security of every citizen, not only in the area we call enclaves, which are in fact Serbian municipalities and the entire area of Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia, but because of the tendency that these terrorist activities and everything else are being poured over into this border so-called border. administrative areas with our southern province, and then to the rest of the country. A security-intelligence agency in the performance of its work must ask all state authorities for the necessary information, but also to apply all methods and, as the law says, measures and actions, as well as appropriate operational and technical means to provide data collection... (President: 40 seconds. )......................................................................................................... and notices (quote of the Law, so I ask you not to take it away from me at the time), to remove and prevent actions aimed at undermining or destroying the Constitution of the established order of the Republic of Serbia, endangering security in the country, and to take other necessary measures and actions under the laws and regulations in accordance with the law adopted. I demand of you as chairman of this day (through the secretary or you personally) give me an announcement as to what kind of response you received from the director of the BIA. I repeat, it is his legal obligation to appear in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible and report his work to us. What all the world media and parliament of Germany know is that we should know... (President: One minute and a half, please. )......................................................................................................... And to be familiar with all the details. Thank you, I'm sorry, but the minute he went to quote the Security and Information Agency Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8888	I ask the professional service to send a stenogram to the Director of the Security and Information Agency and to the chairman of the Security Committee, with the presentation of the People's Parliament, Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8889	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to the members of 225 and 226 to continue what I didn't finish and to better understand both the public and everyone present. When I was talking about a 5,648,500,000 figure that the consultant house is Citadel... As much as she's earned, that's what I'm interested in. Something very important to say is also related to the Privatisation Agency. I wonder if when choosing this consulting house for everything I have just stated is a respected law on public procurement that should have been called a tender, if a consulting house is already needed, and selects the most favourable bidder? Or has the Agency targeted this, in agreement with ruling policy or some other powermakers, starting with locals, local administrations and so forth? It is known that countless times the Agency has given its opinion on individual cases of procurement that absolutely violates the law. Why am I saying this? I have 15 more cases ahead of me where this same agency "Citadel" participated as a consultant of the Privatisation Agency or a sales adviser where the value of the project was unpublished, which is: sales advisor, together with Rothschild company, Government of the Republic of Serbia, sales of JAT, Telenor Norway - the value of the project unpublished, is the purchase of Telekom Srpske, along with Deutschebank. Well, a consultant in RTB Bor shopping, a consultant in the purchase of Coal Mines Pljevlja, a Boksita Niksic, a company called Danon's France, in the purchase of Delta Bank together with another company, the Inteza Bank, a consultant in the purchase of the National Savings Bank, a consultant in the purchase of FAM Kruševac, a consultant in the purchase of NIS along with another company, Telenor's Norway. For everything I read, the value is unpublished, unknown, and that agency has been involved in all this. The consultant is buying a company from Greece, so Heineken's brewery, the value of the project is unpublished, also a shopping adviser. Then, Nestle, a shopping adviser, a shopping adviser to Velefarm, Belgrade, a shopping adviser to the company Šumadijalek, a consultant to the purchase of Venčac, also an adviser to the purchase of the Moscow Bank. So this is one serious topic that we should seriously deal with, especially the Government and the RES, since it's all about the Directorate, in fact, I'm sorry, the Privatisation Agency. (President: Time.) I'm just finishing up. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8890	Thank you. The word is Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8891	So, I'm reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The Serbian Radical Party is in possession of a stenogram of the last Security Council session. It is, therefore, the 6025th meeting, held on 26 November 2008. US representative Mrs. DiCarlo, among other things, said Kosovo's independence is a free status. What we have in mind is that, most likely, after a full story through a presidential statement concerning the reconfiguration of UNMIK, the transfer of competence from UNMIK to the Eulex mission is only one of the phases, de facto, recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija by the state of Serbia. The final phase should be to implement Ischinger's plan, i.e. final partition of Kosovo and enter dialogue with Albanians. What is inadmissible is that we have not discussed this in any place through official institutions, especially here, in the highest body within a political system, we have not given the government the mandate to negotiate within these frameworks. What is even worse, the state of Serbia, which is supposed to prove its sovereignty and territorial integrity, not a single moment of any legal act, has annulled any proceedings through the official institutions of the Serbian state. This is what the responsible authorities should do, accepting the fact that the Western forces, by force, aggression, therefore, against the legal, non-human and non-civilisation act, have built a terrorist state in the part of Serbian territory. Why am I saying this? Because, in 1999, there are three resolutions that directly condemn the Kosovo Liberation Army as a terrorist organisation and terrorist acts. What we have now is a fundamental, confidential report by the state that has recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, which is Germany, that in that part of the territory is actually organised crime. The next step is the story of terrorism, and we have no reaction from the official authorities of the Serbian state. This is, of course, in the first place because we expect an answer, Mr. Chairman, and from you, the president of the assembly, from the prime minister and all the responsible when, what year will the entire Serbian government come here to talk about trust, or mistrust with the Serbian government... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... only on two basiss, which are Kosovo and Metohija and the terrible financial crisis in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8892	The word after the amendment is Mr. Laslo Varga. Here you go. Just a heads-up: we'll be working until 7:30 for transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8893	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, since it's been about two or two hours since the opening presentation of the amendment's motion, I think it would be in order to repeat what this is all about. So, MPs Lodi Gabor, Tamash Tot and Maraci Nandor submitted an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. This amendment proposes the establishment or survival of the basic court in Ada, Bačka Topoli, Vienna, Kanjizi and Senti. I've called to discuss this amendment for a number of reasons. First of all, I would like to thank all MPs who support the fight against MPs, above all the Parliament's Minority Club, for the survival of courts in those areas where national minorities live in large numbers. So, I also want to thank the Serbian Radical Party, and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the Liberal Democratic Party, and the Serbian Progressive Party, and New Serbia, as well as the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, as all these parties supported our amendments during the discussion. This debate on amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts reminds me a little of the period when we fought for the survival of the media, i.e. for the interruption of the privatisation of programmes and languages of national minorities. And then we had the support of all parties for our fight, except, unfortunately, the Democratic Party. I was hoping, or we were hoping that... Of course, in the end, the Democratic Party gave way, and when we adopted the Law on Local Self-Government, the solution we proposed for months was accepted. We were hoping that some lesson was drawn, but unfortunately, since we're discussing this issue again or this problem, it doesn't seem that way. The second reason for my report is the fact that Mr. Lodi, Mr. Tot and Mr. Maraci have submitted an amendment to the bill, and that's one small historic event in my parliamentary career. Namely, this is the first chance that these MPs have submitted an amendment to any of the draft laws on the agenda of the National Assembly, and the special weight of this also gives the fact that they went out for this pay phone and tried to defend the proposed amendment. This means to me that there is one deep disagreement on this bill in the ranks of that parliamentary club that gives the minister of justice. This discrepancies is particularly high in relation to the part of the law that the number of those courts operating in areas where national minorities make up a relative or absolute majority of bends, practically, from 14 to two. Namely, the number of courts from 138 to 34 decreases. That's what we talked about in the principle debate. So there's one quarter of the courts. In those areas where minorities make up an absolute or relative majority, there are 14 courts, and there are only two, that means one seventh. I think that the proposer of this amendment also meant this fact when he proposed and defended this amendment for this speaker. We, in front of the SVM, support this amendment, or the spirit or purpose of this amendment, and we will vote in favour of this amendment. I have a need, however, to draw attention to some facts that, I think, are very important. On the one hand, this amendment is well-real. Namely, this amendment proposes the survival of three courts: in Ada, Kanjiza and Senta; therefore, three special courts that would include in Canjiza 27,000, in Senta 25,000, and in Ada below 20,000 inhabitants, and we know that the smallest court proposed by the Law court in Bora is about 55,000 inhabitants. This is therefore a fact relating to the unreality of the proposings of this amendment, i.e. the unrealty of accepting this amendment. The second problem with this amendment is the fact that the municipality of Choka is proposed to be part of a basic court in Kanjija. I think it's not only unrealistic but also unserious, since Choka is certainly more than 15 kilometers from Kanjiza, and two or three kilometers from Senta, so another municipal or basic court whose survival is proposed by this amendment. With regard to the possibility of accepting this amendment, there is a problem in the aspect, practically, of legal possibility. In fact, this amendment is in this form, unfortunately, legally impossible. Unfortunately, he's not in the House President of the Legislative Committee, but I'd like to address him this way. In this amendment, only the change of the network of courts is proposed, and no change of public prosecutors is proposed. I think it's legally impossible to operate one network of courts and another network of public prosecutors. I think the Legislative Committee was supposed to draw attention to this. We are now coming to the motionary's intention. It's, I mean, the biggest flaw of this amendment. Namely, the promoters of this amendment had two objectives. The first goal was to prove that they were fighting more for the survival of courts in those areas where the Hungarian communities live from us SVM MPs, so they proposed, in addition to courts in Bačka Topoli, Senti and Vienna, the survival of municipal or basic courts in Ada and Kanjija. On the other hand, I think there's another argument, and that's a feeling of remorse because they're going to have to vote for this bill. They intended to free themselves from remorse by submitting this amendment. In the end, I allow that I am wrong, that I may be wrong, but you can prove it in two ways: on the one hand, to go out now and propose to the Minister to withdraw this bill in this form from the assembly procedure, and the other way is that when this law and this amendment arrive you vote against the bill, because otherwise, I think all those claims that I made are unequivocal and justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8894	The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8895	New Serbia does not only have the most beautiful name on Serbia's political scene, but also a vision of truly new Serbia based on traditional values that are the archetype part of Serbia's Christian being. Nationality is given to us by God, but with it and the obligation to treat our neighbor as ourselves, regardless of what religion, nationality, race, gender, social status that neighbor was. In a more modern dictionary, New Serbia believes that the degree of democracy of society is measured by the attitude towards minorities and the opportunities given to them for the achievement of civil rights. If it were not for an empty rhetoric, it is also seen that New Serbia's MPs in this House will also support this amendment 19 on Article 3rd position 1 submitted by MPs Gabor Lodi, Tamas Tot and Nandor Maraci. Not only will the MPs of the NS support Amendment 22, which is yet to follow, submitted by colleagues Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond to Article 3 of the Law proposal. Now a little bit more about the rights of endangered minorities. The deputy head of the NS parliamentary group, Mr. Miroslav Markicevic, has already mentioned that today is the International Day of Rights for Persons with Disabilities and has requested information on the fate of the New Serbia amendment, which was adopted during the previous budget rebalancing debate, and provides for 12 million for sports grounds for disabled persons. It's nice to remember today, December 3rd, our loved ones with disabilities, but it's not enough for them to mention, carry out various actions, share some kind of one-time humanitarian aid, and then forget it all. Not only is it forgotten, but it continues to discriminate against these people who are often exposed to psychophysical violence, so that his ignorance still comes as a unit of tolerance. The Youth Forum with Disabilities, as well as the Association of Blind and Disabilities, which today had a 12-hour gathering in Adi Giganlia, with the intention of launching a project that should make Adju Giganli available for people with disabilities, as part of the "Four Steps" project as a first step they conducted research in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis. The results of the survey pointed to a high degree of discrimination on persons with disabilities, although there is a positive legislative regulation. Namely, the past government of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica has passed a legislative framework that the European Commission has declared excellent. Serbia, therefore, has good laws, but there is a problem implementing them. The problem is also the implementation of the next three steps after research, which are: approaching positions in co-operation with local self-government representatives, opening counselling, providing legal assistance and monitoring in the end. If we have already, thanks to the previous government's activities, achieved a good legal framework, this government remains to apply the laws and bring its activities into line with the activities of the NGO sector in this area. A positive example is, for example, the organisation of the Employment of Persons with Disabilities Fair, as 5,073 unemployed persons with disabilities were registered in the Serbian capital alone. Today, the employment fair is organised in the Vracar municipality's premises from 12 to 16 hours, in co-operation with the Belgrade branch of the National Employment Service. Otherwise, this is the 11th fair since the beginning of the year, which will be attended by 20 employers interested in hiring persons with disabilities of various profiles of professions and degrees of professional training. The effects of the fairs are good, indicating that 17.7% of visitors, who are targeted at the fairs, are employed. It's 2214 Belgrade citizens. However, what is necessary and what has yet to be done is that such fairs and similar activities are organised throughout Serbia, as there is no even regional development in terms of the rights of persons with disabilities. Although far from great, the situation in Belgrade is somewhat better than within Serbia, where there are no adequate approaches and ramps or accessible curbs, and it is embarrassing that in the 21st century we are still talking about the need for accessible curbs. Again, the legal framework is good and there is an adequate Law on Planning and Construction, but is often not applied. In addition to employment problems, people with disabilities have a problem with discrimination in the field of education, above all, because there is no impulsive education. Speaking of discrimination against those who are different, I must also draw attention to the problem of education of children with dyslexia and dysfunction. This is what the telegram I received from Leskovec from the mother of a dyslexic child who addresses us with a request to examine what is actually in school and preschool environments doing on the plan of education of children who are suffering from dyslexia that is experiencing various types of torture. I'm not going to read this woman's name on purpose. What's very important to know, for citizens, dyslexia is to move order of letters, so let's say the child instead of "lasta" reads "waves" or replaces letters, so "baby" turns out to be "grandpa". Discography is a problem with mastering writing skills, so often the order of letters is replaced, two or more words are written together, or vocals are replaced. These children's handwriting is very messy and incomprehensible. Worst of all, children who avoid reading and writing or who do not want to read aloud in front of classmates often find their parents lazy and rude, with drastic punishment and no idea of a problem. Experts estimate that as many as a quarter of Belgrade elementary schools have different types of reading and writing difficulties. In addition to normal intelligence, which is often and above average in dyslexic children, problems often arise in language understanding. A child is ready for school, a psychological test has passed, sees, hears, and has not been found to have problems with language understanding because there are no such examinations. High-intelligent children at the start of schooling these problems can somehow hide at the expense of intelligence, and when they get to the older classes, to the fifth, sixth grade of primary school, they start to have serious difficulties. It's about on-the-spot torture by teachers, teachers, parents and peers so we don't even talk. What we should not forget is that it is estimated that as many as 700,000 people in Serbia suffer from dyslexia. Just to get back to the beginning, the international Day of Rights of Persons with Disabilities should be just a reason to focus seriously on solving the problems of people living beside us and with us, and they are in a situation of serious danger. The degree of democracy of society, as I said at the outset, is measured by the attitude to endangered minorities, and the degree of humanity certainly expresses what impotence, problem, difficulty or pain in our neighbor is causing us. To paraphrasise the patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul - let's be people, though we are politicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8896	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mr. Balint Pastor. Here, the remaining time of your parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8897	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Maraci, I thank you for having done me the honor of being present and listening to your address. Since 14 February 2007, this is the first time an MP from the Democratic Party who is a member of the Hungarian national community has come to this place and said something in the interest of its national community, in the interest of the municipality from which it comes. Thank you. I hope you've seen that this doesn't hurt and that you will come here in the future and speak for both the Democratic Party and the Hungarian National Community, and I hope that Mr Tot will join you in the future and that we will be able to work together on behalf of our citizens and our municipalities and the cities from which we come. Mr. Varga has already spoken of your amendment and said he supports the spirit of this amendment. In my personal name, I want to do this again. I hope that this amendment will be adopted, because it is really necessary for the court to survive in Vienna, to survive the court in Senta, to survive the court in Backo Topoli. Of course, we also agree with the idea of a court in Kanjiza, since the Canjiza court building is probably known, one of the state-of-the-art courts in the Republic of Serbia, and it is a very bad pity to have the court lifted. I know it'll remain a judicial unit, but it's not the same. So, the court is abolished in a place where it is one of the most beautiful and modern buildings in the entire Republic of Serbia as far as justice is concerned, as far as courts are concerned. We also did not propose a concrete solution to stay in Ada and remain the court in Kanjija because we did not want to disrupt the entire system of this judicial reform. We understand you, Madam Minister, that the intention is to remain only those courts in which at least nine or ten judges work and that only those courts that cover at least 55,000 citizens remain. That, unfortunately, is not the case with Kanjiz and Ada. It's the Vienna case, Buck Topol and Sento. Mr. Maraci did not answer those questions that Mr. Varga asked about your behavior in the voting day. If you only suggested this for a reason to show the Adjan and the Kanjis to represent their interests, then it's two-faced and hypocritical. That's what I have to say from this place, so you deny me. You can only deny me if you come here and if you say you will not support this law, in the same way that the SVM will not support it, unless these courts, whose survival you have proposed, survive. If you don't do it from this place, then this is hypocrisy. As far as your amendment is concerned, I absolutely agree with what you brought out of the pay phone – that it is necessary to survive the court in Kanjija and because of the border crossing, that it is necessary to survive the court in Kanjija both because of tradition and because of the court building. I don't know why you didn't write that in the light of your amendment. I'll quote the explanation of your amendment, which is rather strange, and I think the other MPs, colleagues and colleagues will agree. He says this, one sentence is an explanation: "This amendment achieves better communication between the municipalities listed in the text of the amendment. "What difference does better communication have between municipalities with the survival of the court in Kanjiza, Ada, Vienna, Bačka Topoli etc? (From the O.R.: For the trial of the president of the municipality. ) But the president of the municipality in Kanjija is from the ranks of SVM, after we received 19 terms of office of 29. So there will be no trial against the president of the Kanjija municipality, that's what you should know. Okay. So you should've written in an explanation what you were saying here. Since you haven't, this amendment stands on glass feet. We will certainly be very supportive of this amendment, because we support your intention. I also expect from you, and from Mr Tot and Lodi, that you do not vote for this law unless this amendment is passed, because we expect you to not vote against the direct interests of those citizens thanks to whom you are sitting here in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8898	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 3 by MP Milovanovic, the Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration, who did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the defense of the amendments, before I try to convince you to press the green button in the voting day and help us adopt this amendment, I must point to a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure. It happened yesterday during my absence. I was in Zemun yesterday in the morning, and we were defending the Zemun municipality from political harassment, because it was absolutely all pure, Belgrade-led powers to take it. At the time, a citizen mentioned my name several times in the assembly booth, saying about the crime at the Flight Control Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, I allow all the MPs to quote me, I allow them to commend me when I say something smart, I allow citizens of Serbia, but I do not allow those who honor and morale to talk about honor and morality. In fact, it's possible that this is still the influence of the smell of Mayan orange on Goc. They say there were 18 million reasons for a group to get together. Crime cannot be talked about by someone who has committed a crime here by taking 15,000 votes from Serbian citizens and stealing a parliamentary mandate. If he's going to get his morals back first, then he can go to church, and then he can come here afterwards. I forbid him to take my name in his mouth. Speaking of Flight Control, before I move on to this, just two more questions to ask. Is it true that all the murky shops in Flight Control Stankov perform via the head of the procurement of Mirjana Belanovic and is that Mirjana Belanovic the cousin of Miroljub Labus? Is it true that she's the sister-in-law of Bojan Krishti? Is it true that Bojan Kristo is the son-in-law of Miroljub Labus? Now let's move on to the amendment. Mrs. Malovic, the law you passed in front of the Assembly on the basis of changes, but in a bad, whole state, full relations in Serbia. You know that, especially in central Serbia, small towns, palace centers, and 60 km around them are villages; life is happening right in these cities. Alexine is where the nearest border is bordering with another municipality 30 kilometers away. If you head up towards Prokuplje, the border village is Vukanja - 36 km. If you go here, the border village is Loznac- a total of 40 km. If you're headed down to Nis, it's Drenovac and Warmman, it's about 30 kilometers again. Up towards Sokobanja is Mozgovo - 30 kilometers. So, 70 kilometers is the radius of the Aleksian municipality. The court in the Aleksian municipality was established about 180 years ago. The entire cultural life, the whole life of the palace, takes place around the court - high school (in this case the high school) - church - building of the municipality. You predicted that the basic court would be in Nis, so you'd have citizens who would have to cross 100 kilometers to come. Just because you have a district court unit in Alexinac doesn't mean anything, because this is how things build up and stand for a few months before they start being processed. I therefore believe that this amendment should be accepted. Life in central Serbia is dying. There are two reasons: the first is the white plague, and the second is migration. The moment you in a palace that represents the center of the area, that district, you lift one of these verticals, of these institutions, is slowly moving towards larger centres. What about decentralisation, which we have been talking so much about a few years ago and for which the Democratic Party stands for it in particular? Instead of decentralisation, we got, say, the Capital City Act, which put all the authorities in the hands of the mayor. Gilas now has the right, thanks to the Statute of the City and the Law on the capital, that is to say, to take over those jobs that the Ministry of Local Self-Government has been doing. Today, Gilas can impose temporary measures. That is why I ask the MPs to adopt the amendment of MP Milovan Radovanovic and to keep the basic court in Alexinac alive. Believe me, you'll do a lot to the citizens of Alexine and the environment. After all, I have a feeling that you, Mrs. Malovic, are being framed, about, like, hot potatoes, that you come out and defend him, at this very time. It seems to me that this law, if adopted, will do much more harm than you see. The benefits are approximately – some 400 judges will be abolished, perhaps so many prosecutors and all will come to an end. Anyway, the items have been standing for a few years and haven't been solved; this is not going to solve them, you're just going to multiply both time and problems. I don't think the problems that exist in the judiciary right now will be solved by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8900	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? You have received notice that MP Judge Viorel has withdrawn amendments to Articles 3, 4 and 9. Proposal for a Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Employees exclaim there's no time.) All right, then on the basis of article 85, I'll set a break by 3:00. The word will be first given to Mr. Laszlo Varga, according to his amendment. Thank you and pleasant. [[After break – 15/05]] Welcome, Minister. We start our afternoon meeting where we left off before noon. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz called. On the basis of Article 85(5), I announce that we will continue our work until 19.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8902	According to the members of 225 and 226, we said we'd ask, and yesterday we didn't ask once, if you noticed, we let us see one day that the opposition was not again accused of obstruction. The question, of course, is for the Prime Minister; again, as I said the other day, we have different, contradictory information on where the budget is and when will be the budget of the Republic of Serbia i.e. The draft budget, because the budget is adopted by the National Assembly. Today, Prime Minister Cvetkovic said it was not certain that tomorrow's budget would be in the government, that the government's committees had not finished the job. Imagine when the committees of the Assembly will finish the job. The government's committees haven't finished their work on the budget. It is only today or tomorrow to be seen with representatives of the province of Vojvodina because they are dissatisfied. It is interesting to me that the executive power in Vojvodina knows what it says in that work version of the budget, and MPs in the Serbian Parliament do not know. Because they are dissatisfied, allegedly, are not foreseen in the budget of those seven percent, which are according to the Constitution. In addition, today Mr Cvetkovic said his interpretation of the IMF's obligation is that the government should adopt the budget by December 19th. The government doesn't adopt the budget. The government only proposes, brings a draft budget. The National Assembly adopts the budget. He was only adopted when we adopted him here. He doesn't apply until we approve him. What the government is doing is not a budget, it's a budget proposal. He's not in the National Assembly. What kind of executive power is this in the country? Eulex is deployed in Kosovo. Talk, don't talk, they'll implement Ahtisaari's plan. Two days in Brussels, NATO is talking about it. It lasts, the date is set, around December 9th, is being deployed, and Minister Jeremic also announces today... (President: I thank you. I apologize, especially to you, because you, in my opinion, are the best chairman here. So today Minister Jeremic declares that European integration, i.e. Serbia's road to the EU on ice. I ask a question once again – where is the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8903	Thank you. I ask the service to forward the questions of the MP to the Government. The word is Mr. Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Aligrudic. I apologize to Mr. Maras, Mr. Milos Aligrudic as head of the parliamentary group has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8904	I refer to members 225 and 226. We heard a question from Dragan Shormaz. I'm asking you to answer it. There are still other questions we can make, but I'd like to go back to the amendment story today. But before that, since last night he participated in state television, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic said something about these aspects of Eulex's acceptance, claiming something that I think is a national disgrace that is a major diplomatic victory... We have recently heard the very precise conclusion of Mr. Shormaz that it doesn't matter what we call something, but what is going to come out in reality. In reality, it will certainly turn out that Eulex serves to support the independence of our southern province. I don't want to doubt the heart and commitment of the foreign minister. What he received as a task is not easy at all. When it comes to this, I really can't make any particular remarks, because it's not a problem with the foreign minister, the problem is what's being drawn up and where it's being drawn as a state foreign policy. Last night, we heard from the foreign minister that the main actor of the international foreign policy is the president of the state. Open the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and find him that function. Find out where the president of the state says he's doing it. How is that possible? So I have to ask the prime minister, so not the foreign minister, how is it possible to let someone who carries another post in the state take over a job that, under the Constitution, falls on the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That's the first thing. Secondly, will the prime minister grant us answers not only to this, but also to some other questions, will he grant us one piece of paper that would show what is being negotiated in the UN and what is it that the United Nations has concluded? Because believe me, as members of this house and elected national representatives, we don't need to inform ourselves about it through the press. We were able to read, there were close journalists who wrote all this well, described one after the other each point of the six points that relate, first of all, to the north of Kosovo, making a big difference between the south and the north of Kosovo and the Metohija. According to whose instructions did this National Assembly ever decide? What does it look like during the negotiations, what did it look like, is this house ever going to find out? That's my question, Prime Minister. Please forward that question. We can talk about it in the day when the government's trust is being discussed, but it would be good if we could get an answer to these questions before that day's discussion of the government's trust. Because it is something that is certainly very interesting and important for the work of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8905	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. I ask the professional service to forward Mr Aligrudic's question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic. The word is Mr. Free Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8906	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported in accordance with Article 104. We have been listening here for days to the same question the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia ask, which is – where is the budget. Gentlemen of the DSS, you are truly the last to ask such a question. You know there was temporary funding during Kostunica's first government. After that, if I'm not mistaken, we got the 2007 budget in May. The 2008 budget was also late. The last thing I want is to be a government attorney, but the situation in which the government is in front of the 2009 budget cannot be compared to the situation where Kostunica's government has been making a budget. You've had to calculate the high cost of election campaigns into that budget you've been making. We're in a big crisis right now. I fully accept your criticism when you say that we are in a major crisis and that there is a great danger when it comes to economics. Indeed, there is a responsibility of this government that can be measured by the dates when it will deliver the budget. The government also held talks with the IMF for a few weeks, and I believe it is in the interest for all of us to make a budget by the date that Bord the IMF said it would decide whether to make a deal with Serbia or not. But again, you're really the last person to ask the question where the budget is. I agree that we should criticise the government even when it comes to the budget, why it is not in front of MPs, but there are objective reasons. Indeed, however the First Mah acts, the statement of the finance minister who said it was better to get a budget with a delay than to get a missing one, I think we have to agree and that in this situation we have to have patience. Even though we are not those who support the government, we have to support our country, and that way we will be able to do so if we get a budget that we can discuss, but to be quality. You know there's a huge savings project in many ministries and I think we should wait for that budget to arrive. I underline, you from the Democratic Party of Serbia led two governments. We know what it was like for 2007 – because of the elections and everything else has gone on long enough to calculate the costs of the election. The 2008 budget was also delayed. If you were to admit it and say it -- yes, we were wrong then, then I could understand that you are asking such questions, but I think it is extremely incorrect that those who have also trampled on the Budgetary System Act ask such questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8907	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8908	Mr. Marash, I really have no intention of pacing with you, and I don't know what it took for you to speak to me and to the DSS at all this way. I find it extremely unnecessary, even if you don't know the political events in the time you're talking about. First of all, the choices you're talking about at the time you were held we didn't want to, and everybody knows it. We didn't even want it to be presidential elections, it's no secret. That's what we talked about back then, and we said we had a problem with Kosovo and Metohija, and we said that we were going into a phase that was very sensitive and that shouldn't be burdened by political tensions. We didn't want any later parliamentary elections, and neither did the local elections. We suggested that the National Assembly, by the majority it could have, which is the two-thirds majority, decide, because it is a legitimate decision, that these elections (which, by the Constitution, otherwise had to be held) be moved because it was the interest of the state, but someone was in a hurry. Two, and if this wasn't the explanation I gave, you have a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was passed and that constitution envisioned holding certain elections. That's what I said. We wanted them to move, there was no political will to do so, and they started to be held in some terms, and that cost. I don't understand what your suggestion would be. Maybe not at all? I know what your proposal is. Your proposal was then not to adopt a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because the constitution that was brought in, which is legitimate, on your part, you have the legitimate right to act in this way, should not be the way it was. And you didn't think he was going through some kind of debate that, according to you, the Constitution was going to go through. But it's legitimate to look at the matter and I don't see any reason to argue about it. The constitution was brought on the basis of a referendum, the constitution was brought to parliament by a two-thirds majority, and more than that. He produced certain consequences and these consequences cost a lot of money by nature. So, I don't see what's the subject of your grudge. When it comes to whether the earlier government, or the government that preceded it, was late with the budget compared to some legal deadlines, of course it was, and there were some reasons for that. I don't think this government is running late on the budget for no reason. She has some reasons, too, but she just needs to see and compare the reasons. So that's the point, it's interesting to use politically, not simply compare the facts, as the president of the National Assembly told me the other day: "You know how, on today last year, the budget of the previous government arrived in the Serbian Parliament. "Right, but on that same day, the government's budget did not reach the Assembly. And that's true. That's why we're asking where the budget is. I can't understand one more thing, and I end up saying, "Why does he have to entertain you in particular now to single out one parliamentary group and challenge her right to ask the question where the budget is?" I guess we have a right to ask that, huh? What difference does it make which date has passed the budget or before the budget arrived in the Assembly? Maybe as a political trick to you at this point, as a political trick, but there's no reason for that, from the point of view. So I really don't see any reason for these intruders. You can replicate as much as you want to me now that I don't want to talk about it any further, but you need to know that this way of communication was on the verge of correctness, even incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8909	I hope no one challenges the right to ask questions in this congregation. The word is Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8910	Articles 225 and 226. Since we are definitely expected to discuss the budget, I am asking the competent institutions for information. In fact, in the period from 2004 to the end of 2007, the budgetary inspection found that budget institutions had spent an illegal and non-intentional little more than 6.8 billion dinars and ordered that the money be returned to the budget. I ask the Ministry of Finance for information on how illegally and unintendedly spent money has been returned to the budget for 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8911	Thank you. I'm asking the service to forward a stenogram with a question from the People's Parliament to the Ministry of Finance. The word is Mr. Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8912	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the risk of being reminded that I do not have the right basis for reporting to the Rules of Procedure, I will still use the members of 225 and 226 to relax the atmosphere among the opposition parties when we talk about the budget. So it is no secret that next year we are facing major financial challenges and that the budget should be drawn up from what realistically Serbia can offer citizens, projected growth of the social product, an agreement Serbia should sign with the International Monetary Fund and certain commitments that we as a state of the IMF have made to end the agreement, that is, by half this month. Therefore, to respect all these things, as well as the fact that the ruling coalition is composed of different parties, each of which has different priorities, it is certain that within a very short time we will have a draft budget. But if we go back a few years, we'll remember that there were times when the budget was adopted at two in the morning, that there were times when MPs who didn't participate in the elections came here to vote for the budget. There have been different dramatic political situations. After all, the political situation is always reflected through the adoption, failure to adopt budgets, ease or dramatics that adopt the budget. It's the same now. Therefore, with the legitimate concern of LDP and DSS MPs, I think that in the next period, relatively soon, we will all have the opportunity to say our word on the budget. I think it is quite clear that at this moment the budget is a key economic message that the Serbian and Serbian government will send to foreign investors and all other economic factors next year. Even though calling for a global financial crisis is one mantra that is used perhaps more often than should be, that is, the fact; look at the environment and the more developed countries, there are many problems. It is logical that Serbia has these problems, too, but I hope that we will succeed in solving all these problems and that we will be pleased to hear here critics or praises from different parties regarding the proposal for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8913	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, the replica, so Mr. Marash, also the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8914	I think I have the right to reply, given that Mr. Marash, after my speech, directly addressed us to the DSS MPs and said that the last one we have was entitled to ask when the budget would be. I totally understand why you're stepping out like this. This government is made, it's not made up. We were talking about who made this government. This government was designed to have EULEX installed in Kosovo, and that happens. The spare wheel in the car of this government is you, and you have now shown it, defend it harder than before, fellow Senic. So you're that spare, fifth wheel. Everything you've said is completely unargumented. The provisional budget - you know why it was. We brought in two budgets one year because the government of Zoran Zivkovic did not bring in the budget; so one year was the provisional budget, exactly, but why – because of the adoption of the Constitution and the calling of elections; so last year it was late delivered, but you remember who was the finance minister last year. The Prime Minister was Vojislav Kostunica and now it's the DSS government? Didn't the Democratic Party have one minister more than everyone else in the government? Wasn't G17 plus in that government? Well, they had a huge majority, and now they're in government. I'm talking about the previous government, in the previous government you had a majority. Right? The finance minister was today's Prime Minister. Can't be a man. If we want some more comparative data, now 3% of GDP growth, 2006 was the government, without them, Vojislav Kostunica - 7.6%, four times more investment than today. Is that what we need to talk about? Salary growth, unlike today's profit drop; profit growth, pension growth, standard growth—you had it all, Mr. Maras. Those are the facts, and if it's all right, we'll take them out black and white, so you'll see, I just said some information about it now. Making state reserves, and what do we have today? In a month, 600m euros spent on state reserves. For what? To defend the course? Unsuccessful. From 76 to over 90, in a month. Who's defending who from what? They don't know anything about work, and they can't make a budget. It's a fact, and you can't deny us the right to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8915	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the budget will certainly come to the agenda and there will be opportunities to discuss it from all angles and from all positions. Please, kindly, let's get back to the agenda. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8916	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Aligrudic, at the beginning of your speech, you said you didn't want to talk to me, and then you did it for three minutes. Of course I had no intention of defending the government, I was just trying to tell you one thing: the last thing I'm saying again, which should be asking the question where the budget is, is you. Now I'm going to tell you why, everyone here will remember: and the one who arrived in May for 2007 and the one who arrived in December, with a delay, for 2008 arrived on Friday night in this assembly, and on Monday we discussed them. You've served yourself with these things, but let's put it all aside now. You also mentioned the Constitution, that we were against the new Constitution. On the contrary, we are now for a new constitution, but when it comes to the one you brought, of course, we were against it and we said it a thousand times. Mr. Aligruditch, I didn't throw it to you. I won't quote what you said. Mr. Shormaz, Mr. Cvetkovic was the finance minister, but the prime minister, who never said a word about the economy during his term, was Vojislav Kostunica. The time in which the budget was brought last time and in which you discussed, which you also brought to the MPs with delay, is quite different from this time, and that is where we agree Mr Aligrudic and I. When the budget comes, of course we'll talk about it the way we think, as LDP, we should talk about the budget. One more thing, I will never discuss with you again, the Liberal Democratic Party is not a spare wheel in this government, and we will never be a spare wheel for any government. The Liberal Democratic Party will enter the government only when it is able to implement its programme, or when it can dominantly influence how the government will work. So don't ever say we're a spare wheel, a fifth, a sixth, or you're already listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8917	The word by Business is Mr. Zoran Nikolic, so Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic. I hope you'll talk about the subject that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8918	Dear Mr. Novakovic, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. It is that the DSS colleagues have already said enough, but given what's been said here, I have a need to provide more information. I refer to Article 225 and Article 104, and I want to explain that because it is a violation of the reputation of this congregation. We are today faced with a statement by Prime Minister Cvetkovic saying it is an obligation for the government to adopt the draft budget by 20 December and that it is a condition for the IMF, not parliament. In other words, Prime Minister Cvetkovic said that this parliament is absolutely irrelevant. Hypothetically, let's just say that we won't adopt that budget and that there won't be enough majority, and as far as we can tell from the news and how much information we can get, there are parliamentary groups that seriously question this budget. What if that budget doesn't get adopted? So Mr. Cvetkovic enters a very risky field where he simply tells the public that this parliament does not matter. This applies to the ruling majority's MPs. It is not good when the prime minister you chose speaks of your position in this House. That's the first thing. The other thing I want to say here is that we see that there are serious considerations within the government. Minister Dinkic says the obligation, to conclude an arrangement with the IMF, is to enter into a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement as of 1 January 2009. As far as we're aware, the more reasonable part of the government absolutely understands that it will cost us at least one 150 - 200 million if we unilaterally begin to apply that agreement. Now we have a conflict here. As far as we can see, at least I'm guessing the Democratic Party is willing to respect reality and simply that stupidity you've done, and for the sake of European integration, it's a declaration, because that's what you've been doing towards this thing and not the interests of the state and the real budgeting... Let me say one more thing: then you accused the Democratic Party of Serbia of being against the European Union – if you are against the Transition Agreement, then you are against the European Union. Now we see that the Democratic Party, when faced with reality, when it hit its head against the wall, is willing to think about it. Is the Democratic Party against the European Union, then? If we follow and quote what you've been telling us then, then you, too, are against the EU. But it doesn't matter. You must be aware of one fact – that you are responsible for everything that is going to happen in the country. There's no debate here about Eulex, the president of the state deals with everything and everything, including the budget, among other things... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And here you keep your mouth shut. It's not correct what you said, Mr. Maras (finding, I need another 15 seconds), that during the government of Vojislav Kostunica there was a temporary financing in 2007. Well, the election was called in November 2006. The government cannot bring a budget when elections are called, or parliament cannot, because at that moment, parliament did not exist. The government was formed only on 15 May 2007. So either you don't know those facts or you're extremely malicious. In particular, DSS MPs have the right, and it will benefit this government, according to what it has promised, say – where the budget is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8919	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8920	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a DSS MP, I'm also going to use my right to speak for this speaker. Just because someone respects me that I don't have an adequate right, I'm simply going to ignore it because I don't think he can take that right away from me. First, I'll start with what he said that the government of Vojislav Kostunica didn't talk about this or that. The government, however, did not say that we would not be hungry, as this government says. She didn't say anything about us not being naked and barefooted, as the government ministers say, and they didn't bring the budget, even though all the legal deadlines were over. In the pre-election campaign, they promised 200,000 new jobs, a high standard, equal to the European Union, etc. What did Kostunica's government say, both of them? She talked about how she did things. I will remind those who have forgotten, but the citizens know it and how well they know, at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, you had a growth of gross social product by 7.6%. You were among those countries in transition that had the highest growth of gross products. You had macroeconomic stability in the country, you had it for a few years. You don't have any of that right now. What else did you have? You've had the launch of all very important infrastructure facilities. Now this rule of heritage some of them. I think it's perfectly normal for governments to inherit jobs that one starts, the other starts. It's ugly that the highway concessions have collapsed in such a way that they're trying to tear down the gas deal story in this way, and it's actually natural to keep doing it. What else did the government of Vojislav Kostunica do? These foreign exchange reserves, which have been released uncontrollably over the past few months to stop the dinar fall, have been raised by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. We had these high reserves back then. In the last nine months, you've put a million or 900m euros in traffic from those reserves to stop the course, and yet you haven't been able to stop it, which is ugly, because you're wasting state reserves, you can't stop the course. You had the purchasing power of citizens who are far higher than they are today. You had a constitution brought by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. The poverty that was actually reduced to 6%. You had your first environmental laws. I've got three minutes coming up, so I'm speeding up. Then, you've had so many shifts that can't fit in those three minutes, so I'll probably use a few times three minutes to remind you. It's forgotten today. Today, the prime minister tells you that it is not necessary for him to bring the budget among MPs on November 1st, that it is not necessary for the Assembly to adopt it at all, it seems he will not adopt it either. It's normal today. During the government of Vojislav Kostunica, it was not normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8921	Thank you. Mr Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8922	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you two questions. Since the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the gas agreement are mentioned here, I have two questions. First, did the secretary general of the government, so the government of Vojislav Kostunica, have a deal on the work with "Gasprom" and how much was the fee under that contract, at the time he was Secretary-General of the Government, as an expert consultant or adviser? That's the first question. The second question is, did his wife, at a time when he was Secretary General, become a spokesman for Lukoila and with what income? Since he is in fashion today, what – nepotism. Abuse. How can the Secretary General of the Government have a deal with some company that concludes the gas deal? And now I hear from the Deputy Prime Minister that it is not known whether and when this famous South Stream pipeline, which is to be poured into Maricevic's Jarug, will go through Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8923	I'm sorry, which question should I forward? Vladi. Thank you. According to the amendment to Article 3, Lasslo Varga appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8924	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SVM have submitted the amendment, we have spoken of it many times, whose goal is to survive the basic courts in Bačka Topoli, Senti and Vienna. Before I try to further explain this proposal of ours, I want to answer some questions that were asked yesterday and today, so I'll get to the amendment later. Many ask us why we voted for this government, how we are part of the ruling coalition when we have no ministers, when we criticise certain laws. That's what they asked us yesterday, and today the question is asked. For the reasons we believe that this government is leading politics and has goals that largely coincide with those goals that our party has, which is in one sentence, if I want to put in one sentence, Serbia's fastest possible entry into the European Union. We are practically here in the Assembly, in addition to supporting this government that has this goal, to represent the interests of those citizens who sent us to this assembly and of course those areas from which we come and from which those citizens who support us come. We are trying to support the government, but representing the interests of our voters, those people who, once again, have sent us to this assembly. We're not in this assembly because of the government and the fact that we don't have ministers is the best evidence for this claim. That's why you can't trade with us. That's what I want to say once again when it comes to courts, and when it comes to, for example, the Vojvodina budget and those famous 7%. We may be a little idealistic, we may even be incorrigible idealists, but we are in the congregation because of these goals, and while we are in the congregation, we will surely represent these goals. I must say, it's an insult to us when anyone says that we condition, threaten, blackmail. We don't do that. Once again, we try to represent the ideas we believe and the interest of those who sent us to this congregation. We will never be able to vote in favour of any bill contrary to our conviction and the interests of our constituents. We'll never let, for example, and that's one quote from the papers, agree to any compromise that practically means disrespect for the Constitution. I think all MPs who may be thinking about adopting the Republic of Serbia's budget in the Vojvodina-related work without respecting the Constitution should think carefully. So once again, we have voted for both the government and all the pro-European laws, and we will do so in the future. We only voted in favour of an oil-gas deal because we are deeply convinced that it harms the citizens of Vojvodina, but that, of course, has passed, and now we are discussing a completely different law. A law which, in addition to this agreement that I have now talked about, is the first law that, in our deep confidence, is not in line with European standards and is not in line with those objectives that the Government is seeking, which is an accelerated way towards European integration. In fact, this bill, we have said it several times, and now I want to repeat it, ignores the fact that Serbia is a multiethnic state and thus violates minority rights. Once again I'm going to repeat that number we've been repeating for days, which is that the number of courts from 138 to 34, so there are one quarter of the courts, and the number of courts in those areas where minorities make up a relative or absolute majority is reduced from 14 to two, so there is one week. I claim this, if this law is passed, will create an obstacle to Serbia's approach to the European Union. In fact, respect for the rights of members of national minorities has become one of the EU's basic values and much has changed in the last 15 years and in the EU itself. And I'm afraid, and I'm saying, if this law is passed like this, all the next progress reports will mention the network of courts as a problem. I want to pull one parallel with a mandate control by the parties. This problem has emerged since the adoption of the new Constitution in every EU document, and as long as this solution does not change, it will always appear as an obstacle and, of course, in that part of various EU documents relating to political criteria. In these same chapters, the problem of the network of courts will arise from year to year if this network proposed is adopted in this way. Now I want to list those cities or those municipalities where the courts are abolished, in which minorities make up a relative or absolute majority. So, the courts in Kanjiza, Senti, Adi, Bačka Topoli, Vienna, Kovacica, Presevo, Bujanovac, Tutina, Sjenica, Bosilegrad and Dimitrovgrad are being abolished and remain in Subotica and Novi Pazar. Once again, this solution will create an obstacle on the way to the European Union. Yesterday, by the way, we showed an example of how multilingualism is respected or not respected in some judicial bodies and of course I would not like to talk about it at this time. However, I want to talk about another problem stemming from this solution, which is the practical abolition of the possibility of a judicial career for members of national minorities. In theory, it will, of course, exist, but in practice certainly not, because it will remain two or three courts in the entire territory of Serbia in which members of national minorities will have the opportunity to become presidents of courts or public prosecutors during their careers. It's unacceptable for us. I want to show you what the Duke's judicial map looks like based on the bill. This is what it looks like. You have created one huge "hole" in the middle of Vojvodina: between Subotica and Novi Sad on one side and Somboro and Kickinda, on the other hand, there is no single court. We have proposed with our amendment (and I will show you, too, one such amendment) that courts in Sainta, Backo Topoli and Vienna survive, in Senta with 86,000 inhabitants, in Vienna with 114,000, and in Backo Topoli with 52,000 inhabitants. I want to hand over this amendment to you, Madam Minister, in visual form. I'm going to keep another picture to myself, hoping that once we've finished the discussion of the details and when the vote is over, we'll have the opportunity to keep this picture to myself, so the one with the huge hole, and the one that represents our amendment, and not have one of these holes left in the middle of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8925	Thank you, very plastic and charming. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz, Mr. Petar Jojic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8926	I'm sorry... First of all, under Article 225, but well, and 226; I can even join some questions. I'm sorry that Mr. Batic came out, but we, as serious people, wanted to check something out first, so let's not run right after him. But here, the public works, I mean, it's absolutely untrue that Dejan Mihaylov had any deal on the work with Gazprom. It's kind of untasteful to comment and talk about family, because what nepotism it is when it comes to a private company, but, let's say, Mrs Sonja Mihajlov, who is the mother of two children, graduated from "Lomonosov" in Moscow, she speaks Russian and English perfectly, worked in journalism and, as such, was admitted to the Russian private company "Lukoil". And he's in the company today, and I just don't know if he's at the job right now, and then, at the time that Mr. Batic is talking about, he wasn't a spokesman, he was a marketing chief, which is better than a spokesman, anyway. But, well, since he's asking for information, he can get it from us, and if he gets it from someone else... The correct information is what it is. Is there gonna be a South Stream? It will. Is anyone in Serbia trying to bring him down? Yes, and there are in the executive power, but it will be done and it will be completed and not those who work for Nabucco, which doesn't exist, you don't even know where the source is, which is just an idea in the minds of Americans to save Europe from energy dependence on Russia... "Nubuko" doesn't exist, it's an idea, you don't even know the source. It seems that the source is planned to be in Iran, but unlike Iraq, Iran has 70 million inhabitants, so it's a little harder to deal with Iran, especially when you're giving hundreds of billions of dollars to save its companies. "Nabuca" has nothing to do with it. All those who talk about "The Nabucco", OMV or those who care about how "Mol" with its flow that charges us to pass here will not work in Serbia's interest. Serbia's interest is "South Stream" and will be done, will certainly be done. Mr Batic can see in the stenogram what I said; so it's absolutely incorrect, about this question he asked, it's not true, I repeat again, not for the contract on the part, and Sonja Mihajlov is like a marketing chief, not a spokesman (diploming to "Lomonosova", she's perfectly speaking Russian and English), she's working in a private company, which has nothing to do with nepotism.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8927	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Kragovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Articles 100 and in relation to Articles 225 and 226, I request an explanation from the competent ministries regarding the installation of the Eulex mission in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In order for citizens, Serbs and other non-Albanians living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija to have this information, I am using this opportunity to call from this pay phone, regardless of what is properly called, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. The meeting of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities is scheduled for tomorrow, attended by all delegates of the assembly, as well as 25 presidents of Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. We will open a debate on what kind of position to be taken, what Serbs should be doing in the area of Kosovo and Metohija on the Eulex mission, which we see already passed by the UN Security Council, so we ask that Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, be present with their associates tomorrow at 12:00 hours in Kosovo Mitrovica, to meet all delegates of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities, as well as all the presidents of municipalities from Kosovo and Metohija, what position Serbs should take, what should they do, how to behave when it comes to the mission that has been installed in the area of Kosovo and Metohija since 9 December. You know that's the problem we're talking about. It's not spoken in the assembly, it's kept quiet in the media. There is some brief information, for example, in today's press -- NATO foreign ministers launched yesterday's meeting in Brussels to discuss relations with Russia, Ukraine and Georgia, while today will discuss adopting and adopt conclusions on the KFOR mission, the deployment of the Eulex mission and co-operation with Serbia, the officials of the North Atlantic Alliance quoted him as saying. NATO spokesman James Apaturaj announced that ministers would discuss developments in Kosovo and Metohija following a UN Security Council session last week. So, EU ministers are meeting, and the ministers of the NATO Pact are all meeting, but no one is meeting here, no one is talking about it, there is only one topic – that some diplomatic... (President: Time.) ) I am taking this opportunity to call on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the foreign minister, as well as the Minister for Kosovo and Metohija to be with their associates tomorrow in Kosovo Mitrovica and to explain it directly to delegates and the presidents of municipalities in Kosovo Mitrovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8929	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vladan Batic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8930	As for Secretary General Vojislav Kostunica... (President: Just call a member, please. The replica to Mr. Shormaz. I just asked if it was right or wrong. You answered my question. I'm happy with the answer. You denied everything. And Kristo denied everything and everybody denies it until they got caught. Speaking of Krist, it is said that it is a successful manager, that it has four times increased the profits of the airport, and my employees have told me to ask the government, one, when it is so successful, why it is not installed in the waiting rooms from A5 to A9 and in all the waiting rooms of the block C. There is no heating system or cooling system, so in winter they freeze, and the employees of these days when it was cold they didn't allow them to wear any warmer equipment, but they have to freeze to make it look like everything is fine. Speaking of gas pipelines, this has become a rsomonyade. The Deputy Prime Minister said the other night, on a show called "Political Murder With Premeditation", that the Russians want NIS immediately, and it is not known whether or not a pipeline will be built, what its capacity will be, and that the feasibility study for the pipeline will be completed only in 2010. Again, I ask the question: what did we actually ratify here, or you who voted for it, since I didn't, as a DHSS MP? Come out, you who voted for ratification, and tell us what you voted for -- to honor the Russians with 500m euros, and they come to us with a pipeline? Like, I'm coming to you with a pipeline. Who knows which way I'm asking the government to explain what's actually ratified, or what's going to happen to that gas deal. From what I understand, it's said, okay, maybe we gave them NIS cheap, but we're getting big gas pipeline stuff, so come on, it doesn't matter. We all know that the NIS was, in fact, given as an honor for the god-awful preservation of Kosovo and the Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8931	Mr. Dragan Shormaz. A Rules of Procedure or a Replic? Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8932	I know the Rules of Procedure. I'm nine years old. I don't have the right replica. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 can also make members of 225 and 226. I am pleased that Mr Batic is pleased with the answer, although it is unclear to me, but by the way let it be my question to the government, it is unclear to me, if Mr Batic is already an opposition MP, why are we talking again about the government of Vojislav Kostunica when we have the government of Cvetkovic-Dacic? You asked a question for Michael, it turns out you were wrong, and you didn't ask, say, for Minister Markovic, who talks about saving... It's the Minister of State and Local Self-Government. I know it's hard to remember ministers in this government, but that's why it's a bad government. He keeps talking about savings, announcing savings in local self-government. I ask the question, I hope that Mr Batic, who sometimes asks me how to deal with Kristi, is it true that at the time of the absolute story of savings, about the reduction of the number of employees, about the reduction of public sector costs, he hired his wife in PTT as head of cabinet at Director Kiric? Not you, Minister Markovic. Is Minister Markovic's wife, is that nepotism, employed by PTT as head of director Ciric's cabinet? There, that's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8933	Mr Batic apologized and thanked and there is no reason for further discussion on the subject. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Mr. Petar Jojic?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say that the amendment that the colleagues have submitted, which concerns the organisation of the territory of the competent courts that are proposed by this law, is quite justified, that it should be accepted and that such a measure should be prevented and such an organisation that will cause great damage and cause enormous consequences. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from Southbanat County. There are municipal courts in Pancheva, Vrsac, Kovina, White Church, Alibunar, Plandište, Kovacica. I think the South Banatian County... That is, first I'd start with the Municipal Court in Kovacica. The municipal court in Kovacica was founded long ago in 1872. It employs eight Serbs, 11 Slovakians, two Romanians, two Hungarians, and one is an employee of Macedonian nationality. So the national structure of the judges is: Serbs, Slovaks and Romanians. In this court, there is an opportunity to conduct court proceedings in three languages: Slovak, Romanian and Hungarian. All the languages of the national minorities are listed in daily communication with the parties in use. The inflow of the case in the Municipality Court of Kovacica for 2005 was 1445 cases, in 2006 1476 cases, in the year 1420 cases. Subjects that do not refer to litigation and criminal proceedings were 11,146 in 2005, 12,203 cases in 2006, with 11,634 cases in 2007. Overall, the items received for these three years were: 12,589 in 2005, for 2006 13.679, and in 2007 13.054 cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the court power in Kovacica began to develop after the abolition of the Banatian military border and the adoption of the law of 1871, declaring Pančevo the center of the Royal Meeting Court, whose jurisdiction included the meeting courts in Panchev, Alibunar, Kovacica, Perlez, and later in Kovin. The Royal Meeting Court in Kovacica was founded in 1872. His jurisdiction spread to the area of Baranda, Crepaje, Fatty, Jarkovac, Opova, Padina. Since its formation, this court has worked uninterrupted until 1946, when it was abolished and the entire jurisdiction has been transferred to the Meeting Court in Pancheva. In April 1950, the Sreski Court was re-formed in Kovacica, which worked until 1952, after which it was abolished, to decide by the Executive Council on the 20th of Vojvodina. 4. In 1955 he was formed, with work began 1. 1. In 1956, since he's been working uninterrupted until today. This court in Kovacica from 1960 to today bears the name - Municipality Court in Kovacica. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this municipal court should not be disbanded, or it should not be a judicial unit. This court must be detained as a municipal, or if the name is changed, then in that case it should be a basic court. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this court is concerned, all the rights of all national minorities are sufficiently ensured, and it is well known that most of the citizens living in the municipality of Kovacica are Slovaks, Serbs, Hungarians and Romanians. As a result, this court must retain its seat and carry out its duties, as it would be difficult for this court to be abolished and remain a unit and attach itself to the basic court in Pancheva. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Covin Community Court, it was founded in 1782, 166 years uninterrupted this court exists in the city of Kovin. Before World War II, there was also a court in Pancheva. After World War II, the Crescent Court in Kovin becomes the Municipal Court in Kovin. Nine judges have been scheduled for decades back for the Kovin Municipal Court, and it is not clear how it is now determined that the Kovin court is to be relocated; it was originally proposed in the Bill to be Vrsac, however, following the amendments tabled and after the Prime Minister accepted my amendment and my fellow Members' amendment would be attached to the basic court in Pancheva. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the last census of the population for 2002, the Kovin municipality has 36,802 inhabitants, and of which Kovin has a maximum - 14,250, Bavanište - 6,106, Gaj - 3,302, Deliblato - 3.498, Dubovac - 1.283, Malo Bavanište - 420, Mramorak - 3.145, Pločica - 2,044, Skorenovac, in which mainly Hungarians live - 2,574, Šumarak - 180. The Kovin municipality is a multinational municipality. In the metal municipality, according to the 2002 census, lives: 28,246 Serbs, 3,408 Hungarians, 1,363 Romanians, 180 Montenegrins, 361 Yugoslavs, nine Albanians, two Bosniaks, 117 Bulgarians, 35 Vlah, 143 Macedonians, 95 Muslims, 50 Germans, 1,193 Roma, 10 Russians, three Russians, 44 Slovaks, 30 Slovenians, 10 Ukrainians, 114 Croats, 158 Czechs, others and those who have not declared themselves to be 918. Who in this factual situation in the Kovin municipality can ignore and neglect this number of our fellow citizens living in the territory of the Kovin municipality? Almost all nationalities live in the area of this municipality. The municipality court in Kovin is equipped with a court – a new building, the equipment of a newer date. There are judges who have proven their expertise in their work; there have been no cases of abuse and corruption detected in these judges. What matters is this: it is important that we must not allow our citizens in the territory of these municipalities, both Kovina and Kovace, to exercise their fundamental human rights. This means that many will give up court proceedings. Many will not dare press charges and go to Panchevo. Second, the costs won't be... There is no such thing as here, Madam Minister, there is an apparent picture here that the proposals of these laws will achieve something more advanced than before. I believe that on the globe of the Earth, and especially in Europe, we have not had for the last 50 years such a measure – that the state makes a decision, that is to say, to make laws and to simply delete 104 courts. Please, will efficiency be achieved? He won't. Is this celery? It's not. Is it an emergency? No, I don't. There's general papaziania, that's what I'm telling you. To go gradually, measure by measure, could be accepted and believed that we would have the opportunity to perfect, improve and improve effectively. What are we going to do about the buildings where the present courts are? The same real estate, the same building, remains security, remains to be spent electricity, to use water, to pay for heating. So there's nothing there that's going to shrink. But what's problematic, at least we lawyers know, here, colleagues who are in parliament know, all the seats of these proposed courts, which are supposed to be basic courts, they need, maltenes, another palace of justice. Because now how are you going to move the judges from Alibunar, Kovin, Kovacs to trial in Pancheva? There's not enough business space in Pancheva anyway. What trial schedule can judges make when and existing judges, 47-48, now in Pancheva, can't provide courtrooms for the days to come? How will that happen? Secondly, you need a vehicle for every judge, you need a dactylograph, you need a driver, that's the cost. Furthermore, when it comes to this multinational environment, you know that we have problems with translators anyway, that we have problems with witches, and all that in Kovin, White Church, Vrsac, Plandišče, Alibunar, where the majority of the population of Romanian nationality lives; in Kovacica, where most of the Slovaks live, we have a stable situation and we have well-organised courts. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the same situation when it comes to the Court of Justice in the White Church. First, it was the Royal Court, founded in 1782. You see, the tradition of that court takes so many years, and we now need to make it impossible for citizens to exercise their right by going to the court they're used to; these are their courts. We from the Serbian Radical Party are pushing for citizens to exercise their rights where they have so far been exercised. Please, I'm not your opinion. You have your opinion. You've probably had a chance to make a deal or have someone suggest you build a seat like this. No, please, the distance of the court and the distance of citizens from individual courts is very problematic. I say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (President Gordana Komic: Time is 15 minutes and 30 seconds. Member of the Parliament, the time available to your MP group has been used. ) Thank you very much. I've got this second amendment, I'll take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8935	National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8936	Madam President, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, as of November 1st, when the proposal for a set of judicial laws arrived at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is trying to understand the concept of a new proposal for a solution to the network of courts and public prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, we have a great understanding of all the objections of MPs and MPs to the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, but we have specifically analysed the effect of this draft law on the AP Vojvodina. We agree that there is no excuse to continue in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to work 45 municipal courts, but we are surprised at the proposal that quality for all citizens can be realised by all what is expected of the judiciary at the EU level with eight basic courts. For all we know, there's a court of law in Sremska Mitrovica. During the amendments to this law, we agreed that the amendment regarding Srema was submitted by counterpart Ratkovic, who is far better acquainted with the opportunities, and that is also his profession. As we can see (he will probably explain his amendment later), he suggested that a basic court be formed in Ruma for municipalities: Indjia, Irig, Caves, Ruma and Stara Pazova. South Baka has been mentioned by several parliamentary groups and MPs who have submitted amendments to the proposal for this law regarding southern Bacakh. It is evident that 12 municipalities, consisting of the South Baba District, are scheduled to be established by a basic court in Novi Sad, and municipalities such as Vrbas, Bačka Palanka, Vienna should be left without a municipal, or basic court from 1 January 2010; the needs of the judiciary in their midst will be met with the judicial unit of the basic court in Novi Sad. For my credit, the solution in Banat is, in my opinion, if this concept is taken into account. So, Banat is well covered in basic courts, we have Kickinda, Zrenjanin, Vršac and Pancheva. As far as we're concerned, compared to Srem and Buck, it's a great suggestion. My amendment applies, to those who have not read, to Northern Buck and read – Article 3(1). The bill adds a new point 1), which reads: "The main court in Backo Topola, for the territory of the municipalities of Ada, Backo Topola, Mali Ijoš and Senta, with judicial units in Ada and Senta". The other parts of the amendment are the technical regulation of the law. Baka Topol, I have proposed for the headquarters of the basic court because of its position in relation to the other three municipalities, as well as because it is the intersection of the roads: Corridor 10, means, both the E-75 and E-5 roads, as well as the Belgrade-Budapest railways; then, the regional roads M-21 and M-22, which connect Romania with Croatia and the Republic of Hungary; both of these regional roads pass through the centre of several populated towns of Bačka Topol municipality. The dissociation of the Municipality of Bačka Topol: 23 inhabited places, the distance between these places is individual and more than 60 kilometers, for example, the distance between Cavil and Pachira is more than 60 km. There are four official languages in the territory of the municipality of Backo Topol: Serbian, Hungarian, Russian and Slovak. The municipality of Backo Topola, compared to these three municipalities, has the largest population. The current equipment of the City Court in Backo Topoli can absolutely meet the needs of the General Court of Backo Topola. The court tradition in Backo Topoli is longer than 140 years; through 15 states in which the court has, in various forms, worked on the satisfaction of citizens and judicial authorities, and now the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to abolish it. These four municipalities spread: from east to west, meaning from the new Tisa bridge near Ada to Gornja Rogatica, there are more than 80 km and from north to south, from Mali Belgrade to Feketic, there are more than 40 km. Back Topola's basic court would cover the territory of the four municipalities of which about 110,000 inhabitants live. So it would belong to, on the basis of this criterion, middle by size. He would be ranked with basic courts, for example, in Piroth and Paracino, and far larger than the basic courts in Bor, Prokuplje, Požega and the like. What has made us particularly insistent on this fundamental court is the specificity of this region in which this court would be located, which is that more than 70% of the citizens belonging to the Hungarian national community live in these four municipalities. When this is known, it is not difficult to assume that in more than half of the work that has been done in the judiciary in this territory can and should be used Hungarian. Our idea is that in the main court, Backo Topola, more than in other basic courts, judges and others who can work in Serbian and Hungarian, can be represented, so that citizens can be addressed in Russian and Slovak languages. If the bill adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia was passed to the National Assembly, the basic court in Subotica would certainly be overloaded, it would cover the territory of Tisa, Srbobran, Vrbasa, Kula, Sombora, all the way to the border with the Republic of Hungary. Most of you know how much this territory is, and the percentage of the Hungarian-speaking population would be at least halved in relation to the area covered by Bačka Topola's basic court, as I suggested, and that would certainly affect the treatment of Hungarian. Among other things, we heard yesterday about the current treatment of Hungarian language in the Saturday judiciary. The maternal relationship of Backo Topola towards Mali Ijoš certainly exists, but no closer to the extent to which he is present in relation to Subotica towards Bačka Topoli, Senti and Ada and the relationship of all Subotics to all Adams, Saints and Backi Topolas. In addition to this proposal, my next fact is that all parliamentary groups that have proposed amendments to this bill have proposed to form a basic court in Backo Topoli. Finally, I am taking the opportunity to thank all the MPs and MPs who supported me yesterday and I expect it to be today, because in the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina we appreciate that this would be and what a good solution to the network of our courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8937	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. After him, the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic, and the messenger of the people, Bozidar Delic, are the order of the announcements. The deputy secretary of the National Assembly notes the order of reporting and gives the word in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, may I inform you that I have accepted your apology regarding the slip in the report on the work of the National Assembly Committee. Our member of the committee is a prominent lawyer, an outstanding MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta. We from the Serbian Radical Party think there is no need to work on the law on Divcibars when there are perfectly decent working conditions here. But we also care to see what the government has done in the matter of notifying the MPs about the malfeasances that have taken place in public enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this law on the seat and area of courts and public prosecutors, which has 19 members, has been tabled 122 amendments; 13 amendments have been accepted and 109 have not been accepted. A total of 37 amendments have been submitted to Article 3 of this Act. The amendment that defends no less than 104 municipal courts is an amendment submitted by Mrs. Milica Radovic. I think it is a comprehensive amendment, by respecting all amendments from other fellow MPs, as well as Radovan Radovanovic, where specific amendments are being made, relating to a particular area. No offense to other colleagues, and I'm gonna do it this time. Namely, I come from Machvan County where there are eight municipal courts. We've heard here that the name is municipal anachron. We believe that these courts should continue to be called municipal, but, essentially, if the name is basic, it will not change significantly, and the county, not higher, because administrative districts exist as a category in the Law on Territorial Organization. So, if you would accept this amendment... Madam Minister, you will avoid that qualification that someone has said here that you risk being a gravedigger of the Serbian judiciary on condition that you accept an amendment to Article 3 of this law, or that this law fully withdraws from the procedure. This is not our concept or even the concept of the Democratic Party; this is the concept of the European Union. You accept the proposals and initiatives of the European Union that Serbian citizens will benefit from, but do not know for sure (and you are convinced) that it will harm the citizens of Serbia. I said that there are seven municipal courts in the area where I come from, and that: in Šapac, Vladimirs, Koceljeva, Bogtić, Loznica, Ljubija and Krupnje. Now, according to this law, there are only two basic courts. Citizens of this area are not used to it, but they, I would say, are quite effective in exercising their rights with this network of courts. I don't go into individual judgments, it's hard to talk about from this place; you know, when someone comes to the court, there are two sides, one will certainly be dissatisfied, and the subject of my debate won't be that, but I think this network of courts in the area of the County Court of Capco was quite satisfactory. The parameters you presented in the context of the first amendment, which you did not accept, are the following: geographical distance, which is something that is not sufficiently accounted for. If I tell you that this bill provides for a basic court in Uzic and the next, by line or route, is the basic court in Loznica, the distance between these two places is 150 km, of which 120, next to the Drina River, which is, I repeat again, unfortunately, the border between the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The basic court in Baja Basta is being suspended and the primary court in Ljubovija is being abolished. So the distance between two basic courts is 150 kilometers. Near the border – the place of Ljubovija is right on the border, because across the street are Bratunac and Srebrenica. In particular, if some exceptions can be made, although I am, in principle, also the SRS, that this amendment to Article 3 preserves another 104 municipal courts, about near the border, because it is, therefore, at the border. The density of population is, unfortunately, something that I, as a man who comes from Love, cannot boast because migration from this small town is constantly occurring. I'm absolutely sure that's what the citizens tell me, not the judges in that place, that if the municipal court in Ljubovia happens, that trend will continue. The proximity of tourist resorts – our Serbia is indeed a beautiful country, but rarely any of the MPs (maybe now I am little and subjective) can boast of the tourist sights that the whole of Podrinje owns, and I think that Love precedes it. If I were to remind you, Soko-city was the last foothold of the Turks and I don't think they would have made it either (there was no municipal court in Ljubovija at that time, it was somewhat later established) such a decision. So, monastery Soko-grad, ethnoselo Bobby, Pussy Stone and a series of other tourist destinations and attractions. So, out of the total of four parameters that you, you say, have advocated, only one, unfortunately, citizens, I can say Serbia, and in particular Love, does not meet these conditions. But there is something else that is very important, which is the tendency of increasing the number of court cases: in 2008, in the first six months, 3,681 cases were received, and the work was 4.266; 3,976, and 290 were completed. In that municipal court, there is no such thing as old objects. In addition to this, I will point out that there is a number of villages that are 40 kilometers from the municipality's headquarters. It is Gornja Košlje, Orovička Planina, Gornja and Donja Orovica, Tornik and some other places, where it only traffics bus traffic once a week, on drinking days in the place. There's nothing better in the county of Krupanj, and I think this should be considered when adopting this amendment. If a law like this happens, though I doubt... Which makes me doubt why I'm based on my claim that he won't be accepted? Members of all parliamentary groups have tabled amendments, 122 amendments, and if they vote for this law, it will prove that these amendments did not have an honest intention, and I am sure they did. All MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups they are from, have made very strong arguments here to accept these amendments or to withdraw this law, or to retain an old organisational scheme, if I may so call it. I must remind you that the Municipal Court of Love has its own tradition. It was established on the basis of laws on the establishment of meeting and district courts in the Belgrade Court of Appeal on November 29th 1930; a meeting court in Ljubovija was established at the time. Civil disputes were 229, criminal cases 260 and others, i.e. a total of 2,391, which already showed the justification of the existence of this court. If it happens that the Municipal Court in Ljubovija, Bogitis, Baja Basta and other places are lifted, I am talking about this piece that is closer to me, respecting the arguments of colleagues who are related to the places where they come from, we will have accelerated migration. Of course, in that case, even lawyers won't have to work in those places and will leave, at best, in places where the basic courts are based, and perhaps in another. I'm sure that's not the solution because certain municipal sites are also recognizable by their municipal courts. The argument here is that there will be savings if such an organisational scheme is accepted. I claim that there is certainly no savings in this case, and you know that because you said so, there will remain objects, there will remain courts, there will be some left. In particular, if municipal courts in Krupnje and Ljubovija are abolished, space will have to be provided in Loznica. You say there will be savings, and I tell you that not only because of this space, but because the judges from Loznica, i.e. from Baja Basta, Ljubovija, Krupnje, Bogatić and other places will have to travel to places where they are based. You said that in small courts it was that everyone knew each other's precondition for judicial corruption, and then someone else would have to come. So, the judge from Love will travel to Loznica, but he will come from Osijek to Love to solve a particular case during the day. You're saying that citizens will be able to submit their demands in all the places where they've had municipal courts so far. We know that, we haven't had to go to court before to file a complaint in person, but we could have sent it through the mail. It's not a problem and it's not a dispute, it's what when the trial is given, when the debates have to go to a place where the basic court is based, and that's certainly what it indicates is there's no justification for the abolition of these courts. In the judicial system, something else should have been done – "get rid of" those judges and prosecutors who were not worthy of their duties, who were not professional or deliberately professional, if they had been tried by some political parties or some people outside the area of justice. We have to do this today and we will have to do it in the period when (if established) another organisational network. Let me give you a practical example of how dangerous it is in a place that is 120km by the border: when determining detention for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina we must act quickly, and then we will have to have a judge from Loznica or elsewhere, and Mali Zvornik is a place that has never had a municipal court before. There was a traffic accident on that route, and there was a paralyzing traffic on the highway, so there was an investigative judge waiting for two hours, and from the opposite direction it was an emergency; it was perhaps a car accident, a health problem where he had to react urgently and drive to the Health Center in Loznica; thanks to humanity (this is an example from practice) of those people living near the crash site, the vehicle was carried over these fields so that it could continue. Madam Minister, on these specific proposals, both my colleagues and my colleagues, you must take care of them. The best way to solve these problems is to accept all 37 amendments, as submitted to this Article 3. The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, or the acceptance of Mrs. Milica Radovic's amendment, which otherwise covered all our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8939	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8940	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Radicals, as I will speak about student issues, show that you are also against students in Serbia. Gentlemen, we've been discussing judicial laws for two weeks now. The fact itself shows how important this area is in Serbia. Several important issues have been raised in this assembly, and we have already seen state authorities take action. This is about Belgrade Airport and the Civil Aviation Directorate. It is not good if the institutions and citizens alone see in us MPs the possibility of showing through us the judiciary and the prosecution the great abuses that exist today in Serbia. This letter, these documents I hold in my hand, were addressed to Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but also to all parliamentary groups, the president of Serbia, the minister of health, the minister of education and, I believe, the minister of justice, so I will read this address as soon as possible to understand what this is about. The Medical Academy sent this letter: "We address you with an appeal for protection against discrimination, violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms, labour rights, existence, learning, academic freedom and equality of property forms. The Medical Academy is the first private medical school in our country and the Balkans. It was founded by the decision of the Ministry of Education of the Government of the Republic of Serbia 16. Nine. In 2005, she has enrolled four generations of students or about 160 students. At the end of October of this year, in order to realize practical teaching on clinical subjects, the university concluded contracts indefinitely with clinical and hospital centres, namely "Dr Dragisa Misovic" and the Zemun Clinical and Hospital Centre. "There are copies of those contracts. "The discriminatory acts of the medical lobby around the state medical college in Belgrade, the health minister, and the very city of Belgrade, the management boards of these clinical centres have ordered that these contracts be repealed and put out of force, although these are contracts that are double-loaded, where there is a clause that the cancellation period cannot be shorter than a year. By the will of our health minister, students have been expelled from clinical centres and are no longer able to practice there. As a reason for the termination of the aforementioned contracts, it was noted that the clinical and hospital centres were the teaching base of the State Medical Faculty, and then it was stated that under the self-government agreement and social agreement of May 1979, these directors were not competent to conclude this type of contract and that directors were unauthorized persons and that it was a conflict of interest between the state and private medical faculty. "Gentlemen, I think you will agree with me that socialist self-government is far behind us, that in Serbia there is equality of property, both private and state, that the Faculty of Medicine in Belgrade cannot possibly have a monopoly on education and that private universities are absolutely in the same level as the state colleges. On the side of this private college, a large number of foreigners, children of diplomats working here in Belgrade, are being educated, so it can be a diplomatic problem. Here, let's say we get to the level of your profession, Madam Minister: there are private law schools, but there aren't, in fact, there shouldn't be, private courts, and maybe some are privatized. I didn't hear that there's a problem that those who study private colleges can practice in courts, because we only have one kind of court, these are state courts, so if we go from that analogy, this practice is absolutely unacceptable. Legal experts at law school gave their opinion and it's absolutely negative. In that opinion, there is no legal basis for these contracts to be broken. Also, this suggests that it is a flagrant violation of property equality in health care and health education systems. We have a different practice when it comes to some other colleges: let's say, the private dental college at the Southern Banat Health Center in Pancheva performs its practice without any problem, just like Milutin Milanković High School at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and at the Military-medical Academy. I'm only going to read here as soon as possible what the students say that you, gentlemen of the radicals, will be especially grateful for your support today. The students of this medical school have expressed their views through several points. First of all, they are asking us as Parliaments to prevent discrimination, self-will and terror committed by the health minister and the lobbyist group at the Medical Faculty. Secondly, to enable them to have basic human rights and freedoms, such as the right to education, the right to work and the right to exist. Third, to enable them to have the equality guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the relevant international legal conventions that the Republic of Serbia has ratified. Then, to prevent the lawlessness, i.e. the beating of legal acts concerning our most fundamental rights, above all, the right to education and equality of the form of property. Then, to prevent the monopolism of the state medical college with which this private college is not in any conflict of interest, but as a form of competition, it should only enable us to have better and better doctors in our country. Gentlemen, this kind of treatment at the Faculty of Medicine and by the Ministry of Health has done a great deal of damage to our higher education system, because you know that today the practical number of these private colleges is far greater than the number of state colleges and will likely be more and more in the future. On the one hand, we have a state medical college, which is partly supported by a budget and part of a scholarship, and on the other hand you have a private college, which is fully supported by tuition. This is unacceptable behavior by the Ministry of Health, especially since we have the opinion of the Faculty of Law and the opinion of the Ministry of Education. Gentlemen of the Radicals, just to let you know that there is one less of you today. (During the speech of the People's Messenger, Djidar Delic, the people's MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8941	People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, member of the 104 - dignity of the National Assembly, because the man who was talking about a crime came out for this booth, and he is a criminal himself. Sam stole the election will of the citizens. Sam stole the SRS mandate. When he returns that mandate, he can go out for this pay phone, after some of the next elections, and talk about whatever he wants, about all the negative phenomena in society. So far, he can make some gatherings on the street to gain public opinion for his views, but to appear here and hold sermons to anyone, and even those we think are criminals, it's embarrassing. Secondly, if they can't come up with anything authentic, those who call themselves advances, and in fact the party "take everything life gives you", they don't have to take notes of what the MPs of the SRS say and in their own words convince it. You yell from this pay phone to prevent lawlessness... Where to prevent lawlessness, in which sphere of social life, in which institution if we are not able to do so in this House? Let's remember what the president of his new party has said to an MP of the regime since 2000 who asked him directly – come on, come out for this pay phone and repeat what you've been saying for years, that Zoran Djindjic is the mafia prime minister. What did this Tomislav Nikolic do when he came out for this pay phone? He said he was hanging out with some criminals. He's no longer the mob prime minister. It's something else now. By your behaviour, you have promoted the Democratic Party the most. The Democratic Party is sure to thank you for that at the moment. How you'll make amends, we'll see about that in the future. Probably the same as Bogoljub Karic, because the PSS was to some extent one chance for them. If I cannot defeat them, let me join them. This is a principle that, in its own time, you must have learned a little bit from political philosophy, represented by Makiaveli – the goal justifies the means. If you want power at all costs, you will do what you do. You'll do what you do. You will continue to do dishonest work, but unfortunately, it will go to the harm of this country and to the harm of this people. At the worst possible moment, you did the dirtiest thing that has ever been recorded in Serbia's parliamentary life; the moment that Kosovo and Metohija are taking away from us, the moment they take away Vojvodina, when they prepare us for the breakaway of the Raska area. If something negative happens in this Serbia, you will be the main culprits for taking Serbia slowly into the borders of pre-Kcommanovo Serbia. That's how you'll be enrolled in history. Unfortunately, there's nothing I can do for you, but I want to warn you, first of all, because of our country's interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8943	National MP Zoran Krasic wanted to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and received word on the basis of Article 100(1), so MP Tomislav Nikolic, then MP Sulejman Spaho, then MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8944	Mrs. Comic, it's Article 27, but it's already getting chronic; it's chronically breaking Article 27, and then it's no wonder some have a chance to come here and say something by reading a dozen minutes about, apparently, something. But not to mention, it's another kind of injury. You deliberately violate Article 27 to cover up BIA's dirtiest activity, headed by Miki Rakic. For your information, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, inform the neighbourhood and friends, BIA has also placed itself in the role of those who need to install EULEX and should warm it up in the Republic of Serbia as a real policy. Of course, then you use different moves. One of the moves is a set of judicial laws that will take place on hip summer. But the point is, there's no talking about Eulex. The point is, there's no talking about the budget. The point is not to talk about the monetary situation in the Republic of Serbia, about social issues and everything that bothers the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What you had a chance to hear earlier is the decor of a designed system, and this is a system for Serbia to be destroyed by the fact that the National Assembly and the public are dealing with something that is a crime, and the competent state authorities don't want to deal with this crime. Remember, at the head of it, of course, Boris Tadic, but there is his right hand, big man, Miki Rakic and BIA Vukadinovic, who are fully in the service of foreign intelligence services and are working to break the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you of one thing: when radicals in prison, Serbia breaks apart; when they radicals are free, Serbia is strong, Serbia is stronger. Remember that. That's the point of all this. What you had a chance to hear earlier is technique. It's the way to do the dirty work, the dirty, the dirtiest it can be, so the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can have fun with something. Of course, when it first happens, it's a surprise. When that comes the second time, it's a surprise. But when it happens the third time, it's not a surprise. You know what's behind it and you know what this socio-history moment means. It is important, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to believe in your Serbian Radical Party, to believe in Vojislav Seselj. Fire tonight at ten o'clock The second channel to watch Serbia defend itself, defending Serbian national interests, defending this people's dignity. Join us in this fight for Serbia's freedom. If you're already writing and asking to get rid of something, and you're asking MPs, write to the Serbian Radical Foreigner. If Todorovic hadn't read this data for days, this issue would never have been resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8945	There's no damage to article 27. There are insufficient application of Article 27, but it was not the subject of your exposure, in the part of the custody of the agenda. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8946	Article 104. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept that you can call almost every MP, both a thief and a criminal, that's what he says about you, but call the unworthy, unworthy and criminal of Bozidar Delic, I would drown in a septic cave if I told the man who defended Serbia that he was a criminal. All you have to do is drown. I told you, don't make me angry, I'll respond positively to the demands of some of you to join us. I said, you do politics, don't jerk off wool under the benches. I begged you to keep what we've gained together, but it's not worth it, you've decided to go down a big hill, nothing on that hill can stop you. I'm just sorry for you. I know that some of you already hate me right now, I don't understand why, but I see by sight and I see by your expressions; even they shouldn't hate me, I'm their great friend and today. So, I'm sorry, General Delic, much greater harm has been done to you today than when Tadic retired you at the age of 48, but I ask you to understand that they don't know what they're doing, and those who don't know what they're doing are forgiven.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8947	People's MP Tomislav Nikolic was right to say that a member of the 104th was injured because during his presentation, MPs from second to 10th row, banging on the inventory hindered the speaker from speaking, and there were discards. So, I failed to apply Article 27 in the agenda custody work, and Article 104, which prohibits the interference of speakers, is injured in the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The People's Parliament is looking for a replica. Since there are MPs who want to talk about the injury, you can use the right to replicate it only after the list of MPs who want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure is exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I report to members 104, 225 and 226. Article 104 refers to the dignity of the Assembly, and I will ask for two notices, i.e. explanations from the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Defence, from Sutanovac. Unlike Tomislav Nikolic, I apologize to Serbian President Boris Tadic for criticising him when he retired General Delic. So, I apologize to Boris Tadic. Mr. Delic, Vojislav Seselj told me, when you deserted: "Jadranko, you are one of those who raised this man into clouds. "Yes, Mr. President, it's me. "I thought you were an honorable man, but, Mr. Delicius, you know, and I was a little soldier, what you did in the SRS, if it were a state of war, you'd be shot. You're a deserter, Mr. Delic. So you're a deserter. Let me tell you something else, Mr. Delic, you testified in the case of Slobodan Milosevic, and you enlightened Racak. Well done. The late Slobodan Milosevic called Vojislav Seselj and begged him, since he was in the party there, that you would come to us because he thought... So if I'm lying, you'll be able to face Vojislav Seselj next year. As for what you said - another, Mr. Delich, don't be afraid of us, let whoever goes. But you've been talking about colleges here, education, students we respect, respect, and there's the distinguished Mrs. Malovic... Now I will ask one question to the police minister, and you will hear the answer – how is it possible for Alexander Vukic to return to your Professor Antic's door at night at two o'clock a.m. Let him answer which unit he was working at the time and how he could bring it back from the door of UBPOK who came to arrest him. It's against him... That's what Vucic told us, here's 20 witnesses - I returned at two o'clock last night, I woke up Minister Jocic. I say hello to this man and I want him to get well. He did it to him. You're protecting the students, and you know why UBPOK came to that man's door. So, the question is, I'm asking the Minister of Police... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic. So, Mr. Delician, don't talk about morality either, because you're an immoral man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8949	I warn the MPs that in their intention to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, they are bound to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which define the way we address one another in the congregation. People's MP Suleyman Spaho wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? He doesn't want to. ) National MP Lidija Vukicevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8950	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the respected chairman, respected Madam Ministers, Serbian radicals do not deal with the collection, collection and number of MPs in the Assembly, Serbian radicals deal with the number of missing, dead, lost, killed in Kosovo and Metohija. Thus, this afternoon, Mr Dragan Todorovic, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, Mr Milorad Buha and I, were in the Association of Families Killed and Kidnapped. We came across a very sad picture. I don't think that should be convinced, I think it's the duty of each of us MPs, including the citizens of Serbia, to go and look at what the Association of Families of Kidnapped, Missing and Dead from Kosovo and Metohija looks like. So you can only feel it, it can't be apologized, it can't be convinced. I want to point out this and remind the state that it does nothing to bring back internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, and we know that 250,000 Serbs are no longer in Kosovo and Metohija. For nine years people have been struggling; they are in exile, instead of being allowed by the state to return to their hearths. In Kosovo, it was killed, you all know, 2,500 Serbs, and 1,300 Serbs are missing. Let's let ten people go missing, it has to be examined and these people have to be found. It's this number I told you, when we add up that's 3,800 people, it's on the Pay Wall, which was created by the Association of Families of Murdered and Kidnapped from Kosovo and Metohija. In front of the Wall of Salutations are people in black, mothers, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunts, looking for help. They're asking for help from a representative of the radical party because we responded and went to see and to cooperate in their huge problem that... I don't know, but there's really no word to say anything on that subject or to apologize, except that each of us, God forbid, put ourselves in that situation and feel the problem they're living with. The state must press for missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to be treated according to international law, to find themselves alive or dead, anyway, but they must be found. All those missing and their families absolutely deserve... (President: National MPs, you are required to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring. ) Mrs. Komic, members of 225 and 226. (President: Please request a notice in the next 20 seconds. ( ) Why does the Government not answer this question that is priority? I think that everything we do in the Assembly, every agenda should be respected, but I also think, Mrs. Komic, that at least 20 times in the Rules of Procedure, on this issue, each of the MPs should answer. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Do you allow me to finish or report back to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8951	People's MPs, the time available for a speaker who appears after the breach of the Rules of Procedure is three minutes. I am informing every speaker that it is three minutes and thirty seconds, because it is understood that 30 seconds is enough for the speaker to complete thought and exposure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8952	You're a little nervous, Mr. Nikolic, I imagine, in the absence of your chief ideologist, Alexander Vukic, who went to Croatia a little while, I assume he apologizes to the Croats, by reputation of some of his predecessors. I don't know what he's looking for there if he gives up Republika Srpska and the historic borders of the Serbian state. Since that no longer exists for you, you must confess to the people of Serbia when you lied to them and as long as you are willing to lie to them and as long as you think you can lie to them, whether you lied to them until two months ago or lie to them now. At one point you were a liar. Which, I don't know, but I guess time will tell. Besides being a liar, you're such a criminal. The other day, I was showing an Avala TV invoice that now owes us for some contract that isn't even protocold to the SRS. I ask you how many such contracts exist and are they reported in the RIK report? Did you commit a crime? Here, I ask those in charge who saw this report, given that many of the invoices from the election campaign were not paid, and you, in the name of the Serbian Radical Party, along with your Arsic and other amoebas, whose name I don't even want to mention, submitted a report that you received all the money from the state, in accordance with the law. So these invoices differ from other invoices, first of all, by the fact that there are no service specifications, or how many reports or any other services are provided by, say, "Avale", and there is TV Vojvodina, and "Birograf" and anything. I guess this is Vucic's campaign. It says here, "on agreement with the Wolf." That's what we're gonna send him to pay. As many millions as it is, it doesn't matter, it will all be done by the competent state authorities, I hope, in accordance with the law. It's about morality, but I guess it's a prerequisite for politics. I guess you've convinced the people that they should believe you, that what you're saying is deep down, that's the idea you want to go forward with, so we've probably got so many votes. But in the end, it turned out that a large number of Serbian radicals, of course, remain in their ideology, and that one has found some new ideology, and that ideology is called betrayal and that ideology is called money.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8953	Please correct the stenogram. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic used the right to replica by Article 101. My mistake was to give her my word based on Article 100(1). On the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP, Zoran Krasic, wants to speak and gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), followed by MP Bozidar Delic, and after that, MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8954	Mrs. Comic, I'd like to call on Article 27 again, but don't realize you're the only one. That would also happen if Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic were in your shoes. What's this about? I think it is impossible to chair the National Assembly's session in these conditions when the BIA, headed by Miki Rakic and Vukadinovic, is conducting a kind of hack in the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of handing over and selling Kosovo and Metohija and, in the nearer perspective, Vojvodina is undetectable because citizens would be dealing with something called the situation in the National Assembly. Just to remind you, this is the kind of chairmanship of the National Assembly sessions and this work of the National Assembly that we have come into the situation of a large number of citizens serving as alibis in the stolen parliamentary mandate, or something that needs to provide immunity protection in perspective. I explained that question to you this morning. Of course, in addition to Vukadinovic, Miki Rakic and Boris Tadic, who are working to destroy Serbia, remember, I know that you from the Democratic Party have nothing to do with it, I know that you are also disgusted by this situation, and I must inform you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, yesterday I read to you Article 3. A law on the financing of political parties: The Democratic Party spent 25 times more money during the previous election campaign than it submitted in the report. In order to cover it up, one statement applies: if you have had an election campaign, you do not pay TV's bills immediately, but according to a court ruling, after the elections have been made, because it does not go into the cost of the election campaign. Just to inform Serbian citizens that those who ran the financing in the Serbian Radical Party have fled from the Serbian Radical Party and are acting as MPs here. Just to inform those of the Bank "Intez": The Serbian Radical Party, based on 78 mandates, has won a hundred and a few million dinars. Powered persons, at the time, who escaped in the meantime and are now wise here (and there's that unfortunate Arsic, and he was an authorised person) who didn't want to return that loan that was illegally taken, but they paid some of their half-private bills, and the invoices, not to tell you how much, with the hint of Dusica Nikolic, they took the money into their hands, took Vukic. I will not deliberately call these media as my own accomplices in this dirty business, but I am taking the opportunity to resolve the problem of crime, to first open the issue of crime and to finance the Democratic Party's election campaign, not because of you who are present here, but because of Gilas, Boris Tadic and this deaf man here who won't hear. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. To open the question, so when the issue of your campaign opens, then you'll arrest these yourself, we won't have to do what you just said about him coming out of the septic pit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8955	There's no violation of Article 27, except there's no full application of Article 27, but that's not what you're calling for. National MP Lidija Vukicevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8956	So, I said that this previous story of the missing, killed and dead from Kosovo and Metohija is responsible and responsible for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, so I ask the government for an answer: when will it begin to deal with it once and when will it take seriously already once again, how big a problem is it for Serbia not to know the number of missing, not to know whether they have died or been killed and can they understand what agony their family members live in? According to international law, they must be found, either alive or dead. All missing, as well as their families, have the right to one civilizational relationship; they have the right to be buried, if they are dead, according to Orthodox custom. The association I was talking about and this magazine called "Cosmetic Victims." By the way, the other day in the congregation, we were discussing the law on associations. This association, the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed, expects to obtain the status of an association of special national importance under the Association Act. Otherwise, on the cover of this magazine... All those who have a heart, who have a soul, who have a family, will shake these sentences, and now I will read them, only three: "Give us a place where we will lay our loved ones flowers" -- that is one of the sentences. The second sentence is, "When will justice be for Serbian victims? "The third sentence is: "It is a sin to remain silent about the loss of Serbs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8957	National MP Bozidar Delic asked for a word of injury to the Rules of Procedure. He's not here. The word is by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), so MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8958	Mrs. Komic, I call on Article 104. You have done this injury, because you have an overly passive relationship with the current issues that are potent from this pay phone, and especially you have one ignoring attitude when I act as a problem, and I interpret it in such a way as to show an appropriate dose of impatience to my suggestions. Since I've obviously failed to convince you so far, I'm going to take the opportunity now and in the future, several times during this evening, to reach the impossible mission, to perhaps convince you. If I fail to convince you, I am absolutely certain that I will convince all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the truth of what I am up to as a burning problem of the Republic of Serbia. The first is BIA, director of Vukadinovic, cabinet chief Boris Tadic Miki Rakic, Boris Tadic, tycoons and financials and those holding media in the Republic of Serbia, such as Dragan Dilas. Public opinion is being created to draw attention from the burning problems in the Republic of Serbia: Kosovo and Metohija, Vojvodina, the economic and social situation of citizens. Just to remind you who these people are doing it. I have repeatedly asked the Security Committee how it is possible not to resolve the issue of drugs in the Republic of Serbia. I said openly – until the issue is resolved, until drugs are thrown off the streets of the Republic of Serbia, the main culprit is BIA. They did everything to confirm my claim. They have now joined the Hague tribunal. What do they want to do? He wants to weaken the Serbian Radical Party. Why? Because it's the only dam of these dirty work that's being prepared with Serbia. Different methods are used. One of these methods is that a man makes a name for other people's money, owes the party, makes a contract that predicts and divides, and even puts in the contract a provision to protect the environment, as if it builds a house. Then he's smart enough to worry, to worry. What's he worried about, what's he worried about? Only to do what is required of him, to weaken the fact of the Serbian Radical Party and to force Vojislav Seselj to end the procedure there with a tragic outcome, identical to that of Slobodan Milosevic. Who's bothering you? It bothers the entire leadership of the Serbian Radical Party. A few days ago, there was an attack on Todorovic. Today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it's gonna be on me, it's gonna be on me. Why? People who do not call for immunity are attacked, and immunity is recognised for those who stole the mandates. Who's guarding those stolen mandates? Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic, who designed the whole system. It's a cruel truth in Serbia. Let's open the issue of funding the Democratic Party's election campaign and we'll solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8959	Three minutes and thirty seconds. There's no breach of Article 104. There are all members of the Rules of Procedure, but there are no injuries to Rule 104. National MP Zoran Krasic is not pleased, I pray that in the day for the vote, the Assembly declares the injured done to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 100, I appeal to members 225 and 226. I was one of the members of the SRS who attended a meeting with the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing from Kosovo and Metohija. I would suggest that all MPs go to those rooms and see this horror and that anger, that "Wall pays" where images of nearly three thousand kidnapped and murdered Serbs are exhibited in Kosovo and Metohija. I ask for an explanation and an explanation from the government of the Republic of Serbia why these victims are hiding, why little attention is being paid to alleviate the pain of the families of those who have been killed, as well as the family whose members have been kidnapped. I don't know what time I'm talking, there's something harder than death, and that's kidnapping. You don't know how these families behave, and I know all these families, I have many friends whose family members are kidnapped and I know what condition these families are in. I remember that first kidnapping, which took place in May 1998 on a spear in Belacevec, when the kidnappers Mirko Trifunovic, Bozidar Lejpic, Srboljub Savic, Mirko Buha were kidnapped. That was the first kidnapping. When? When there was no indication there would be a war, there would be a bombing, there would be anything. Then, at that quiet time, these guys were kidnapped, those workers who worked in a mine on a dig in Belatcevec. From that day to this day, nothing is known, not just for them, but for more than 1,300 kidnapped people. I ask that the government invest a lot more energy and resources to discover the fate of these people. On the other hand, I was asked by the representatives of the Association to ask a parliamentary question – since many of the perpetrators of these crimes that took place at KIM were arrested and imprisoned in the Republic of Serbia, who and whose order was released by the Mazrek brothers, who were sentenced by a judicial verdict and maintained a 20-year prison sentence in Pozarevec? I ask the MUP to answer that question in order to see whose hand it was signed that criminals who have confessed to a crime against Serb non-monetaries are free and live on the loose today and that Serbian families continue to grieve over those crimes committed by the Mazreka brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8961	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8962	Mrs. Comic, I'm going to state again as the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I'm just drawing attention to the public of the Republic of Serbia that you've been in a situation twice this morning to explain six and seven minutes why no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. For the sake of the public, I have to say that the advertising of the Rules of Procedure's injuries lasts for three minutes, and you've repeatedly explained six or seven minutes, and you've argued why you're right. To my previous intervention, you've been practically responding for ten seconds. It's a kind of confession. I know that you are neither authorized nor responsible to enter into themes and to resolve the issues that I am discussing from this assembly pay phone. But I must draw your attention to the fact that it violates the dignity of all the MPs in the National Assembly and the public should know – as far as what happens with the SRS' kidnapped mandates, of the 250 MPs of the National Assembly, I do not believe that you have five MPs who support it, I do not believe. They support those who have to carry out Boris Tadic's warrant, Miki Rakic. Please, you're wondering who Mickey Rakic is. Well, he was taken to The Hague when we were on the team, when he went as a legal advisor. He led this Miki Rakic and introduced him to us in Cheveningen as head of the cabinet of the President of the Republic, the smart man who holds all this, who is in relations with the CIA, MIA, BIA and all others. Of course, we ran away from that scarecrow, so that someone wouldn't identify us with him. All he wanted to finish was through Miki Rakic. Why isn't Wolf an MP? So you don't report your property. That's the right line. Smile. That's the kind of goo he's gonna play with. You don't know what BIA can do to get the dirty work done. Finally, please, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let us all ask the question of how the Democratic Party financed its election campaign, how much money it spent, which the media hired; what media hired for a positive campaign, which media for a negative campaign. We've got research, let's open up the accounts to see who paid what. When an answer is found to the question of who financed his election campaign, 99% of crime and all unresolved problems in Serbia will be resolved. Here, we radicals suggest it. I know there are other people who can't wait to get rid of it, but BIA blocked it. On whose orders? Well, people, they got a warrant a few days ago to ban the TV show. They say it's an anti-Hax show. They create us, please, and feelings, what are we going to look at, what taste... He's creating everything for us, who? Miki Rakic, BIA, Vukadinovic and all those who appear as helpers for these current interests of survival in the Assembly, allegedly as MPs, to protect them from something they did. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8963	There is no breach of Article 104 because the explanation you give is not related to the procedure at the session and during the session. That's why my explanation for why there's no breach of Article 104 lasts only ten seconds, because I'm sure you know that. National MP Bozidar Delic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8964	The Honorable Chairman, violation of Article 104 - violation of the dignity of the Members of Parliament and of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just wanted to say through a few words that, gentlemen of the radicals, you shouldn't have double standards. Three days ago, MP Lidija Vukicevic spoke about the same problem, the problem of students from this private university; you welcomed it then, and today you were against it. As for Mr. Vukovic, the term you used, Mr. Vukovic, desertion, exists only in the war and applies only to the military. Leaving your party is no problem, but unlike most of you, when I last spoke to Mr. Seselj, I told him in his face what I had to tell him, and most of you then kept quiet and approved that the party would be torn apart. As for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija and what you say I'm a traitor, when you say that, gentlemen, it can never hit me. I was at war in Croatia, in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Kosovo and Metohija. I've never met any of you there, even if you came to visit those who defended Serbian states both in Kosovo and Metohija Serbia. Under my command, only in Kosovo and Metohija in 1998 and 1999 were 30,000 people. 87 people died and 300 were wounded. If one of them told me I was a deserter and a traitor, it would be a hard assessment for me, and when you say that, it just says that about you. Mr. Jadranko, you said you were grateful to Mr. Tadic for pensioning me. That's not the problem. Just to inform you that on March 19th of this year, the Supreme Court of Serbia annulled the decision on my retirement as illegal and that Mr Tadic retired me again illegally this year. I expect that the Supreme Court will allow me to retire for the third time, but it will be by law. Thank you. (For the whole time, the MPs of the SRS talk about MPs' benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8965	There's no breach of Article 104. I have warned the MP of the obligation to comply with the provisions of Article 104. If there had been serious injuries, he would have been warned, as the warning follows after a warning about the way we address one another, and we do not respect Article 104, which we very often call upon. He has the word National MP Jadranko Vukovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for the replica, Mrs. Comic, since Mr. Delic mentioned my name. Mr. Delic, I know that the concept of deserter exists in the war, that is, I hope that you understand that, you're an educated man, I'm experiencing treason as the most terrible thing. Mr. Delicu, you said that between Serbia and Seselj you defined yourself as Serbia. And what is Serbia, but Dr. Seselj, Mr. Delic? In that sense, I, Mr. Delicic, said it was a state of war to make it happen. I don't want it to happen to you, but you have to understand my bitterness. I saw you as an officer of honor just because of everything you've been through, what you've been talking about. Mr. Delich, you're the last man I thought would do it. You will find out in some campaign how much you were appreciated by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. You were the only one that Dragan Todorovic appreciated, and the two of them talked about you all the worst, and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8967	On Article 3? According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8968	Dear fellow Members of the People, if we are in the sphere of morality, then we all have our childhood, youth and adulthood, we are in different roles – we are a parent, we are grandparents, we were children, we worked somewhere. Somewhere we were moral, we were immoral. We answered the mission somewhere, we didn't answer the question. No one argues to Mr. Delic that as a general he probably did his job well, but in politics he proved to be an unworthy trust of citizens and an immoral man. It's something that's a fact, which doesn't have to be proved, just one premise. Please, especially you who were on Mr. Seselj's defense team and you Mr. Delic, don't take Dr. Vojislav Seselj in the mouth at all, to mention him, because that's how you only make his defense more difficult. You're very well aware of that. One question for the president of your party "take everything life gives you" – has he ever been to Krajina in his life? Since you have honored us here, and there have been many volunteers who responded to a military call, has your Tomislav Nikolic ever been to Krajina? And imagine, the Duke. One witness explained what a duke is in this Western style, so they can understand him. I know that you are all watching, and especially Serbian citizens, the transfer and trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj; continue after this session, immediately afterwards, after a brief break, there will be a transfer, there you can hear and see how it defends Serbia. He's there, we're radicals here. Be sure, Serbia will win, along with the Serbian Radical Party and Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8969	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8970	Mrs. Komic, that's Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I need to explain to you what this new variant of a systematic violation of that member is going through. It is reflected in the fact that it violates the dignity of not only the MPs, but the National Assembly, as one of the very important state bodies. The seventh place within the National Assembly's nomenclature of jurisdiction is the adoption of laws. In the first place is sovereignty and territorial integrity. The National Assembly cannot deal effectively with its obligations, duties and responsibilities if the Democratic Party, a small number of DS people who usurped power in the DS, promotes such topics in the National Assembly because of tycoon and other interests. That's a fact. For the sake of the public, and for your sake, Mrs Comic, not to be uninformed, since it became a syndrome from a few years ago, let the non-intelligence contagion, just to tell you: when the SRS MPs in this heat of fighting for the mandates of the SRS, because the citizens at a certain percentage voted for the SRS, and that is our basic requirement, to return what belongs to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, bring some information that you can interpret as something personal, so the Serbian Radical Party learned all of this from Aleksandr Vukic. Aleksandar Vukic brought us transcripts of secret talks between Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic. This was taught by Vojislav Seselj to sue Tomislav Nikolic for Tomislav Nikolic to get kicked out of the SRS. Those images of the properties and properties of Tomislav Nikolic were taken by Aleksandar Vukic. By September 15th, Aleksandar Vukic made a strategic position because he was unhappy because those from the West, who paid for the coup, were like Nikolic and did not like his political son. We have no intention of solving the conflict between a political father and a political son. We are merely asking for the return of what was taken from citizens of the Republic of Serbia who voted in favour of the SRS electoral list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. Look at the site of the National Assembly, which is political parties. There aren't any of these. Look at the Law on the financing of political parties, so you heard "Zumbula" last night – here, I'll pay you all the debts, just give me 20 terms what belongs to the budget. Take everything life gives you. Of course, money and fear of the return of Vojislav Seselj and of Serbia's victory in The Hague tribunal. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry. We're all on a big test. Vojislav Seselj must win the UN tribunal. If she doesn't win, she lost all of Serbia, the whole Serbian people lost. If you do not respect the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as regards the mandate of the SRS, the whole of Serbia is lost. It's all connected. Why don't we talk about Kosovo and Metohija? Because BIA, on someone's orders, designed this kind of coup and these kind of people of this kind of integrity, a moral view of the world, with a swan song, to destroy Serbia. Know, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8971	People's MP, in the explanation you presented, there is no violation of Article 104. The fact is, you've spoken longer than usual, and that could be the basis for anyone's call. You spoke for four minutes and thirty seconds, while the other MPs got less time. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8972	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see, in some things we agree on. I think Mr. Seselj must win the Hague for both himself and Serbia, so you bang as much as you want. I agree with you too, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, that Mr. Seselj is the best among you, the first, and that then there are many empty places and that's his problem. But you made one big mistake, and that's what Mr. Seselj will personally resent you for. You put him in front of Serbia. Mr. Seselj would never put himself in front of Serbia, because Serbia and me and him are first in line. (For the entire duration of the speech of the People's MP, Bozidar Delic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8973	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8974	General, if Vojislav Seselj had put himself in front of Serbia, he would have gone to Goc, where you were, took the money sent to him by the President of the Republic, various intelligence services, and no one would have asked for him in The Hague. He'd finish his job for himself and his family for the rest of his life. But, no, he wasn't guessing with the Americans, he went there. For six years, he has been in prison to prove that Serbs are not guilty of anything, that there is no collective guilt and that he himself is not guilty of anything. You were supposed to be his witness to the defense, and here you are, turning your back on him. You stabbed him in the back. Don't pay any respects to us. Don't worry about him. He's enough for himself. The Serbian people following him and watching him is enough inspiration for everything he does, and you spend your money on Goc along with those with whom you were there. It's all coming out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8975	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), so MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8976	Mrs. Komic, Article 104 can be hurt both consciously and deliberately, but I am now using the opportunity to say – you have made a mistake or, to be more precise, you have not applied Article 104 and you have not acted consciously or deliberately, because you simply cannot stop this. Because when citizens come out for this pay phone, and they're closer to PUPS than the Alliance of Socialist Youth, without any intention of interpreting that I have anything against that party... I just need to distract you. During those marathon negotiations on forming the government, those negotiating could not create the government because Tomislav Nikolic did not want it. It worked out his vanity because he wasn't a candidate for Prime Minister, then he directed everything towards the "yellow company" and now we have this fragile, unstable government that's faced with some of its problems, maybe a little ideological nature, probably some other nature even more. But you must take care of the dignity of this congregation. In a situation where information is provided about a person who is not in the National Assembly, you usually harshly reprimand the MP, especially if they directly call an individual in their address. Here we have now had a situation that is absolutely schizophrenic: a man left with a delay from a party whose President Vojislav Seselj is, and here he swears to respect, worship, love Vojislav Seselj. Doesn't that seem a little schizophrenic to you? It supports Vojislav Seselj and belongs to a group that should enable Vojislav Seselj to be killed! These are some things common sense cannot accept. It now turns out that Vojislav Seselj respects and appreciates those who left the SRS, and does not tolerate those who remained in the SRS. What a schizophrenic message, and as a kind of logicist, you don't point out to the speaker that something's wrong. There's really something wrong. Why isn't it okay? Living in a world of fraud, in a world of deception; anyone who puts on a 1,000-euro suit, 500-euro shoes, twice a day showers, crosses hands, constantly takes a few children when painting, is a European type, a European man. In conditions where the EU is going through its most difficult phase, ideological, material-financed and every other nature, and when they are truly gaining on the importance of those forces that have had a rather critical relationship because of this approach to the European Union, BIA, Miki Rakic, Vukadinovic and others have designed such individuals to entertain the nation and to cause frowning among some who are headed by the parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8977	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Yours states that I reprimanded or uttered measures because the details of other faces' lives were not true, you confused me with someone else. I warn, so I express the measures for the following cases: the obvious disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, the refusal to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is involved in seeking injury, to say that there is no need for injury after the word has been received, to throw away and interfere with speakers and after being warned about it and to distract me as chairman. These were cases where, after the warning, the measures of non-popular reminders that no one loves and which are the ultimate measure in each parliament, but in those cases you left no room for anything but a measure of warning. No one was reprimanded or warned because he spoke about details of any private life, only today MP Jadranko Vukovic was warned that he respected article 104 in addressing other MPs. The word is by MP Bozidar Delic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8978	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really won't be answering today to speak, no matter what my former colleagues say about me or about us. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you've absolutely misread what I said. I said clearly, Mr. Seselj would never put himself in front of Serbia, as you said in your presentation. Both for me and for Mr. Seselj, Serbia comes first. Then, ma'am, you mentioned some money, Kosovo and Metohija. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I can't tell you anything, except that all my family's property has remained in Kosovo and Metohija. You still take care of your property. My family has temporarily displaced faces throughout Serbia. As for Mr Krasic and his remarks on schizophrenic behavior, I certainly have no problem with my behavior, but individuals should visit the doctor. Thank you. (At all times the speech of the People's MP, Bozidar Delic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8979	National MP Suleyman Spaho wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Delica, don't you ever mention Dr. Vojislav Seselj again. (President: People's Parliament, you cannot make threats to anyone from the National Assembly's pay phone. The words "you never mentioned" are a threat, and I beg you and I warn you not to make any threats. You didn't understand me. He's right, dear colleague Markovic, I asked him not to mention Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thanks to him, he's sitting here, and maybe me, too. Now I apologize to Dr. Vojislav Seselj for not wanting to accept this place, because if I had accepted, I wouldn't have such a political con man sitting here. You won't, Mr. Delic, and the rest of you will defend Seselj, you betrayed him. It will be defended by Spaho Sulejman, Dragan Todorovic, Sreto Peric and those who remained, we will defend Dr Vojislav Seselj. You went and betrayed all of us. You betrayed me, who I believed in all of you. You have betrayed my and your ideology, you have taken the ideology of Tomislav Nikolic and Vukic. You took money; ideology is, what my dear sister and radical Mrs. Goca said, you just love money. That's it. These people are honest, honest, and you're not going to prove anything to them in any crime, just like all those honest radicals who stayed with Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8981	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8982	Mrs. Komic, first of all, I need to give you a suggestion, really well-intentioned. It is not your job to interfere with how the MPs will present their thoughts behind the Serbian Parliament's pay phone. Every MP has its own style. Mr. Suleiman Spaho in his own way interpreted the exposure of Bozidar Delic and did not threaten anyone. Mr Delic, you and Tomislav Nikolic and all of you who belong to this illegal parliamentary club today have the same role that Josip Broz played in 1941 – to cause confusion among all Serbs who think nationally and nationally. In 1941, Josip Broz told Serbs, along with Serbian communists who were blind in healthy eyes: "It doesn't matter if we fight Germans under cod or five-point, it's important that we fight Germans." Afterwards, it turned out that it was these Serbian communists who became the greatest souls of the Serbian people. In a deputy government in London in 1942, General Draža Mihajlovic said: "The Communists, like the Latvians, serve the Germans and prevent us from liberating our country. "That's what you do today. Your task is to allow Boris Tadic's regime to live and nothing else. Being a godless nationalist, patriot, patriot is just a trap to pull behind you a gullible and naive world that today is hard to live in Serbia. But you are not the biggest problem in Serbia, today Serbia faces much more difficult problems, the economic crisis, threatened to fire hundreds of thousands of people from work. Serbia again, unfortunately, is threatened with terrorism by the Cypriots from Kosovo and Metohija, threatened to again Serbian heads, as in 1941, in wagons to be sent to Belgrade to scare Serbia, songs "Oh Serbia, cry, cry, come to you, Hashim Thaci". So, you are not Serbia's biggest problem, you, unfortunately, have settled into the ranks of those who are fighting against Serbia and the Serbian people. A few weeks ago, you said Vojislav Seselj wanted to kill you. You said he wanted to kill you and Alexander Vukic in the Krtkovci. As a former member of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, Mr Nikolic probably read poorly to Bishop Nikola Velimirovic, but I will now give him one message. There's a great thought in Bishop Nikolai: "Lord, there are many living among the dead and many dead among the living." Mr. Nikolic, you're alive physically, and I want you to stay that way, but you're dead spiritually.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8983	Members of the 3rd amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8984	Madam President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, the Liberal-Democratic Party has tabled an amendment on the network of courts for three courts that are very important for Northern Back territory. It's about the basic court in Backo Topoli, the basic court in Vienna and the basic court in Senta. So today we've already seen a very nice map made, with all the holes in the middle of that map. We've also prepared a map, but our map is black because we think it's a big problem. The fact that these three courts are abolished (so, municipal courts are abolished and fundamentally not established) represents a very big problem for Vojvodina and can be marked as a black triangle, as a black hole, ink in the centre of Vojvodina. When you look at this map you can see that the courts that are now established as primary courts in the border areas of Vojvodina, so that the central part of Vojvodina remains practically uncovered by basic courts. I would remind you of the fact that 20 years ago, Vojvodina had judicial authority. During that court power, Vojvodina had courts with a certain tradition, and that tradition was a continuity with an earlier historical period. For this reason, it could have been that judges such as Šemic Milan, Kojicic Petar or Jokic Stojan were tried in courts in Zrenjanin. At the time, courts had certain authority, judges had authority, and without that authority there was no court, no legal and professional work in courts. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, so after the adoption of Milosevic's constitution, Vojvodina lost that judicial power, but Serbia did not get anything, we saw something flourishing. However, the judiciary went pretty downhill in Vojvodina, so we have this situation that the courts in Vojvodina are as bad and problematic as the rest of Serbia's territory. In Vojvodina, it was the courts that were one natural result of the development of a city. So the place seemed the court, not the other way around, that it was the court that made the place and gave it meaning. So it was a natural process that only resulted in one normal state that one city that reached a certain level of economic and cultural development had the need for a single court to exist in it, therefore, that there was a seat of a particular court. Now that we have abolished these courts that I have listed in this amendment, we are practically interrupting this continuity and we are coming into a situation that ceases to work a certain number of courts, which should exist because of the importance of the places where they are and for various other reasons that are characteristic of Vojvodina. I would like to point out again that it is an economic, social, linguistic, historical, traditional meaning that characterizes Vojvodina. So we're in a situation where we're left out of important judicial institutions, and we don't see the reasons behind the bill's proposer to simply delete those courts from this black map that I've already shown. In the government's explanation of why our amendments were rejected, the main reason was to take care of administrative districts and cities and make sure that every administrative district, or city, was given its own court, basic court, normal. However, I would remind you that these administrative districts were created and established during the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. We know what these administrative districts were up to. It has not achieved its goal and we are now building on a bad solution to a new solution that should have some reform significance. It also mentions the geographical distance, but when we look at this map, I'd like to draw your attention that we have a big black hole, an empty space surrounding the courts that remain, so these basic courts that will have to take over all the powers of these others from the central territory of Vojvodina. We don't see that rational reason for these courts to be abolished, and we know there's a lot of reasons for them to stay. I come from two angles to this issue: first, from the corner of a national minority, as Hungary at birth, and secondly, from the corner of the citizen of Vojvodina, therefore, as a Duchess. When I finish this exposure you will say that I am biased and you will be absolutely right, I am biased, but I believe I have the right as a member of these minority communities, because, you will allow, the Hungarian community is still minority compared to the majority people, and Vojvodina is only a third of its territory compared to Serbia. If we are propagating the fact that we are in favour of national and human rights, if we are in favour of the rights of national minorities and that this is, in fact, the way to the European Union, to prove to us some of our size, tolerance and other things, what does it mean that we are abolishing the courts in those territories where the good part of the Hungarian population lives? We have abolished courts that have already been ready to do so and have been working for years, in conduct, in Hungarian, trial bilingually. We now run out of these courts and all that concentrates on the court in Subotica, which will have to bear the full burden of the other courts, so these three courts: Buck Topola, Senta and Vienna. When we talk about Vojvodina and say that it represents 30% of Serbia's territory, then we must also look back at the fact that these courts that are now being established, I am talking about basic courts, which is 25%, as regards the number of newly established courts in Vojvodina. There's already one difference. A smaller number of courts are given, a smaller percentage of courts in Vojvodina than Vojvodina would earn in its territory. When we talk about funding, about budget charging by Vojvodina, and we talk about Serbia's budget, then we could say that Vojvodina's full budget of Serbia is 40%. We can also mention the fact that Naphtagas is, in fact, given to the Russian state, also from the territory of Vojvodina. All this for the South Stream gas pipeline, which is no longer mentioned as a highway, but only mentioned that it might be. We give "Naftagas", we give it for some possible Russian support on the Kosovo issue. When all of this compares with the fact that Vojvodina is once again collateral damage to some savings at national level, the question arises - why does it keep repeating itself? Perhaps I could answer with this decision by the Executive Council of Vojvodina. Namely, the decision to establish a proposal for a network of courts in the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina was adopted by the Executive Council on 12 November 2008 and was handed over to the office of the assembly on 20 November. What does that mean? The network of courts, which is envisioned by this proposal of the Vojvodina Executive Council, is completely identical to the network of courts proposed by the government. As for the network of courts we are discussing today, amendments have been made by LDP, SVM and the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. None of these amendments support that network of courts, especially when it comes to these three courts. Moreover, they criticise and demand that these courts be established as basic courts, so that municipal courts are not abolished rather than renamed to basic courts. What about the behaviour of these parties that are in power in the province of Vojvodina, which are participating in the Executive Council of Vojvodina, which took part in the decision to determine the proposal of a network of courts on the territory of Vojvodina? Today and yesterday, probably both tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and who knows how long they'll defend the amendments and point out that Vojvodina is threatened, that national minorities are at risk, that this network of courts is significantly threatened by their rights, and that, above all, national minorities. Whether it's hypocritical or not I'm leaving you to decide. But I think there should be some consistency in whether or not we're going to defend a position. The LDP has an attitude and we said we were biased, and I'm biased, right from that minority position. As a minority, I have the right to ask and ask the majority to respect my right and to meet me, even if he thinks that I, possibly, will in some way endanger the right of the majority. If all this is the essence, then I see no reason why someone would take for themselves the exclusive right to defend the rights of national minorities or the rights of the Vojvodina or the Vojvodina in relation to this network of courts. And in general, in terms of any rights. No one has the exclusive right to do that. Everyone is welcome who will support the amendments and we really support these amendments that suggest that the courts in Vojvodina are not abolished precisely for those reasons that we have mentioned. Unfortunately, in this set of laws, there is a law left out that is very important and that would probably put all these passions to rest because of the abolishing of courts, which is the law on public records. If the law on public records had been passed, it would probably have made things much simpler, as full powers would have been passed on to the notary and those basic courts that remained would have functioned quite well with those judicial units, without any problems. Therefore, we expect you to adopt this amendment, especially because the amendment was introduced into the government's error report, because we did not propose a basic court in Backo Topola for the territory of the Municipality of Backo Palanka, but for Backo Topol, and we did not propose a basic court in Vienna for the territory of the municipalities of Becej, Žablj and Novi Becej, but without this New Vienna, which should remain in the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8985	The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, according to the amendment. After him, Ambassador Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8986	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, we support all amendments relating to staying on the system under which courts are working so far, according to the formulation and legal norm, established, and in relation to the areas and their choice of these significant judicial functions. I am speaking to you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but at the same time I am speaking to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia: the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let us not give our courts that have built and lost their independence and independence through history for hundreds of years. From Romans to today, no one has dared to abolish the courts and relieve judges and prosecutors in these Serb areas beyond our acquired values, from Byzantium to today, and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens, let us not let strangers give us justice as is the case in the case of Miladin Kovacevic; his detention was ordered by the order of the US ambassador. Let us respect, dear citizens, our acquired values from the Middle Ages to this day, from St. Sava, Emperor Dusan, from Milos and Karadjordje to this day, these are our values and we must not deny them. Dear citizens, don't give our courts, they should stay where they are and where they've been functioning for decades and centuries. Let's not give our judges and prosecutors, they're ours, they've come from our people, they've been studying, they've been preparing for a judge's office, they've got no other interest. They were not prepared for profiteers, for tycoons, for drug dealers, they were not prepared to be unemployed, they weren't prepared for fraud, they weren't prepared to be fakers, they weren't prepared, they weren't prepared to be traitors of their people. Our courts are our courts and that is why they must remain, and therefore this Parliament must not, under any circumstances, go before Milos, and Milos is the people and citizens of Serbia. This has been confirmed through amendments by MPs and all political parties. From the Middle Ages to today, our judiciary has come a thorny path until this level of professionalism has reached. They want this little bit of our history to erase, so to speak, with a rubber. We should adopt those of our values, respect them, because there is no other way to fight and provide our citizens with the rights that have been built for years. First, I'm going to talk a little bit about organising courts in Serbia through history, to remind ourselves. You know that, but here's just for the citizens. The first calls of judicial legislation and justice in Serbia come from the 7th to the 12th centuries. The history of Serbia and the Serbian people can be divided into different periods, each of which, from the perspective of the people's development, represents a characteristic era. During the development of Serbia's feudal state between the 12th and 15th centuries, social and legal relations were regulated by different norms, especially ordinary rights, although the statutes as a government's order also appeared during the period, afterwards, international agreements that Serbia was signing at the time. In the 14th century, laws appear as stricter legal rules, which organise courts in the Republic of Serbia in another way. The creation of the Serbian state was also followed by the Serbian church's independence. By order of St. Sava, the first legislative action was created by the translation of Byzantine Nomokanon in 1219. However, there is no independent code, there was a law, but there were no laws, before Dušan's code was passed. Emperor Dushan's reign has been marked by the peri-perience of Dushan's power and his empire. Stefan Dusan was coronated in 1346 in Skopje. His royal authority was stronger than the king's power. What were the principles of this period of establishment of courts and their work? Dusan's code, which consists of 135 members, dealt most with the state administration and state law. Scientists believe Dusan's code was, by the way, the first constitution of the Serbian state at the time. A special accent was placed on the fight against corruption and crime, that is, pirates and dads, which were pirates and thieves. The great credit of Emperor Dusan was that he wanted to subdue to a clearly defined ideal of constitutional monarchy and build on these principles a new, more modern judiciary in Serbia and set up courts in Serbia. The organisation of Serbia's courts and their process in the Middle Ages – two basic types of government functioned in the Serbian medieval state: church and civic. Civilian is characterized by legislative and administrative authority and by judicial authority. However, in the old Serbian state, three types of state authorities can differ: legislative, judicial and executive. So, with Dushan, we've got a court-ordering and editing of these three branches of government. The judicial authority was completely independent under Dušan's law. The principle of independence of the judiciary has been declared in Articles 171 and 172. The law of Dushan, which says, "Every judge shall judge according to the law, according to the law, and not judge according to the will and fear of the king." "At that time there were several courts with different territorial and personal integrity and real jurisdiction. The court was independent of the rulers, even the ruler himself came under the influence of the law and was exposed to responsibility. By their composition and manner of conduct, the courts could be divided into two groups: the collegiate and the courts that have one judge. The courts with one judge were different, they were: state, police, trade, courts of private persons, and there was also a state court. Over the state court, the ruler was, so to speak, a god. The courts in medieval Serbia are divided into areas. The whole state was, in addition to the administrative division, divided into judicial authorities that were somewhere consistent with the parishes, so they were called parish courts, unlike court courts. Lower courts of more police and administrative character were located in every settlement, village and city. So even during Dushan, we have vessels in villages, cities and other settlements. There were ladies and gentlemen, and military courts, they were extraordinary bodies, which were under the command of the Duke during the war. In most cases, the parish court was in charge of the territory of a parish. The parish judge was appointed by the ruler. As an integral part of the court case and judicial institutions, according to Dusan's code, there was both the prosecution and the prosecutor had the right to represent the indictment, and the defendant had the right to have a lawyer. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the organisation of Serbia's courts during that period, the Nahi Court in Sapac was established in 1822, when both the Nahi Court and Valjevo, apo orders by Prince Milos. The founding of the Sokolna nahya court: according to the order of the Prince Miloš, the Nahi Court was established in the Užičko-sokolna nahia in 1842, based in Užica. This court has done justice for both of us. For the pleasure of Nahi, the court of Nahi was based in Požega, and for Sokolska nahiya in Rogačica. Ladies and gentlemen, we now want to centralise the judiciary. At that time, it was taken care of, long ago, you see, in addition to the nahi courts we have country courts. In Serbia, as at the time of the first uprising, it was the rural farmers who, so to speak, served as court in the territory of a village. The characteristics of the judiciary from 1833 to 1838. During the first reign of Prince Milos in Serbia, there were as authorities of the judicial authority village and Nahi courts. By the time the first courts were established, Turkish Dahija and Nahih princes or representatives of the Serbs were mixed. The establishment of truce courts - rural courts consisted of representatives and two members. Jurisdiction was to solve civil litigation whose value is not greater than 100 groats, and in criminal cases for crimes that do not deserve a higher sentence of ten beatings, i.e. Hits with a stick and three days in prison. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known not to forget, but to remind ourselves, an institution in the judiciary, which is the establishment of an appeal court at the time, i.e. In 1837. The Duke's apparition as the Grand Court established an appeal court. According to its court office, it was the court of the second degree, and in 1860, the court of appeal received wider court competences and wider powers. The establishment of a casation court – during the constitution in 1846, the Supreme Court was established. He had no jurisdiction over the cassation court, but overseeed law enforcement and justice and he was a third-degree court. So in 1846, there was and was established in Serbia, according to Prince Milos, a cassation court. It existed in Serbia, known in history and in recent past, and the State Court for State Protection. You know well that King Alexander brought an order in 1929, on the proposal of the Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers, to establish a court for the protection of the state. Judges for the state's protection court have appointed a king on a proposal from the minister of justice. It was my intention to compare the organisation of Serbia's courts in history and history, and what it is now and what it is, roughly, trying to impose, something that Serbia cannot live up to. Madam Minister, you've been here a long time in the Assembly, because you represent honorable and fair billing. I just want to draw attention to the fact that there is no support for these laws here, especially when it comes to the territorial organisation of courts and prosecutors. This cannot be, and there is great indignation in the public. In good faith, I can give you the impressions and reaction of the citizens. We don't think the courts should be abolished, that judges should not be elected as proposed, that re-election of judges and prosecutors can't be, because it's against the Constitution... (President: Time's up. )......................................................................................................... And that, in that case, we need to improve the judiciary on other grounds, not this way, because it just seemingly creates a picture that something can change, and there's no result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8987	The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovaca, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8988	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to speak to you very briefly about this amendment, but first I'm going to have to have an introduction. I am still a member of the old delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I would also like for the public and for you to give very good practice when it comes to amendments to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On a constant tide, everyone has only 30 seconds to say "for" or "against" a certain amendment and then the tide votes. I want to point out that most of the work happens on the parent boards themselves, where these amendments pass or not. It is mostly the prey that listens to the voice of reason, that is, the committee and the vote, as decided by the parent committee. We know that most of these amendments we're talking about today have, unfortunately, been rejected on our parent committee. Also, the government has not accepted these amendments, but we continue to hope that Madam Minister, as a representative of the government, will come out and accept some of them. Now let's go back to the concrete amendment proposed by LDP colleagues, Mrs Judita Popovic and Mr Maras. If you compare the amendments proposed by the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, that means three of my colleagues and I from the Minority Club, our amendments are completely identical, which again shows that there are very similar opinions of the opposition in this assembly when it comes to the law on areas and the seats of courts and public prosecutors. Once again, I thank all the opposition parties and some colleagues who supported, at least in words, our amendments, and we'll see what it looks like at the vote. There's been a lot of arguments here these days. For the sake of the public, just once again to point out that the unaccepted amendments to this bill have 109, that we are currently talking about the 23rd unaccepted amendment, that this debate takes days and will likely take days. Once again, I would like to thank Mrs. Minister, who is really sitting here with us from morning to night, and sitting down, as things stand. Several MPs have very realistically suggested that this bill simply be withdrawn and completed. The union of the duchy Hungarians advocates, we heard it several times, we saw a visual representation of our amendment, we saw a map of the Vojvodina shown by Mr. Lasla Varga, so we heard a colleague, Judith Popovic, who said she might be biased... I would not agree that I am biased, I am Hungarian, I am Vojvodjanka, but I am a citizen of this country, I live in Serbia, a Serbian citizen, of course, a national MP, and I advocate, as well as the SVM, we are safe both LDP and all of us, to respect the same principles. Of course, we will also support the other six draft laws because we are in favour of judicial reform, regardless of what the European Commission said in its report that judicial reform is still at some initial stage and that this should be done, but the SVM does not advocate rationalisation at all costs. It is simply necessary to follow the same principles for all, to seriously consider whether this debate makes sense, whether someone who will change their mind at the last moment will appear. Of course, there have already been several public debates and television debates, the story of how this troubled law will pass. We have heard from the Secretary of State and certain representatives of the ZES Parliament Club that, in fact, accepting this law is not necessarily an absolute majority. Of course, a simple majority is enough, but we all know that 126 cards are actually necessary to vote. Since it is clear that no one from the opposition has yet to declare that it supports this bill, as it is, and that the four MPs from the SVM, as well as the other representatives of the Minority Parliament Club, in which seven of us, even certain representatives of the ZES Parliament Club, are, I mean, LSV, and many others have made difficult amendments and have not made clear whether they will vote. It is necessary to seriously consider whether this debate makes sense, whether it might be wise to withdraw this bill, to continue consultations. I would point out that we have declared that the SVM will not give up its demands. We don't threaten anyone, we don't want to bring down the government, we simply want to keep the courts in Backo Topoli, Senti and Vienna. We believe that they are necessary, because, as we have heard today several times, where national minorities are making some kind of a majority of the injustice has been done. So, once again, I would like to emphasise that both the Parliamentary Minority Club and the SVM certainly support this LDP amendment that we are currently talking about, that in the voting day we will vote for it, as we urge all of you to vote for our amendment that is identical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8989	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8990	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I took advantage of a stylish figure, I think it's a little misunderstood. Yeah, I said I was looking at things from a minority angle. So I explained that this angle consists of belonging to a minority community as Hungarian and that I am a Vojvodina citizen, a territorial minority compared to the Republic of Serbia. By the way, I would like to thank the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians for supporting the Liberal Democratic Party amendment. So, any support is welcome. We will also support all amendments relating specifically to the protection of the rights of national minorities, including courts and access to justice and justice. Therefore, it is welcome to support the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, and I expect support from the other opposition, and a positive response from the ruling coalition on this amendment. I still believe that the protection of national minorities is one civilizational fluid and that the abolition of courts located in the territory of Vojvodina, where a large number of national minorities live, is one wrong and bad message to the world. We don't think it should be done that way. It's the same as when an elephant enters a glass shop, so do a lot of damage. The same is true of the Duke. The Vojvodina must not be the most collateral damage to someone's misjudge or someone's wrong approach to solving the problem, i.e. saving and rationalising. We welcome the savings, welcome the rationalization, but not always at the expense of the Vojvodina. Therefore, I thank you all for supporting our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8991	Thank you. National MP Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, so Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8992	The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, when it comes to Article 3. The bill, we see that the first two points of this member are committed to Belgrade. It is said this way in point 1: "The first basic court in Belgrade, for the territory of municipalities", which is otherwise city municipalities, should not be chased by these other municipalities that are listed here, although that sounds the same when pronounced, "Vračar, Vozdovac, Zvezdarac, Zemun, Novi Belgrade, Palilula, Rakovica, Sava Venac, Old Town and Chukarica". The second point is said: "The second basic court in Belgrade, for the territory of the municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarec, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin, with judicial units", this is now interesting, "in Lazarovac, Mladenovac, Obrenovac and Sopot". If a man asks you why it's written like this, I'm sure you wouldn't be able to explain it. I really want you to come out after my presentation and explain to me why this is like this, that it drinks water, that there's some reasonable explanation for it. We've tried to look at it from several sides and, right to tell you, even if we put ourselves in your role and try to justify why this kind of arrangement is here, or why this kind of territorial arrangement is the seat of the courts. I don't understand it at all. So from what is seen in this article, in these first two positions, the following is understood: all municipalities that are considered so-called so-called municipalities are grouped. urban city core, urban city municipalities, not to be listed now from the beginning; then from this Corps, the municipalities that are supposed to make so-called suburban municipalities. So, one can find relatives in the fact that they're so-called. urban city municipalities that make up the urban city core, and that the other municipalities of the suburban municipality that some have their own rural shape. Was that a criterion? Even if he did, he's completely inconsistencies. You have the city's urban municipality of Palilula, which in the good part of its territory affects rural areas in the city of Belgrade. The same case is with Zemun, though, in a smaller volume, because since the formation of the Surcin municipality, she represents this second category. Are we here to go back to those famous criteria and explanations that we got from your deputy? Let's say we go back to an interesting explanation, he says – one of the reasons for the abolition of certain courts, most of these courts, is that there is a higher degree of corruption in the smaller environments. Let's apply this criterion, say, to the city of Belgrade. Can you explain to me whether you might have handled this criterion when you decided there were two basic courts in Belgrade? I'm not saying, maybe there should be two basic courts in Belgrade. The names of these courts and the reduction of the total number of courts are in line with the strategy that we have yet to come up with. I told you in the morning that what you wrote was cartoonally compared to what was our idea, so I have the right to tell you about what this looks like. For example, we have two basic courts in Belgrade and let's say that Belgrade's needs are such that they end up in two basic courts. Can I ask you something? Why, say, wouldn't this division go by a different logic? Do you want to bring in judges who specialize in the rural area of Belgrade? Or judges specialising in urban problems in Belgrade? I don't know what you wanted to do. Why this could not have been done: to withdraw one line, geographically, across Belgrade, vertically, from the north to the south, and then to say – for the entire territory of the city of Belgrade located east of this line will be the first basic court, and for the whole area of Belgrade west of this line will be the second basic court. The reason I would give you for such a division can be entirely equal to whatever reason you tell me about this division you've made here. This is completely unclear. No criteria, believe me, health care is not going to make this kind of division. What did we do now? To tell us how we think this should be done, we should have sat down with all that logistics you own at the Ministry, with all that input data that you have, which you obviously didn't use here, and you didn't collect, and you should have done it, in order to make one quality bill. If we could have done, and objectively we didn't, one quality bill that could stand up to your proposal, then we could have gone from member to member and written amendments that would literally change these provisions of yours that were proposed, by then writing how many basic courts should be in Belgrade, whether two, four or five, and how they should look. You see, for example, in other situations, when it comes to criminal courts and other municipalities, you talk about it: the basic court, I have no idea, in Jagodina, about the territory of the municipalities of Rekovac, Svilajnac and the city of Jagodina, and then you emphasize, with judicial units in Rekovac and Svilajnč. You, for example, are here in a second position, when it comes to Belgrade, saying where the judicial units are – in Lazarovac, Mladenovac, Obrenovac and Sopot. You have the first basic court in Belgrade for the territory of those municipalities you listed. What's it supposed to do, say, residents of the Besni Fok settlement, which is the most diverse settlement of the Palilu municipality, run a little bit, so you're in Panchev? What's he supposed to do? Where is the seat, where is the physical seat of the first basic court in Belgrade? What's the logic? Then why did we determine that Sopot has its own unit? Where is the seat of the second basic court? Where do you predict it to be the seat of the second basic court? You said – Lazarec, Mladenovac, Obrenovac and Sopot have units. Why? I guess the logic is that if the inhabitants of Lazarets, Obrenovac, Sopota and Mladenovac are not given these units, they should travel a lot. These people wouldn't be able to exercise their rights near where they live. That's probably the logic. I don't see another one. What about the other residents of Belgrade? What about the residents of the first court? Do you think that city traffic is so great that someone from Mad Fox can run, say, if it stays the seat of the first basic court at the Railway Station, you think it's simple for him? That he can come from there very simply? The counterargument would be that today's area of the Palilu municipality's territory is there. Yes, but why did we want to change the current regulations on the seat of the courts? What made us come up with all this, what were you doing wrong? Just because there's a illogicality. That was the whole idea. If there weren't some illogicality, no one would think to change anything, you know. It was an idea. Then you take the idea of making something better and making it, I apologize for the expression, the whole joke. It is not only this provision of Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, but all of your provisions of the law are so. It's just amazing. I can't believe it. Why have we submitted such an amendment? Of course you will refuse to amend us, of course you will say that it is wrong, because our amendment says that the first municipal court is on the territory of Palilula and the Old Town, that the second municipal court for the territory of Rakovica, the Savawen and the Chukarica, and that the third municipal court of Belgrade for the territory of Vračar, Zveztara, etc. Same as now. You know what the idea was? If you adopt these amendments, you've practically returned the law to the old ones, and now we're telling you from this place that it's ten times better than making this cartoon that you made of that beautiful idea that we had. That's a big difference. That's why we just can't let this go without debate. We can't let this thing go any further without looking back at this. Other MPs have already said that everything looks cartoon throughout Serbia. The fact that you compensated the judicial units for the idea of access to justice, I don't mind, but it's all too expensive, too complicated. Not to mention the total number of judges will be reduced. Let me ask you a simple question, and you have to tell us that; the law doesn't say that, and it would be very interesting to hear that. What about the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade? It will cease to exist, as there will be one basic court for Belgrade's territory. What about the total number of judges in Belgrade? Are we gonna throw out those judges who have worked at the Fourth District Court so far because they're not specializing in the city area or are we gonna... What are we going to do with them? What's the idea here, do you know that? I don't know. I don't think you're going to convince me that this is well thought out, done with one skillful strategy and that this is going to work out the next day. Because if that were the case, we wouldn't all jump at you for this. You are not the only ones who jump MPs of the ruling coalition for the sake of elemental decency, they support the government, even though some of them don't think this is a good thing. What do you people do, I'd probably behave like that in their place, so let's be very open. Of course, there are amendments to some of them. Simply, the professional public, the opposition in the state, all stand against this bill. If nothing else, this is missing at least to go public with this bill, in a public and professional debate, to open up arguments and see if this should stand or not stand like this. You may be right, but we have not heard a good and valid argument so far that would explain such a concrete arrangement of this territorial division of the seats of the courts. So this is not clear to us and we can't vote for something we don't understand. If you think that the bill can be delivered to the National Assembly with your authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that's quite enough and that there should be no explanation for anything here, believe me, you've been wronged. This is your best proof: instead of discussing this bill for one or two days, that it ends nicely, so that we go to a vote, whether someone likes or not what it says here, you have practically caused your bill to have a hundred amendments that, believe me, we will certainly discuss well, every amendment submitted, and we will try to discuss this matter in detail. That's what you'll hear from us. Of course, we respect all the needs of the state, don't worry, if it comes and comes to that, but there's just got to be a serious debate here, and it's not just with us. We are not as MPs even obliged to know the rules. We have to vote for them, we have to know what you're doing... Not that we're not obliged to know the rules, I'm sorry, I mispronounced myself, to be expert in one area. But you didn't consult the professional public. The whole professional public stands against your bill. That's what you're facing today, and of course, the ruling majority can vote whatever they want. You know, it's enough that you have 126 in the voting day and that you have most of the MPs who applied for the vote, it's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8993	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic came to the floor after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8994	It is the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. I must draw attention, when it comes to this amendment and almost all these amendments that we are discussing today are hardly important to the names of MPs behind the amendments, all the amendments are written with one basic principle, but the government has shown selectivity and has accepted some of them, for some of its reasons, and has not told us why it has given faith to that principle, and that same principle when it comes to the opposition. However, she also rejected the amendments of the MPs of the government. However, Mr. Aligrudic, there is, as I would say, a tectonic flaw in this article 3. Now it will be clear to you, so say when you advise Miki Rakic, Vukadinovic and Boris Tadic on all details, Srdjana. You are, of course, pleased, your amendment has passed and I congratulated you yesterday. What's this about? I would ask the MPs, if they were willing, to look at what it says in Article 3. The bill, which says: "The main courts are: 1) The first basic court in Belgrade, for the territory of Vračar municipalities... "and it's being arranged further. Excuse me, please, where did you find the territory of the Vashcar municipality? As far as I know, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, there is no Vračar municipality under the Law on Local Self-Government and under the Law on Local Elections. In order not to be surprised, I will read to you the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please, let's just take it in a row. Article 188. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "The basic provisions. Local self-government units are municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. The territory and headquarters of the local self-government unit are determined by law." If there were a municipality, I would now read what you stated in this point 1) -- Vračar municipality, Voždovac municipality, Zvezdakar municipality, Zemun municipality, Novi Belgrade municipality, Palilula municipality, Rakovica municipality, Sava Venac municipality, the Old Town municipality and the municipalities of Chukarica, then they could not be part of the city of Belgrade, they would already be units of local self-government. The same situation with point 2) of Article 3 is also identical. So, if you say "municipality," it's a local self-government unit. The leader is not a unit of local self-government, but a city municipality. You must not violate the Constitution. You know why you did it? Because you took for the whole concept of the law the wrong constitutional basis. So that's one, as I would say, constitutional and formal legal objection that puts this at stake. I have to distract you, we have a municipality, a city and a capital city. As far as cities are concerned, there is no such thing as a mistake. So, don't look at these other points, you said there nicely, let's say, I'll take an example, last point 34) – the basic court in Šapec, for the territory of the municipalities of Bogatic, Vladimirs, Koceljeva and for the town of Sabac. So that's where you respected the Constitution's provision on what a unit of local self-government is. Now we will go back to the main reasons of this concept and that the public knows, some MPs know, some do not know, but the public must know – for what they call "set judicial laws" are the most important ones that were first on the agenda. It's a court-ordered law. It is important, reportedly in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because the concepts are being put out: municipal, county. It's the basis for re-election, new elections, call it whatever you want, and the elimination of party non-judicial people. The same logic was applied when it came to the prosecution. The second law in that group is the law on judges. The third law on the high council of the judiciary, to make a zero composition of the council, is the same situation when it comes to the public prosecutor's office, and to block the judiciary, or make it acceptable for the Democratic Party, and this has a lot of elements of state terrorism. Now I'm going to explain it to you, so you don't do much digging. Then, as the highlight of everything, this law on organisation has been put in place, precisely with the aim of reporting to all MPs, because each of the MPs suffers the pressure of their local self-government, their municipal, district court, prosecutors, who say – aman, people, cannot be replaced by a judicial unit or a department for something that is a court as an institution. However, they came to terms with this game, and they added an additional qualification moment, which is that some courts have raised up to the republican rank, for these others they have not said which is the rank. Then different amendments appear, or, to be precise, recognizable amendments, because they are all written in the same way. But the argument that defends the amendment here changes from location to location. When MPs come from the territory of the Duke they are one group of reasons. Yesterday, a gentleman from G17 plus submitted an amendment, I think he's from Tutin, the New Market, and he explained his amendment extremely well. He prepared himself; and the area of territory, the number of inhabitants, the national composition, the existing organisation of courts, the number of courts, the number of prosecutors -- all of which he perfectly packed in an argument that defends his position. That's legitimate. There's no problem. I'm saying this for the public to realize that the MPs are not guilty, it's the one who wrote the bill and delivered it in this form. As bad as that is, it's not a commercial for me and my party, but I have to say that some European factors say that this is a dead end, this kind of law enforcement organization. So it's clear to everyone that this is wrong. Then the question arises why is the government pushing something like this by force. Then we come up with one single answer, Mrs. Judith is not there, but she's principled it for some of her reasons; she talked about it, since the amendment referred to Buck Topola, that the minority has some right. I'm using the same argument as her. And I feel like a minority, not only as a minority here in the Assembly, because I'm an MP from the opposition party, but I feel like a minority at all. I've got doors all over the place. Whoever belongs to another minority, by another criterion for determining the minority, is protected, and I am a minority in Belgrade. I can be haunted by anyone. You know there is a Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. He's probably the most important institution because he's in charge of BIA headquarters and he's in charge of some other cases. Aligrudić noticed well – wait, you talked everywhere where the seat of a court is, what did you do with these two Belgrades? Where's the seat? In the air? So there's a state of terrorism going on. Who designed this state of terrorism in the judiciary? What, by its behaviour, is primitive, simple, anti-civilization, you'll recognize it by that -- vote from Bodrum, vote from Thessaloniki, so it's as if it's European fluid. I don't know if you've noticed this quality, this government is also being built on by the EU. You have had the opportunity to hear today a statement by this Misko kid, Jeremic, says -- Serbia is threatened by the EU. Imagine the fluid that worked on him from up there, and it got in his head. We've been talking about this for 15 years, and you said-- these are our partners. Just to remind you, when it was on the agenda the budget bill for 2008 was rebalanced here, on this side, the most argumentative criticism of budget rebalancing. This side of it unscheduledly refused, counting "dog barks, wind carries." Why would the citizens be satisfied with some discussion and some criticism when nothing can be fundamentally changed? That feeling is present with the citizens, and with us all citizens are minorities. Most of it is in this small group of governments that, through the media, the BIA, the CIA, everything and everything rules this country, rules the souls of people. Serbia is one of the few countries where a man votes for what is primitive, simple, anti-civilisation actually votes against himself. Imagine the man who circles the number in front of the name of the party whose high-ranking officials vote from Bodrum! As soon as he circled, he voted against himself. What kind of mirage he was under when he took pencils to the polling station, that's something science would explain. I invite you all, let us get out of this prank that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proposing, has pushed the entire assembly. Someone noticed - no smaller law by the number of members, no larger number of amendments. How long did the opposition take? Something a little less or rather smaller parties that make up power. Any party that sort of participates in the government, whether at the level of the province, the city of Belgrade, the municipality or the Republic, finds some of its reasons for conditionality, but with many grounds they can say it is not a condition. Why? Our amendment is based on a principle that was something that led both the SRS, and the DSS, and the NS, and the LDP, and the G17 plus, and these minority parties and DS representatives, but they had this curiosity that their amendments were adopted. But the principle is the same. If you adopt the amendment to Srdjan Milivojevic, you have no answer why you have not adopted the other amendments. Not that Srdjan Milivojevic likes Kruševac more than Milovanovic likes Alexinac? Is this the message that goes towards the people? When you are a messenger of authority, the amendment passes you, and when you are an apostle of the opposition, then it does not pass? And then here we listen to the moments of something that seems like a conditioning. As a kind of paradigm, I had to take the opportunity to say that I too feel like a minority, not only as a political minority in the National Assembly, I feel like a minority in Belgrade. Belgrade courts will be subject to a principle that does not apply to any other location. These invented the Vrachar municipality, and she's a town hall. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. I'm very sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8995	Mr Milos Aligrudic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8996	I have to report to Mr. Krasic because he mentioned me on several occasions. When he first mentioned me, he spoke of this member showing a certain tectonic disorder. Of course, he didn't mean me, he talked about the law, he talked about the bill promoter, etc., but he mentioned one interesting thing that I looked back on, but it seems to me that either Mr Krasic didn't understand me very well or he understood me well, but then I didn't understand what he said, and the replicas therefore serve, that things were clear and that those who follow the transmission saw how things were. Under the Constitution of this state, all cities, and the city of Belgrade, of course, have urban municipalities. This municipality, which the Constitution mentions, called the city municipality, is not what every other municipality is, it is natural, because it is basically what makes the municipality of Belgrade itself. It doesn't matter about the old constitution, it stands in the new constitution, only now that it's clarified and that things are like that. Why did we in our amendment only write municipalities and not list city municipalities? It's a little misunderstanding, and that's what I want to explain. Because the objective of our amendments was, why not, I'm going to say it openly, in some professional sense and humiliate those who have submitted this bill, by proposing that the text be returned completely to the past. In the old law, the applicable law stands - the municipalities, not the city municipality, of course wrong, so the objective of the amendment was not to agree the existing bill with the Constitution, because then it would have to write - the city municipality, but the objective of the amendment was to indicate that it was better to leave the existing law and to withdraw this law from the procedure and make a better law than this. Now, that was the only goal of these amendments. As for the rest of what Mr. Krasic was saying, he's absolutely right. It is simply amazing that the lawmaker does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that in his proposal the law does not write what is to be written and that is - the city municipality, because otherwise it could not be written. If by any chance we had participated as a political party in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, such negligence would not have happened to us. Writing a new law, in line with the judiciary strategy and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we would not have overlooked that. Certainly, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we would write all the provisions as constitutional provisions, not as unconstitutional proposals for provisions, as did Article 3 and, as Mr Krasic said, a tectonic disorder that occurred in this Article 3. The truth is, there is a tectonic disorder and this tectonic disorder is that there are provisions that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other positive regulations. I was obliged to use this right of replica to explain why it is like this in the very text of the amendment and, of course, to agree on why it is not in the bill, and it should be, so I drew attention to that in my presentation, if you listened carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8997	Thank you. I think we're clear on this now. The word is Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8998	Mr. Novakovic, you've misread it, I'm not a conflicting person. You can see that I am making an extraordinary contribution to correcting some of our bill's proposals, although, by chance, the best amendments are they - a member is deleted. Of course, I'm referring to Article 136. That doesn't have anything to do with what Mr. Aligrudic was saying, since we obviously agree. But if our draft laws had detailed reasons on which we could see what criteria were, which criteria, probably 90% of these problems, with this number of amendments would not be. Mr. Aligrudic has essentially well announced something that is the topic. If these "municipalities" are in fact city halls, then, Mrs. Malovic, warn Mr. Gilas and those who are sufling him, those lawyers there, that it is impossible to introduce a forced administration in the city municipality, it is impossible to disband the city municipality, because the city municipality is not a unit of local self-government. And the fact that Grandma was nice, so she entered into the Statute of the City, it's something that's obviously unconstitutional. Remember one thing, the president of the National Assembly calls elections, and the additional ones, when some local self-government unit assembly is dissolved. The assembly of the city municipality of Zemun is not a local self-government unit. So, with this statute, tie the cat to the tail, because if this were to be applied then temporary measures should be imposed in the city of Belgrade, the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, on a proposal from the Minister for Local Self-Government, the Government Act, and the National Assembly president will call elections for the Belgrade City Assembly and all city municipalities. It could only be constitutional, and you can estimate, if because of your problems, because at any cost Vucic, Đilas, Rakic and Delic want to win power to justify themselves in the tycoon for the location they sold before the election... That's the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u8999	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u9000	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On Article 3 of this Act, the gentleman submitted an amendment to points (1) and (2). I think this amendment should be accepted, but before I say anything about the amendment itself, I would take advantage of the opportunity to say something in principle about the law. So when a law that has 19 members is submitted to 122 amendments by the position and opposition in the majority, what conclusion can be drawn from that? So, the law is no good. The law is inadmissible. It's so bad it harms the citizens of Serbia, it harms the whole country. It's simple, the law should be withdrawn from the procedure. It's the simplest solution. Is it possible for MPs to submit this number of amendments to this law? What does this mean? Who did the Ministry consult with? Was there a public debate about this? What does the Judges' Society say about this? There's a general halabuca in society about this law. I think this is about a kind of lustration in the judiciary. What are we gonna do with this number of judges? Where are they going to work? What are we gonna do with those buildings that are gonna be empty? How much does it cost to support these buildings? How much is heating, electricity, water? So, what's the point of this law? The aim of the law is lustration. In the light of the law, it is stated that one of the main parameters of which the geographical position of cities was taken into account. Please, let's see if that's the case. I'll give you two examples. For example, an example of a district that has only four municipalities and has two basic courts, an example of another district that has 12 municipalities and has one basic court. So what are these criteria? Today, during the debate, SRS MP Mr Sreto Peric cited an example of the municipality of Ljubovija, i.e. the difference between two basic courts, Užica and Loznica, 150 kilometers. Does anyone know what the road network is like in that part of Serbia? Does anyone know what a traffic network is in that part of Serbia, how people will travel? Whoever knows that wouldn't suggest it be a network of courts like this. Here, time won't let me, I'll end it, but there are more amendments, so I'll get back to you about those amendments anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-03-0.u9001	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. We have completed our work today. We will continue tomorrow at 10pm, with the amendment of the 3rd People's MP, Mr. Milisav Petronivic. Thank you for your cooperation.
