ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6782	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. Minister and the two of them, of course, I say hello. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 1, 6 and 7 part of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON AUTHORITY OF COURT AND COURT OF COURT AND COUNTRIES OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT AND OF COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT AND OF THE IMPLEMENTMENTS OF THE LAWS (joint principled search) Consensus Decisions of the National Assembly to carry out a joint search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 6 and 7 and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 9 minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojslav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia – 24 minutes; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 14 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: draft law on the regulation of courts, draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors and draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on infringements. Does anyone want a word? There's a word Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6783	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Members of the Chairman, reporting in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. We learned, yesterday, late, that Pristina had rejected a six-point agreement. My question is to the government and the foreign minister. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6784	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow us to hear Mr Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6785	My question, in fact, is to give an explanation and notice – how did Pristina come to this agreement? In recent days, we have learned from some semi-secret channels that some talks are being held with UN representatives, that their representatives are here in Belgrade and that these are talks that are conducted exclusively between Belgrade and the UN General Secretariat. Pristina has not been mentioned here. So, however, not to inform the public, talks were held with Pristina, at least indirectly. Not only has our state leadership agreed to move EULEX to KIM, not only has it agreed to apply Ahtisaari's plan, and EULEX makes up one very important part of it, but our leadership has agreed to have post-conditional talks, so a step further. So the talks were held that Pristina would also accept a six-point agreement – we found out yesterday. We don't have to get into the very thing here. We will do so when the agenda and the vote of no confidence is done to the government, but I want to draw attention to you – that we were right all the time when we asked to have a conversation about Kosovo, or about the resolution or about the vote of no confidence in the government, because we were against having this kind of state policy led behind closed doors. It's not just that behind closed doors, EULEX has been accepted with certain conditions, which we'll talk about when the time is right, but it's also accepted a conversation with Pristina. It's actually the beginning of these good neighbourly relationships, which they're slowly getting us into. For starters, I can only tell you that after the acceptance of EULEX the next point will be to accept fourteen points of Ischinger's plan. So, not only was Ahtisaari's plan rejected on our part, but Ischinger's plan was also rejected from the second phase of the negotiations in an opportunity to be implemented very quickly. I don't know if our leadership is doing this out of diplomatic dilettance and ignorance or whether it's doing it out of some intention. (President: Time. I'm afraid it's a little bit of both. But what I do know is that the Assembly has to discuss it. So we're waiting for this item of the agenda and the next session that we didn't get now, because of the simple verbal trick we were exposed to at the last session of the Assembly. Anyway, this thing has to be discussed. There's a secret policy and it's a policy that goes against our country's interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6786	There's a word Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I would just like to inform you that representatives are authorized on this agenda point: Mr. Jovan Palalic for the DSS Parliamentary Group, and Ratko Vlatkovic for the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6787	Thank you. I report on the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, which states that – the President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly and other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. When an initiative to question confidence was submitted to the Government, you were obliged to put that initiative on the agenda of the first next session, as set out in the regulations. You didn't do it, but you made it up that you couldn't do it then, that it was the first next session, actually, the next one after this session. That, of course, broke the Constitution and the law. The whole idea of discussing this issue has arisen because of the very unusual situation in which the state is located, that someone, and who, we still don't know, because we see that the government, on the one hand, doesn't exist in the way our constitutional system predicts, because on behalf of the government for all projects, only one spokesman speaks for all things in this country, which is Boris Tadic. You could see on TV last night, TV contributions, on TV's 'data', both on B92 and on RTS and on other TV stations, where Boris Tadic speaks of everything that is most important, and what is the affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, including foreign affairs. Of course, we had a chance to see Wolf Jeremiah these days. They spoke, and Vuk Jeremic particularly, about -- not having any secret negotiations between the EU and Serbia on the implementation of Eulex, but allegedly having talks with the UN. That is simply not true, because all the news we hear in the meantime and everything we can read between the lines suggests that, in fact, there are secret negotiations with certain EU representatives, which are obviously not identified as official negotiators here. Unlike earlier policies, previously agreed state policies, there is now clearly a secret, not a state policy. It aims to implement something that, for its primary and ultimate purpose, has, no matter what is formally said, KIM's independence. It's something we're not going to admit here, or what the ruling majority doesn't want to admit is that their sole goal is precisely the implementation of the Eulex Agreement. It is an EU agreement with itself, because it has never made the agreement with Serbia. But it's obvious that at the outset of making one scenario, that's the scenario it's made, it's just his realization that some so-called. The six-point UN agreement, which the Albanian side is reportedly hearing, will not accept, and will likely be completed in a day or two, has come into effect, with the idea that the agreement should be statusally neutral. That's bullshit. It would be the same if we said it could be an independent Kosovo, provided it was statusally neutral. That's about that kind of logic. I don't think this, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be so easy for you, and the celebrations you're about to prepare, after a possible entry into force of such an agreement or adoption into the UN, you'll keep it to yourself, because Serbian citizens have no right to do so, nor the obligation to suffer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6788	Does the representative, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6789	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, every wise politician knows that just from the degree of independence of the judiciary depends on his position as a citizen. The more his mandate opens the door to democratisation of institutions, the more his interest, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, will be protected. Therefore, it is a special honor and pleasure to have today’s debate on the laws governing the organisation of judicial authorities. These laws, on the one hand, represent the harmonisation of laws in this area with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and, on the other hand, they make new solutions that will lead to the fundamental reform of judicial authorities and contribute to increasing their efficiency and improving the quality of their work. Today, the National Assembly will discuss the following laws: the Law on Regulating Courts, the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Violations. Now, in the shortest lines, I would like to introduce you to the most significant solutions contained in each of these laws. With regard to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the draft law on the regulation of courts is a legal process of Article 143. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia according to which the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia belongs to courts of general and special jurisdiction and that the establishment, organisation, jurisdiction and regulation of courts is governed by law. The draft law on the regulation of courts is divided into nine chapters: principles, external arrangements of courts, jurisdiction of courts, internal court offices, judicial staff, judicial administration, court security, means of working courts and transitional and final provisions. Among the principles of the bill, the principle of legality, which has been declared by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, should be specifically mentioned. This principle determines that courts can only be established and abolished by law and that temporary, interrupted and extraordinary courts cannot be established. In addition, jurisdiction is determined only by the Constitution or by law, and the court cannot refuse to act in matters that are placed in his jurisdiction. The next important principle is the principle of judicial independence, according to which judicial authority is independent of other branches of government. The draft law contains a provision relating to the prohibition of influence on the court. In particular, the ban on influence is stressed by using a public position or influence through means of public information. It is also prescribed that court decisions are mandatory for all and that they can only be questioned in a legally prescribed court procedure. The principle of the public implies that the debate before the court is public and that the public can only be limited by law, in accordance with the Constitution. The other shall contain provisions relating to the external arrangements of the court. The draft law, in accordance with the Constitution, provides that there are two types of courts in the Republic, namely, courts of general and courts of special jurisdiction. The courts of general jurisdiction are: basic courts, senior courts, appeals courts and Supreme Cassation Court. And the courts of special jurisdiction are: commercial courts, Commercial Court of Appeal, Infringement courts, Higher Criminal Court and Administrative Court. In accordance with that constitutional provision, the highest court in the Republic of Serbia is the Supreme Cassation Court responsible for deciding on emergency legal remedies for decisions of lower courts. This division of jurisdiction is a normative framework for the most rational and efficient regulation and division of jurisdiction of courts in the Republic of Serbia. The bill states that the courts of the republic's rank, in addition to the Supreme Casation Court, and the Commercial Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court of Justice and the Administrative Court, are established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law provides that court proceedings can also be conducted outside the court's seat by allowing court days to be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Also, the law provides for the education of judicial units. The bill also regulates the timing of court proceedings. The special paper is a provision relating to the respect of working time, under which judges and court staff are required to strictly respect working time and rules of conduct in court, which will be precisely governed by the rules of procedure. In addition, unlike the applicable law, the bill no longer provides for a provision on court leave. Chapter 3 of the Law regulates the jurisdiction of courts, which is fundamentally amended in relation to the applicable Law. The basic court is in charge of a criminal trial, for which a sentence of up to 10 years has been threatened. In civil law disputes, the basic court is in charge of disputes that cannot be declared audit, as well as in housing and labour disputes. In the first instance, the Court of First Instance judges both in executive and out-of-party proceedings for which no other court has jurisdiction. The basic court also performs other tasks under a certain law, such as international legal aid transactions. A senior court in the first degree of criminal offences for which a sentence of over 10 years is provided for, judges in criminal proceedings against minors, as well as for other criminal offences taxed in the draft law. As regards jurisdiction in civil law disputes, the Supreme Court judges in the case where the value of the dispute allows for the publication of the audit, as well as in other disputes by a certain law. As regards second-degree jurisdiction, it is significantly changed in relation to the jurisdiction of existing district courts. So, in the second degree, the Supreme Court decides to appeal the decisions of the basic courts, only in a reduced criminal procedure, to determine the measure of security of the presence of the accused in criminal proceedings, in disputes of small value and in enforcement and out-of-park proceedings. The bill provides for the education of appeals courts with jurisdiction to decide on complaints against decisions of senior and basic courts. In this way, on the one hand, the unification of judicial practice is achieved, and on the other hand, the dissipation of the highest court in the Republic of Serbia from the decision-making of regular legal medicines. The Court of First Instance of the Court of First Instance, with each other’s jurisdiction, shows that the Court of Appeal will decide on regular legal remedies, except in the case of an exception already mentioned relating to situations where the Supreme Court decides in the second instance, mainly on decisions of a procedural nature, then, because of the urgency of the case and where justified, in view of the type of case. In this way, a consistent division of first-degree and second-degree courts will be carried out, i.e. to form a court which will decide solely by appeal, which was not the case in the applicable laws. Such an organisation will also implement the necessary specialisation of judges and contribute to the efficiency of procedures and better exercise of citizens' rights. As regards specialised courts, I would point out that the powers of economic and economic appeals courts have been changed to a certain extent in relation to the jurisdiction of the existing commercial courts, in particular with regard to the transfer of registration of economic operators from the jurisdiction of the court, as well as to the application of the law on companies. Also, the name itself has been changed in accordance with the regulations governing companies. As new specialised courts, the law provides for the Administrative Court for rulings on administrative disputes and misdemeanors and the Higher Violent Court for decision-making in a misdemeanour procedure. The law stipulates that the criminal court, the Supreme Criminal Court and the Administrative Court as courts of the Republic rank may have a department outside the seat in which they permanently judge and take other judicial actions. The division outside the seat of the criminal court shall be designated as the territory of the city, or one or more municipalities of the court. The basic commercial court may have a judicial unit outside its seat in which it judges, take other judicial actions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. A judicial unit outside the seat of the basic and commercial court shall be designated for the territory of one or more municipalities in the area of the court. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. The Supreme Cassation Court decides on extraordinary legal means declared to the decisions of the courts of the Republic of Serbia and other matters by a certain law. The Supreme Cassation Court will decide on the conflict of jurisdiction between courts, as well as the transfer of jurisdiction to courts in order to facilitate the conduct of proceedings or other important reasons. In addition to the basic jurisdiction, the draft law also provides for the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court outside the trial, which consists of the fact that this court lays down principled legal views for the sake of uniform judicial application of law, considers the application of laws and other rules relevant to the work of the courts, appoints judges of the Constitutional Court, gives an opinion on the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and performs other tasks. The draft law did not significantly amend the provisions relating to the internal arrangements of the court and the judicial administration. The paper is a solution that the court may have one or more deputy court presidents. It is prescribed that certain cases of the judicial administration may be entrusted by the President of the Court of Justice and by the presidents of the judicial department, which is particularly important in courts that will have a specialised department. The President of the High Court has the authority to oversee the judicial administration of the lower court. The draft law provides for proceedings under complaints from parties or other participants in the court proceedings. In addition, the courts are scheduled to have a court secretary, deployed by the president, who assists the president of the court in the affairs of the judicial administration. Chapter 5 contains provisions relating to judicial staff. The judicial staff shall consist of judicial assistants, judicial interns, civil servants and deputies working on administrative and other affairs carried out in a court of law. The bill regulates the calling of judicial assistants as well as the evaluation of their work. In particular, it should be noted that the judge's assistant is assessed by the president of the court in the prepared opinion of the session of the department in which the judge's assistant works. The paper is the possibility of a judicial assistant to state a complaint about a decision on the assessment of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Chapter 6 of the bill contains provisions relating to judicial administration. The paper in the bill is that the affairs of the judicial administration are divided between the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice. The High Council of the judiciary shall, inter alia, carry out the tasks of the judicial administration relating to the establishment of general guidelines for the internal organisation of courts, cases relating to the management of the personal papers of judges and court staff and certain cases relating to the proposal and control of the court budget. It is also an important provision that requires that every act of the judicial administration which touches the independence and independence of the court and the judges, and that such indifference is determined by the Administrative Court. A solution has also been retained from the current law that the Rules of Procedure, which prescribes internal arrangements and the work of the court, brings the minister in charge of the judiciary, with the opinion of the president of the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. The administration of the Registrar is being supervised, as has been so far, by the Ministry of Justice. Chapter 7 contains provisions relating to the security of the court. Those provisions are unchanged in relation to the applicable Law. However, in the light of the security needs of the judicial authorities, the Justice Ministry is thinking that a special law should be passed in the follow-up to the judicial reform, which would in a much more detailed way regulate the area related to the security of the judicial authorities, which would further regulate the judicial guard, whose jurisdiction would be significantly extended compared to the existing one. On the basis of the provisions of Chapter 8 of the Law proposal relating to resources for the work of courts, the most important newspapers are contained in the provisions that the High Council of the judiciary proposes this and the structure of the budgetary resources necessary for the current expenditure, as well as that it oversees the spending of these funds. In this way, conditions are created for the establishment of a specific part of the budget relating to covering current costs for the work of courts, thus achieving a certain financial independence of courts. As regards capital investments related to the work of judicial authorities, this jurisdiction is the obligation of the Ministry of Justice as the authority of the State Administration to provide conditions for the work of judicial authorities. In order to prepare the High Council for the judiciary to take over fully the work on the proposal and allocation of funds for the work of courts, transitional provisions provide that these cases will be taken over by the High Judicial Council as of 1 January 2011. Chapter 9 contains transitional and final provisions. These provisions of the draft law regulate the continuation of the work of existing courts and infringement authorities until 31. 12. In 2009. It also sets the way and deadlines for adjudicating and downloading cases, archives, equipment and staff from courts that cease to work, in law-scheduled courts. The new court organisation is scheduled to start working on January 1st 2010. These deadlines are in line with the period for which the choice of judges is to be made, and in the period from the entry into force of the law until the date of application of the law will be passed. At the end of this presentation of the draft law on the regulation of courts, I would like to say a few words about the drafting of this legal text. As is known, after the adoption of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, a commission for its implementation has been educated. In 2006, the Commission educated a working group to draw up a principle to be applied to the construction of judicial laws. Members of the working group were holders of judicial functions, some of them members of professional associations, lawyers. In line with the principles drawn up by the aforementioned working group at the Justice Ministry, an initial working version of the law on the regulation of courts sent to the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Association of Judges of Serbia and the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe at the end of 2007. In early 2008 an expert opinion from the Venice Commission was obtained. In February 2008, a roundtable was held in Belgrade regarding the above-mentioned law involving experts who produced an opinion, as well as representatives of judicial authorities and the Judges' Society. Experts from the Venice Commission positively assessed the text of the working version of the law, as well as experts from the European Commission who were in Belgrade in April 2008. The text of the working version of the law was made available to the general public on the website of the Ministry of Justice. Meanwhile, the text of the working version suffered a certain change in line with the suggestions of the Venice Commission, the Supreme Court and the Judges' Society. At the beginning of September 2008, an expert debate was held on the amended text of the working version of the law, organised by the Ministry of Justice and the OSCE Mission. Afterwards, the ministry drafted a bill that, in accordance with the government's Rules of Procedure and the current Law on Court Order, was delivered to the competent authorities and the Supreme Court of Serbia. The final text of the draft law addressed to the Government in order to establish the draft law for the National Assembly was drawn up after opinions. A presentation of the final text of the bill was carried out shortly before the adoption at the government's round table, held in Belgrade on October 29th, ahead of the widest professional public, the organisation of the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia. Now I'd like to say a few words about the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. Article 6 The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, stipulates that courts and public prosecutors continue to work to comply with the Constitution of the regulations which are governed by their organisation and jurisdiction, and Article 15 of that law will be brought into line by 31 December 2008. The adoption of a new law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is necessary in order to comply with the amendments proposed in the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors, as well as with the creation of a legal framework for the establishment of a new network of judicial authorities, which will establish a more rational territorial organisation of courts and public prosecutors. At the same time, the proposed judicial organisation shall make sure that it does not disrupt the availability of justice for all citizens. The draft law in Article 2 shall be governed by the seats and areas of jurisdiction of infringement courts. Since it is proposed that, instead of the municipal authorities for violations of jurisdiction in the infringement proceedings, criminal courts should be designated as the seats and areas of jurisdiction of these courts. According to current regulations, there are 173 municipal law enforcement authorities in the Republic of Serbia. According to the proposed solution, the number of misdemeanor courts is 45, and the departments of these courts are 102. As a parameter for determining the number of courts and departments, the number of judges required according to the number of cases in work and the prescribed standard has been taken into account. In addition to the above mentioned parameter, when drawing up the draft law, the number of courts and courts departments, data were used on the average of three-year inflows of regular cases and legal aid cases, the area of jurisdiction of the court, the distance to the second nearest court, the road network, near the border, near tourist facilities, as well as the fact of the increased inflow of the case in 2007. Also taken into account the fact that every seven citizens of the Republic of Serbia join the infringement authority annually. On this occasion, I would point out that our country has put a reserve on the European Convention on Human Rights precisely because there are no courts for violations, but there are authorities for violations that are part of the administrative authority. With regard to the seats and areas of jurisdiction of the basic courts, I point out that according to the current Law on the Republic of Serbia there are 138 municipal courts, and that this law proposes that there are 34 basic courts, which take over the jurisdiction of existing municipal courts to the greatest extent. In accordance with the Law on the Regulation of Courts, in all municipalities where municipal courts and departments of municipal courts are located, judicial units of basic courts have been educated. In those judicial units, trials and other cases will be conducted, including submissions of submissions, complaints, complaints, complaints, complaints, complaints, cases of confirmation, dealings of censure and other transactions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which will make it possible for citizens, as so far, to have full access to the Court of Justice. On the other hand, the proposed network of basic courts will allow a much larger number of judges to judge in cases, as judges are elected as a court rather than a judicial unit, thus achieving a more objective work of the court, the proper distribution of the case, and thus a faster resolution of the proceedings, as well as the unification of the case-law, will then avoid the influence of the local environment on the work of judges. The proposed network of basic courts is in line with the analysis of the work of the so far-called municipal courts and the average inflow of cases. The reason for the education of the basic courts lies because a large number of municipal courts have a small inflow of cases and a small number of judges, so the irrational survival of such courts. When determining the number of basic courts and the area of their jurisdiction, in addition to the inflow of cases, it was taken into account that at least one basic court was in each city and administrative district in the Republic of Serbia. In addition, as a criterion for the education of the basic court, the criteria for geographical distance, the development of the travel network, the concentration of the population were taken. For these reasons, the headquarters of the basic courts are located in cities designated in accordance with the rules on territorial organisation, as well as the district headquarters, or municipalities where, because of the size of the territory, the travel network, or the means of communication, it was necessary to educate the basic court. In accordance with the actual jurisdiction of the courts prescribed in the proposed law on the regulation of courts, the actual jurisdiction of senior courts whose establishment is proposed, as already stated, differs in one part from the actual jurisdiction of the existing district courts, especially when it comes to decision-making by appeal. As regards seats and areas of higher courts, as regards existing seats and district courts, the proposed solution does not contain more significant changes than the applicable Law. As the current Law on the Regulation of Courts, as well as the proposed Law on the Regulation of Courts, provides for the existence of appeals courts to be settled in the second degree on decisions of senior courts and certain decisions of the basic courts. Four appeals courts, based in four of the largest cities in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, are proposed. The areas of their jurisdiction are unchanged in relation to the applicable Law. With regard to the powers of the High Court of Justice and the Administrative Court, there are three such departments based in Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad, due to the rationality and efficiency of the proceedings. During the education of these departments, the necessity of allowing second-degree court access to citizens and reducing the costs that citizens could have without the existence of a department. In relation to the Administrative Court, the departments are also formed because the judicial control of administrative acts concerns acts brought by the authorities of the territorial autonomy unit or the local self-government unit. In addition to the above, the bill set out the seats and areas of jurisdiction of the public prosecutors in such a way as to be accompanied by the seats and areas of the competent courts. A new network of judicial authorities is scheduled to start operating on 1 January 2010. These deadlines are in line with the deadlines proposed by the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors, and also with the period during which the choice of legal holders is to be carried out. At the end of this presentation of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, I would also like to make a few remarks on the process of drawing up this legal text. The justice ministry has educated a working group tasked with carrying out a detailed analysis of the number of court cases by courts in the Republic of Serbia, which would be the starting basis for the construction of a new network of judicial authorities. During 2007 and 2008, data were collected from all courts in the Republic of Serbia, which were then processed and analysed. Also, data from Serbia's Supreme Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office's annual reports have been analysed. Data and methodology of the High Council of Justice were also used, which were used when setting out the proposal for a decision on the number of judges submitted to the Assembly for adoption during 2006, and then withdrawn from the procedure. Based on the data collected, a picture of each court's burden, i.e. judges in the Republic of Serbia, was created. On this basis, it was approached to draw up the working text of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors in order to create the most rational network of judicial authorities. The task force had in mind, in addition to the even burden of all courts, and other important criteria for determining the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. These criteria are, above all, the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, the degree of development of certain areas, geographical distance and population density, the development of the travel network, the proximity of the state border, the national composition of the population and other criteria. Accordingly, the first draft law on seats and areas was drawn up, which was subsequently amended as a result of remarks and suggestions that arrived at the Ministry of Justice. The above remarks concluded that the most rational solution to the network of judicial authorities is the solution contained in the text of the Bills and which I have just presented to you. A presentation of the final text of the draft law was carried out shortly before the adoption of the bill at a round table held in Belgrade on 29 October. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements – regulates the concept of infringements, conditions for criminal liability, conditions for the regulation and application of criminal sanctions, system of sanctions, criminal proceedings and procedure for enforcement of decisions. The reasons for the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements relate to the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with this need to comply with that law with the Constitution. The reason for the adoption of this law is also the need to align the level of fines for violations with existing social circumstances. The adoption of this law is also necessary in order to specify certain provisions and to align the jurisdiction of the criminal courts, the Higher Criminal Court and the Authority of the Administrations responsible for the conduct of the infringement procedure with the type and severity of the infringements, as well as the number of cases in the work. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that after the debate, in principle and in particular, the proposed laws will be adopted, creating a regulatory framework for the comprehensive organisation of judicial authorities, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the needs of our country, and above all our citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6790	I thank Mrs. Malovic, Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the MP Laszlo Varga, who gave an opinion at the Committee on Justice and Administration session, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6791	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion at the Committee session on the basis of a draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. Now I'm going to try to explain why I did it. According to our conviction, i.e. According to the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, rationalisation of the network of courts is needed, judicial reform is needed. We believe this bill does not take into account some very, very important facts. It's all done with the purpose of saving and rationalizing, which we can understand. However, if the aim is to save and rationalise, then it is a little hypocritical to start the process in the judiciary. Namely, when the government has 27 members plus two cabinets, when there are enormous salaries in public enterprises and receiving boards, then I think the executive authority should first start saving in its ranks, and only then continue saving in the judiciary. On the other hand, this bill greatly ignores the fact that Serbia is a multiethnic state. According to the bill, the number of municipal courts or basic courts is reduced from 138 to 34. So it survives, about 25% of municipal courts. As for municipal courts operating in areas where national minorities form an absolute or relative majority, there are 14 such courts, only two remain. This means that the reduction compared to these courts is much, much, much more drastic. Generally, there are one quarter of the courts, and as for courts operating in areas where minorities live in large numbers, there is only one week. This little reminds us of the identification of the boundaries of the electoral units or the borders of the administrative districts from the early 1970s, and it is unacceptable for us. The explanation by which it was taken into account the geographical distance of Vojvodina is not true. According to this proposal, there is a court in Somboro, Kickindi, Subotica, Novi Sad. That means that by looking east to west between two courts, there are more than 100 kilometers. Looking from the north to the south is the same situation, so there's a huge hole in Vojvodina's territory in the middle, a huge 100-mile circle. We cannot help but notice that there are no basic courts in those areas where minorities, and above all, in the case of the Vojvodina Hungarian community, are the majority. I don't think that should be acceptable. For these reasons, we have submitted several amendments. The essence of these amendments is that there is a court in Backo Topoli, Sainta and Vienna. We think there are good arguments to accept these amendments. In fact, the smallest court according to the bill is in Boro. The district of Bor lives in 55,000 inhabitants, and according to our proposal, according to our amendments, in that case, the smallest court would be in Backo Topoli with over 50,000 inhabitants, and the Santa court would have about 85,000 inhabitants, a court in Vienna of 114,000. We do not think, in this way, in any case, that we would re-evaluate the concept of the law, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we would respect the fact that Serbia, and above all, is a multiethnic state, or multiethnic region. At the very end, as to the argument that in this way a much larger number of judges will act in cases, since judges are elected as a court rather than a judicial unit, that is, if all of Serbia is taken into account, exactly, but if these areas are taken into account in which minorities live, it is not true, because if you attach the court to Presevo and Bujanovac in Vranj, you will not increase the number of those judges who know or who are able to judge in Albanian. So this argument is not true. So for all these reasons, I've singled out my opinion, and for all these reasons, the Union of Duke Hungarians in this form cannot support this bill. As for the other draft laws, we consider them... (President: Time. I'm finishing up, they're good, and we're ready to vote for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6792	I thank Mr. Varga. I would like to inform you that I received the following memo from Mr Batic's MP, 10.11.2008: ''According to Article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby inform you that I will participate and act as an independent MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia in the future in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. ''Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not yet applied, want a word? Mr Palalic signed up on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6793	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a number of very important system laws in the area of justice, which fundamentally change the judicial system in Serbia. We are witnesses, in the past few months, serious debates being held within the framework of the judiciary, all those who are holders of judicial functions, judges, prosecutors, judges and experts. The first, strongest, impression is that this judicial public is strong against this bill, which is now under discussion in the National Assembly. The question arises – to what extent did the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have heard about those who need to make decisions, for those who exercise judicial authority, for those who need to ensure that the laws in this country are implemented and that the most important demands of citizens are ensured, that is, the rule of law and the availability of justice? It is these few laws that are first on the agenda, the draft law on the regulation of courts, and especially the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which is something that is in conflict not only with the judicial public, but has also caused serious disturbance of citizens in many municipalities. Because the abolition of a court in one environment is certainly bad news, not only for citizens who need to turn to the court to protect their rights, but also for a single area where it is necessary to provide investments and new jobs, as well as the possibility to provide new economic potentials and solve economic and social problems in these environments. The message to both citizens and businesses and investors, and to the general public that in one municipality the court is abolished, is the worst message that can be received at this time by the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards citizens. When the laws are looked at, the draft law on the regulation of courts, especially this second law, the first impression is that there were no convincing criteria, and in particular the fact that we in the DSS Group have on the number of cases, on the inflow of cases in many courts in Serbia that are now being abolished, for absolutely incredible reasons – that certain municipal courts remain as basic courts, and that some other courts, although these places are several times larger courts, several times greater inflows of cases in these courts, are completely abolished, they are turning into some judicial units, which we are going to talk about, which are not as significant as they wish to present to you lawmakers, trying to explain both to the judicial and judicial public, and to the citizens that they will all be the same. Nothing more, after the application and entry into force of these laws, in Serbia's judiciary will be the same. When looking at the draft law governing courts, the first thing that falls into the eyes is the jurisdiction of the basic and higher court. I can say here, in front of the DSS Parliamentary Group, that the basic court, which now comes down from 138 municipal courts to 34, is completely downgraded from the high court. We get two first-degree courts, and the basic court, which should be the foundation of the judiciary and the place where the availability of justice will be best and most tangible, loses one very important jurisdiction and to this end is degraded, so the question is how will the basic courts function in these environments. Not to mention, all the lawyers in the National Assembly know what kind of controversy will be caused by the provision of Article 23, paragraph 7, which says that the jurisdiction of senior courts is based on civil law disputes when the value of the subject-matter enables the publication of the audit. Therefore, in all the basic courts, the jurisdiction of those courts is abolished to judge the audit process. Let me remind you, this value of slow at this point is 500 thousand dinars. We can come to a serious situation that in completely insignificant and small disputes is based on jurisdiction in basic courts. I will give only one example of what kind of situation a party who is leading the proceedings before a basic and senior court in matters of civil law dispute may face, precisely referring to this fact. We may have a situation where the party marks the value of the dispute, let's say, 400,000 dinars, that the basic court shall establish jurisdiction on the basis of this marked value of the dispute, to carry out the proceedings, to carry out evidence through hearings of witnesses, skills and, on the basis of all this evidence, the party may at the end of the proceedings specify the claim and mark it another 600,000. At the end of the proceedings, this basic court is being declared incompetent, returning the case to a senior court which is being declared then, looking strictly at this law, really competent, so we come to a situation where we do not know which way further proceedings are being conducted and what will be done by a higher court. That we are not saying that the uniformity of court practice will also be questioned. These are the problems of degradation of the basic court, i.e. In fact, the actual judicial authority in Serbia is concentrated in 26 higher courts, 26 cities or municipalities will have what is called real judicial authority, and the rest of Serbia will be in serious trouble. Serbian citizens will not have the opportunity to solve their problems properly. You can imagine a situation where, for example, when it comes to the costs of the procedure and when it comes to the audit procedure, instead of taking the lead in one of the municipal seats or, now in the basic court, the case, the evidence, we'll be forced to perform, the witnesses, all those people who have the place where the trial takes place, we're going to take them to another place. The costs of the procedure shall be multiplied. All of this is completely irrational, expensive, and, above all, at this point, to no one incomprehensible. As for the proposal on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, I believe that at this point, both in this room and in the public of Serbia, it is unclear to anyone what criteria were in the establishment of 34 basic courts. We have amazing things. We remove courts that have several tens of thousands of cases and I'll list some courts. This is especially the case in Vojvodina where we have cities of 50, 60, 70,000 inhabitants and in fact only eight basic courts in 45 municipalities. We have a drastic example, that in the area of the basic court of Novi Sad, it is the area of the Southern District, of 12 municipalities, only Novi Sad has a basic court, and 11 municipalities have no basic court, no higher court. The concentration of all the judicial authorities, one basic court, one senior court, one commercial court, one appeal court is in Novi Sad. Eleven municipalities of the Southern District have no possibility of having at least one basic court, and you have municipalities that have 60-70 thousand inhabitants and have inflows of cases, such as the Vrbas which had 32,652 cases in 2007. In this year alone in Vrbas, 521 cases were investigated, in criminal proceedings 607, in litigation procedure 1.179, in the absence of 1,017, execution 2,308, only for the first six months. Also, in Bačka Palanca, in 2006, there were 26,000 items, in 2007 25,000, and only this year according to the referendums – In cases 260, litigious 779, labour disputes P1 – 1.184. Such cases are also in Vienna, and in Gornji Milanovac, and in Arangelovac, and in other cities. So you have thousands of objects, and you have the elimination of these vessels about the same size. You have other basic courts. We at the DSS advocate not to change the existing network of courts, that all municipal courts that now exist in Serbia have the status of basic courts. You have illogicalities, I've cited a drastic example of Southbay County where 11 municipalities don't have a court, there's only New Sad. You have an example of Bor having his primary court and not covering any other municipality. The Borski district has four municipalities, and Negotin has a basic court and covers the area of Kladov and Majdanpek. That's amazing. In the area of one district that has four municipalities you have two basic courts, and in the area of one district that has 12 municipalities you have only one court. I ask the Minister of Justice to come out and say what is the inflow of the case in the municipal court in Bor and Negotin, and some other municipalities do not deserve to have a basic court! These are serious questions that we didn't get an answer to, except for the flat-rate view that they analyzed the number of inflows of objects. The absence of any criterion is a characteristic of this bill. In the area of AP KiM you only have one – both basic, and higher, and business, and Higher Commercial Court. It's just amazing. I ask the Minister to come out and answer this question! Not to mention what kind of message it is in the environments that have serious investments, especially in the area of Srema, in India, in Ruma, in Old Paz, there is no court. You can imagine the situation to now tell these foreign investors who have invested huge capital – in this municipality where you invested millions of dollars there is no more court. It's a terrible message for people who need to keep their capital and continue their business, especially to tell some other environments that are yet to develop. I believe that the general consensus in the National Assembly is that balanced regional development is a key policy to be led in Serbia, that Serbia, when it comes to regional development, has great contradictions and underdevelopment. And you send a message to all potential investors that in these areas, where you have a big demographic discharge, where you have a bad infrastructure, a great unemployment, now you tell those local self-governments that are trying to attract investors – you know what, all right, we provide free building land, we provide you with municipal supplies, but you are being lifted from court. The government has abolished your court and everything you need in front of a competent primary court, you won't be able to satisfy it. Now let me say something about the status of the judicial units. We listen to these days continuously in statements from the government's representatives that everything will be the same, that nothing will change, that judicial units, maltenes, will be the primary courts and that citizens can be carefree, make available to justice something that will be provided. I would just like to remind the esteemed Minister Malovic of her interview in the daily daily "Today", where she said: "The judicial units will exist in all places where there have been courts so far, and the computer program will assign objects to a judge who will go to a certain place... ". So, the judges are going to travel, say, the judge from Cacque won't judge Cacaco, he'll judge in Luciani. "... to the trial, which allows for a shorter duration of proceedings and the impartiality of the court." This is very interesting, how this will allow for a shorter duration of the procedure. Imagine the judge who has his place of residence, who cannot judge there, was re-elected on the basis of this general re-election, which we are about to discuss, for the judge of the basic court in the place where the basic court under this bill is, he has no residence in that place, he has this judicial unit in that place, but he will not judge, but he will judge in a third place. He needs to be paid for by a bus or a train ticket, he needs to lose all day for one item, he'll get there, maybe no party attorneys will come, maybe no witnesses will come, he'll delay the debate, he'll come back and he'll be reimbursed. I don't see rationality in that way to regulate the judicial system, if desired, as declared here, in any way possible to provide savings. We will face an increase in costs, with no access to justice in more than 100 places where municipal courts are abolished. We will face a huge increase in costs, we will face great dissatisfaction with citizens, a poor message to potential investors who want to invest in areas where courts are lifted, with great concern for companies that have already invested capital in the areas where courts are removed, and we will face the fact that Serbia is sending a message that its judicial system is entering into a turbulent time and, above all, that the judges are no longer safe. I can say, when it comes to the way and general re-election, it was an opportunity to increase efficiency. In the Law on Judges, this area of disciplinary responsibility and disciplinary procedure is not poorly arranged. There are mechanisms to sanction judges who in all possible ways and break the law and delay procedures, but to go to the general re-election and thus endanger judicial independence and continuity, that is a major problem. I can say that this is one of the few sets of laws that the public and the citizens of Serbia, and also the judicial public, did not welcome with welcome. It would be better for the government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw these laws from the assembly procedure, to hear all the criticisms heard from various professional and judicial associations these days, from citizens and, based on these proposals and criticisms, to make new proposals to the National Assembly. We at the DSS have done a large number of amendments, all in order to fix these bad legal solutions. I also appeal to the esteemed minister to accept these amendments, to hear our arguments and criticism, to create a strong and effective judicial system. I do not dispute good intentions, but I think that the direction in which the reform of the judiciary has gone is not good, that we all together make one good judicial system that will make it possible for citizens to have access to justice, to achieve their basic human rights and their rights that belong to them under the law and that will protect all those who want to invest in municipalities that are sending a bad message at this point to abolish the courts. There's no worse message at this point than "we're pulling a court in your community, you don't deserve to have a court"! Please, esteemed representatives of the government, to hear this message, and I believe the other MPs will say that, we come from different backgrounds, never worse atmosphere, when it comes to a set of judicial laws, it wasn't. The DSS Parliament Club will participate very actively in this discussion, wanting to contribute to, and if, however, you decide to vote for this bill, we will be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6794	The president of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, then Mr Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6795	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, I would like first, not in the form of a comment, but simply to thank Mr Batic for his years of co-operation, given that we have become full members of the European Liberal Democrats. With great rights, we are followed by certain obligations and these obligations are currently separated by the LDP Parliament Club and by Mr Batic's party, which is a conservative orientation. Of course, we will continue to cooperate and defend those values for which we have fought together in previous years. I thought I owed that brief explanation. Now I'd like to go back to the debate about the proposed laws. First of all, Madam President, I would like to express the great dissatisfaction of our Parliament group over the atmosphere in which this debate is being held and under way. We think that the minimum has imposed on you, here in Parliament, a respect for the legislative one, and therefore also on the judicial authority, which the legislative authority is currently discussing, is a full presence of the executive authority. The fact that we are used to living in a society where both the legislative and judicial authorities are demoted does not mean that we can enter into judicial reform by demeaning the legislative authority through the ignoring of the executive authority of Mr Cvetkovic's cabinet. I think we owe each other that much. We're talking here about a much more serious question than we can think about if we analyze everything that was said in previous discussions. For us, the essence of this debate is, in fact, the search for an answer that will establish the necessary balance in our society, a balance that rests in democratic communities on absolute equality between executive, legislative and judicial authorities. At this point, the executive and legislative authorities show the ambition of reforming the judicial authority, and that, in doing so, we cannot say for ourselves that we have previously changed ourselves. If we agree, and I think that we will easily agree on negative assessments of the effects of the judicial authority, the results of the judicial authority, then we must look for much more responsibility among ourselves than among the judges we are talking about at this point. It is true that we have a united discussion of three laws, the law on the regulation of courts, the law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors and the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements, and then two more joint discussions on the remaining laws of the set of judicial laws. What Parliament cannot avoid is a matter of political responsibility for the state of the country, political responsibility for the fact that our judicial authority is humiliated and destroyed and political responsibility for the fact that we intend to change everything around ourselves, and yes, we are not ready to change ourselves. This is a problem that we recognize in the background of this judicial reform, a problem that is not solved by the laws offered, although we see a lot of quality in them. I think the idea that the government was on when it entered this debate was, in fact, incomplete and that it was doomed to failure, first of all, because of the fact that those anomalies that brought the judiciary into such a devastating position were not removed. What are the two grounds for this reform initiative? One is a constitutional right which is too elastic, a constitutional right that is not clearly stated in the Constitution itself, which is why we have criticised and against it, and the other is what we cannot ignore, and these are the needs of life. Because if we want to improve our relationship in our society, then it's practically impossible with this kind of justice and that's in itself a fact. The second question is that we believe that politics is responsible for the chaos in the judiciary much more than just the judiciary, but let's say that life tells us to start reforming our judicial authority at this point. What is the problem with this reform? The problem is that one branch of government cannot be reformed without the parallel changes of the other two, which then make our society completely differently organised and allow for the realisation of those jobs that made us enter into reforms. We also think that the draft law on the regulation of courts, and the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and prosecutors and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements, all three laws have advantages and lacks. What we see as an advantage is, in fact, an attempt to solve problems arising from the fact that our judicial authority is too far away from life and that it is unable to absorb everything that everyday life faces. As far as the problem is concerned, the problems arise, first of all, from the fact that the situation in society and all responsibility is being transferred to the judicial authority, while ignoring the fact that all of this is the responsibility of a single branch of government who has always wondered about everything in Serbia, that is executive authority, that is, the Government. First, second, third and this present or previous one, all of them must take responsibility for the situation in which our society is located. And if they don't have the readiness for such a thing, then these reforms will be unfinished work. If we are talking about the draft law governing courts, we are not looking at this law exclusively from the angle of an adequate response to the problems that exist, let's say, if the issue of efficiency of the work of the courts is analysed. We can agree with the fact that it doesn't make sense that in one court judges have 10-15 cases a day, and that in another court judges don't have a job at all. The reform of the judicial authority is seen as part of the comprehensive reforms of our society. If we view them as part of these reforms, then we cannot talk about a serious local self-government that is deficiting and that has no possibility of developing in parallel and working at its level with the judicial branch of power. That's a big problem. The tradition of local self-government in Serbia exists, as incredible as it seems to us is remarkable, and we have to respect it. We began to question the local self-government Act on local elections, which organised the 2004 elections. In the meantime, we have made the situation worse by amending and supplementing the Law, which was carried out last year, so that we from the traditional local self-government, which rested on the board as the elected representative of citizens, have come to a model of local self-government that is alienated from the society it deals with and are now further threatening it through the disabling of joint work with other branches of government without which local self-government cannot effectively develop. So we had 138 municipal courts. Now we will have, under this new law, 34 basic courts and the rest will be judicial units, changing their name to the basic court. For us, this principle of efficiency is not good enough for such radical changes. If we analyze the state of our local self-government, if you look at that Serbia of ours, then you'll see how unthinked that level of government is at all. We choose the councilmen who are extras in every municipality. Elections were held two days ago in four municipalities in Serbia, which are the re-elections in the municipalities of Prepolje, Književac, Ruma and Vrnjačka Banja. One of the questions in the campaign was – and what, in fact, can these people do specifically for the citizens who choose them? It is very far away from Belgrade, and practically every solution to the problem that locals are looking for on this global, at that republican level. If we look at these examples, then we'll see that the cities are being moved by electricity distributions, tax administrations, and now the courts are being moved, i.e. They're transformed into judicial units. We define our community to that level that it, in practice, loses all meaning. That's what we have to think about. It's just amazing that we don't respect the tradition we can talk about through our amendments. In this country, which has made herself so self-sufficient, we have 250-year-old courts. We now impose these courts on the status of a judicial unit, respecting, allegedly, the principles of efficiency and not finding, in some other way, that the judges who are delegated to those courts should be transferred to other courts unless they have no business in those courts. We think it was a more logical solution. Objectively, adapt to the needs of the court and the number of judges, and respect the need for local self-government to have a basis in the presence of both the judicial authority at its level. As for our reactions, the issue of appeals courts is very serious. We have proposed by amendment to raise the number of appeals courts from four to five, because the essence of these reforms is to be accepted in society, not to be called you, Madam Minister, and LDP, but to be accepted in society. I guarantee you that no citizens of Novi Pazar will have any understanding for judicial reform, for a legislative reform of the judicial authority that makes it more effective by establishing an appeal court in Belgrade, and then someone from Novi Pazar comes to Belgrade to file a complaint or to get a solution to the problem opened at the level of the Novi Pazar municipality. We've got four appeals, and we're introducing another one. That's a serious problem. As for language, we don't understand it very well. We've been transformed into commercial courts. Now we're going back from trade to business. We had the Supreme Court for 60 years in this country, so we transformed it into a cassation that didn't live, and now we're establishing the Supreme Cassation. If we are referring to the Constitution, then you are only giving an additional argument to our criticism of this Constitution, because the Constitution cannot be the opposite of life in this country. People can't walk around Serbia with law in their pockets so they know which court to complain about. That's why we point to the problems of this reform, because tomorrow someone will agree with what we're talking about today, realizing that something is wrong, but, in doing so, by relying on laws. We are now calling for a constitution adopted two years ago, realizing that this constitutional solution is bad, but what to do. Let's get back to the point of this question. It is impossible to reform the judicial branch of government without reforming legislative and executive. If we're talking about the re-election principle, we absolutely support it. We absolutely support the re-election principle of judges and this was one of the foundations on which the LDP and DS agreement was made, under which LDP took over the obligation to provide support and take responsibility for the situation in Belgrade, to support the DS and SPS coalition, the re-election of judges. We disagree, although we have an understanding of the situation the judges are in. We do not agree with the argument of the Association of Judges of Serbia, which now threatens to exclude judges who are acting under these laws, without in any way reacting when it has to react, given that there has been a dramatic politicalisation of our judicial authority in the past, which cannot be depolitised without the willingness of politics to do so itself. We are in advance showing willingness to take responsibility for such a process. We show our willingness to take responsibility, where we also do not give up our ambition to re-election, which is another name for lustration, to be a rule for all other segments of our public life, and not ultimately to lustrate the judges, because the re-election story is, in fact, a confirmation of our insistence on lustration, so that the re-election of judges is done, and that everyone else in the meantime becomes European politicians, European journalists, part of European public opinion in this society, regardless of their past. Perhaps even judges, whose choice we will now think about, would be willing to serve new bosses, not accept new values. That's what this is about. So if we are talking about the Law on Court Order, a serious objection, and we cannot support that law, the principle of efficiency must be respected in some other way. The local self-government is so compromised at this point, the seizure and dislocating of the judicial authority from its midst is completely unthinkable, absolutely. It's what anyone who deals with politics, by traveling through Serbia, meets people, can understand, anyone. I'm sure the MPs of the ruling coalition understand that, after all, I've seen both them and their amendments. I think we need to find a common solution, so it would be bad for us to vote on these draft laws – on the regulation of courts and on the seats and areas of courts. You have Gornji Milanovac, you have Cačak, we agree with those two places, courts and municipalities bordering, the court in Gornji Milanovac has a 200-year tradition. We think there's a way to respect it, they're telling us we're "tip without roots." Let's show that there are some basics in this country, germs, some normal democratic society and that we show respect for the institutions that have survived in this chaos and that we can reorganize the courts, improve the efficiency of the courts, but, of course, let's leave the courts in these environments. Those environments without courts lose every sense, no more of that community. If there's no tax administration, if there's no electricity, if there's no court, then what makes it a municipality? It's one shell where we jump at each other's throats in every election campaign, fighting for the support of citizens for which we can't do anything, absolutely nothing. That is why we are ready to support judicial reform, but provided that it is accompanied by the reform of the executive, the reform of the legislative authority and that we will finish that job that we have been talking about for so long, the work of decentralisation. We have an understanding for the amendments to the Alliance of Duke Hungarians. Since we are looking at this kind of problem in the same way, and in particular we think it is very dangerous to get the impression that representatives of a national community are reportedly only fighting for their own interests, because in their amendment we recognize the same kind of problem we have seen in the resolution of this law, so we have responded to our amendments. Secondly, the percentage and quota question is absolutely unacceptable. That rule began to be introduced by the Constitution, when you treated Vojvodina with those 7% or 8%, I don't know how much anymore, and now there's a rule of quota that makes it mandatory for a member of the Council to be from Vojvodina. These principles are not principles on which this society can develop normally. If Vojvodina has its specifics, and there is, we have proposed so many times, a basic court is imposed, a senior court is imposed, we have proposed a court that would be responsible for the territory of Vojvodina, which would be part of our judicial authority. We're not for the kind of paralysis that brings us back to the past, because we can't accept models that are more quality than these today, and they were before in the time ahead. Let's be better than the Constitution and the 70s solution, let's try to do it. As far as the proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary is concerned, I've told you what kind of problem there is, he's serious, and we're going to have to talk a lot about it. I think success will be if we all stand behind these laws together. There is no half reform of the judicial authority. And those who do not want, they must be left without arguments, it must be their personal whim and nothing more than that. I'm sorry, but this law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors, most of the MPs here, in fact, are pushing into one party. The MPs here represent the interests of their constituents, and don't forget that, colleagues and colleagues. Here you represent the citizens who voted for you and those who come from Gornji Milanovac and those who come from all other backgrounds, from Backa Topola, right, Judith, they represent their citizens. We can't destroy local self-government by bringing their courts down to judicial units, because there's not as much work in that court as there is in someone else's. Let the number of judges be reduced, let the judges go to those courts where they have to work, we will absolutely support it. We'll absolutely back it up, but the problem with the courts being abolished, it's totally devising local self-government. The issue of re-election, absolute support, we do not agree with the criticisms of the Serbian Society, and the criticisms were delayed, there was insufficient resistance to political pressures in the past, so our judicial authority is to this end politicised, that without politics and cannot be freed and we take responsibility for such a process. We take responsibility for such a process, and what we did between 2000 and 2003 gives us the right to act this way – our relationship with the Constitutional Court, our relationship with the Supreme Court, our relationship with the District Court, our relationship with the Association of Judges of Serbia, with the fact that we now have big problems because we have been talking about the reform of our judicial authority for eight years, and there is no such reform. The Association of Judges of Serbia should also understand this and help resolve the difficult situation in which our judicial authority is located, and we are also asking for help to reform the other two branches of government, which is legislative authority and executive power. A very important question for us is the question of lustration. It cannot be transferred to the back of the Serbian judiciary for everything that has happened in the past, and this is how it is made possible. The Assembly passed the Law in 2003 and, as we insist, that the Parliament that passed the smoking ban law respects its law here in the hallway, so the Assembly must respect the Law it passed in 2003, it is the Law on lustration. If there is no will, let the majority be formed, so let the law be annulled, and while there is a Law on Lustration, we have a problem in answering the judges why they are sanctioned for action during the past, and not sanctioned by all others who have done so together with these judges and who have pressured the judges to commit the acts that we call them to account for today. If we are talking about Europe, then we are talking about European integrations that are free of anything unless the judicial authority is reformed. We provide ideas in order to reform the judiciary. We have submitted amendments, and we will continue our consultations with the government's representatives. There's a big problem around these courts and we can't support it. We have an understanding of the introduction of appeals courts, concerned that society will not accept it, since there are so obvious differences between status in one case and another. That wasn't enough work. We have a particularly big problem with the re-election of judges, or we would like you to provide guarantees here that they will not remain on the judges alone, but will be asked the question of responsibility and others who have destroyed this country. So who made the judges steal the election? Now the judges who stole the election are supposed to respond, and those who forced them to steal, they're the preferred coalition partners of the ruling coalition, and those who declared these illegals a law, they're our public service editors. We don't like it, but we don't think the problem is solved by tolerateing this chaos in the judiciary and supporting re-election of judges, but by opening our announcement and insisting on spreading this process to all the other segments of our society that have to take responsibility for what is happening to the country, so that it doesn't happen again. We commend your efforts in this business, you didn't have much support, the biggest problems were given to you by the judges themselves, and that's what the problem is. The impression is that this is your isolated campaign and that only you are doing it, which is not good, and the particular problem arises from the fact that it is a climatey foundation, this constitutional foundation that you are calling on at the moment, because when the Constitution was being adopted, it was not about reforming the country, it was about preserving and maintaining the status quo. That's why today we have so much difficulty trying to change these relationships. I think our MP group with amendments will bring the necessary quality, the minimum quality needed for the adoption of these laws... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... but in advance, I call on all colleagues to be much less MPs of the ruling coalition or opposition parties, especially when it comes to this law on the seats and areas of the courts. It's a law that destroys local self-government and completely delegitizes us in any other election campaign. We can't support that law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6796	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6797	It would be said that the same target, the same distance, has only changed a little order of moves, and what someone may have ordered to do is to be done or, to be more precise, to end something that was started earlier. However, the central law, all these judicial proposals, the draft law on the regulation of courts, there are final provisions, Article 97 - the day of the application of this law ceases to apply, and you will see that in 2002 it is with numerous amendments and additions to that law, which they had, above all, in order to postpone the application of those provisions on appeals courts. But that's not the only reason it's changed. In the follow-up to the text of this article, of course, the Law on Courts also ceases and the Law on Courts now appears to be the Law of 1991. For the sake of our public, it must be said that, as far as existing courts are concerned, their jurisdiction is practically determined by the Law on Courts of 1991. That law applies day and day. What does that mean? This means that the reform that was allegedly implemented in 2002 was under pressure, because at the time the unique DOS could not function, so one group conditioned the survival of the coalition and the passing of some other laws by adopting this law. I have to tell you this in order to realize that in 2002, too, what we call an appeal court couldn't possibly have been provided for by that law, because simply, this 1990 Constitution didn't foresee it. Now we are going in one completely different direction and you will see these days the focus of this debate on the order of courts, since it is central, is it reduced to the question – is it in my place that it will be a basic court, a senior court, an appeal court, a department, a judicial unit or something else, or is it just going to be a court day? In this regard, all MPs, as children, will play in the first grade of elementary school football, so as the ball on that corner, then the whole department on that corner where the ball is, and so here, as on the serial tape, the MPs of the government and the MPs of the opposition who are going to criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the legislator of this law – for God's sake, how can there be no court in my place anymore, how?- I'm sorry. Everyone in the bar would like to be a little master, not just the affairs of local self-government, but a little executive authority, and a little question about the judicial authority. Of course, Mr. Bosko Ristic will do well in that distribution, as there will be quite a few courts in Nis, so he will have the opportunity to hire a pensioner again to be president of the court. I mean, it's all common knowledge. I'm not saying this to make fun of you. I'm talking about how wrong this concept is. Unlike my predecessors, I have to say that as far as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is concerned – it only regulates the issues of court regulation in a few provisions and asks that as a matter of principle. There is a member who says courts as courts of general and special jurisdiction are being established in the Republic of Serbia. Also, there is a provision that prescribes that the main court in the Republic of Serbia is the Supreme Cassation Court. This should be interpreted more, "The Supreme Cassation Court", as the form of appointing or determining the title of the highest court and nothing else. Why am I saying this? It's for one simple reason, because the bill promoter, and the Society of Judges, and those who allegedly follow the judiciary professionally, well, and those who call on the Venice Commission, although I don't know why you're calling on her, when that Venice Commission doesn't think she's even capable of doing that job, to suggest to someone what needs to be done to fix something. Because if she was so capable, we'd probably get the courts in Western Europe, and there's a variety of these courts present. But to return to our everyday life and our situation. So we have to change the names of the courts, to do the lustration of the judges. So, this government doesn't think that, eventually, it solves a judge who doesn't do business in accordance with the law, is not professional, is not safe. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's the whole operation here. That is why they are invented – basic, higher, and other names are appointed for courts, in order to subjugate the judiciary of the Democratic Party. In a free conversation, I often get the opportunity to hear how it praises certain Democrats – Krasic, you do not expect to succeed in the court dispute, when you know that DS is holding the judiciary? He's been holding him for a long time! He's been holding him for a long time, ever since she started DS with lustration. I'll just remind you that a few years ago when the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia was elected, the DS challenged so far the qualification of one of the proposed candidates that we, at one point, thought that maybe that woman hadn't even finished law school. And after a few years, when the DS and that woman fought, here, we heard from this pay phone that this woman even wrote to the Order how to deliver Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal. And, now, this judge, should be – independent, independent, objective. And for him we should say that he can work in a scale with the Constitution, the law, to apply international standards. Tell me, what is this international standard that the judge is writing the regulation? It doesn't exist! But it's all about you, because when it comes to the current interest you close your eyes, because there's some new common goal, some prey, and you make it very easy to agree on it. What's wrong with what you suggested? It is not good, above all, that the intention, motive and initiative of the promoter does not deserve any appreciation or protection. So there are really low initiatives and motives that are not allowed. Now, this is where you're looking for complicity. It is said that the judiciary is ineffective. A few years ago, procedural laws were changed. The objective of changing these rules was to make the judiciary effective. Just to remind you, when a new Law on the Procedural Procedure was passed, it should be two, possibly three hearings to end, a year, up to a year and a half to continue this first-degree procedure and the end. I think I've got a pretty good interpretation of the explanation when we're making these regulations. It was similar with the Code of Criminal Procedure – the hour of work will be over. And then we hear that even under these new rules in criminal proceedings, crimes that are being prosecuted are being prosecuted by official duty and are becoming obsolete in the drawers of judges. So it's not the organisation and arrangement of the judiciary that's the problem, it's the one that has the domination of the judiciary and the judges. Turn – turn around, we're coming back to the yellow companies, because it's generating disputes, it's deciding how these disputes are going to settle, how they're going to go, who's going to grow old, who won't grow old. Because it's obvious that the judiciary is in their hands as a means of pressure and coercion for political life to take place, exactly as they want it to be. The second reason for this change is, among other things, that certain courts are not evenly burdened. The judges who work in urban areas have a few dozen cases over the month, and those judges who work in municipal courts in a smaller place have several cases during the month, the salary is about the same, so some injustice should be corrected. There is nothing to correct the injustice of living in Belgrade and in a difficult material situation, and it goes better than the one living in Bosilegrad and living in an extremely good position for the BiH opportunities – e, this injustice will not correct the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The existing network, the existing organization needs to change, it has to change. Apparently, you need to lower your savings, to achieve savings. How? If a municipal court is shut down, then it becomes a department, then there won't be a president of the court, there won't be a secretary, and there'll probably be some other people in the office who can run the books, not those who work and who have some office chief status, etc. Perhaps savings will be made by reducing the official car of such a president of the court, given that the court is being shut down in that place, some savings are likely to be made. Will those savings be in favour of the efficiency of the judiciary or will they be at risk? Knowing our conditions, we can all say right away that it will be at the expense of our judiciary. I am taking the opportunity to point out to the public of the Republic of Serbia that the existing provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also provide opportunities for a completely different concept of the Law on the Regulation of Courts does not mean that the provisions on courts of special jurisdiction should not be respected. If in this concept, which I am presenting, there is no place for courts of special jurisdiction, as specifically appointed courts, you should not interpret it as a non-compliance of the concept with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because you and the Government and institutions also have a number of solutions that differ from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and even differ from clear provisions and orders from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If we want to achieve a kind of unity and quality in the judiciary, then we should have such organised courts as first-degree municipal courts – in some things, the first-degree court may also be a district court, with special departments, such as the Department of Economic Disputes, and that the summit is only the Supreme Casation Court. There, we have to accept this termology. Why this is necessary, because through the Supreme Cassation Court, complete case-law is united which does not allow or prevents the very free interpretation of the same member depending on whether it applies the first degree or second degree court. Of course, administrative disputes – they could, in good faith, in the first degree, judge district courts, of course, continue to be the Supreme Court of those administrative disputes where they challenge or initiate proceedings against acts of the republican authorities. That organization can liven up. So, we don't need appeals courts, as special appeal courts, we don't need special criminal courts either; a mistrial can be any municipal court. After all, the question is whether our Law on Infringements remains consistent, given that the possibility of conducting a misdemeanor procedure, in addition to criminal courts, has the authorities of the administration. Although, they are specific, but the authorities of the administration. Just to remember, a few years ago, we passed the Law of Infractions, transferred it to the court's jurisdiction to prosecute the offenses, only because of the fact that there may be a prison sentence in the offences, and in order to punish someone, it has to be only a court, it can't be an authority for violations or some special authority of the administration. So, this simple, simple organisation, available to every citizen in the Republic of Serbia, very simple, in each of these courts you can have very specialised departments for certain types of disputes, and so solves this problem of efficiency, the availability of courts to citizens and one consistent organisation – it is always known that the first-degree court is a municipal court, above it goes the district court, in the third degree appears the Supreme Court. Everything can be done in departments and there's no problem. But this government doesn't want it. They have to satisfy some appetites. Now this simple organisation, which I briefly presented, which is not prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic, and this organisation is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the proposings are now raising it to some great science. Just so the citizens of Serbia see what the organisation will look like. There will be 45 new criminal courts, with 99 departments; there will be 34 basic courts with 98 judicial units, so there will be, 34, basic public prosecutors; there will be 26 senior courts, of which 15 will have jurisdiction for the territory of two basic courts; there will be 16 commercial courts and one judicial unit; there will be four appeals courts, in order to meet these needs, once announced regionalisation of the Republic of Serbia and to satisfy the appetites of some other future secessionists; there will be one higher criminal court with three departments; there will be one administrative court with three departments and someone will say – see, the Republic of Serbia has raised its foot, just as when horses are sweating, it has been given an organisation that can match some organisation in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands. And is that going to work? It won't work, not because the SRS doesn't want it to work. Well, we also told you in 2002 that the law on the regulation of courts won't work, so after six months you've asked for amendments and additions to that law. With 126 votes today in Serbia, you can do anything and do anything, go ruin everything, and then report as rescuers. Just to remind the public, when these 'yellow's' came to power on January 25, 2001, they first destroyed the Constitutional Court; it didn't work for us at all. The question is, does the Constitutional Court still work for us today? Appealal – none exist. In what conditions does the Supreme Court work? Desperate, desperate! Any noise can criticise Serbia's Supreme Court judge, any lawyer, every lawyer, every lawyer. Natasa Kandic, who represents the damaged in the court proceedings, although they say the sociologist is leading that Dragoljub, so acting as a team for representing the damaged. Anyone can attack a judge with us. And I'm sorry that some judges are on trial today, but what do we do? We must respect the Constitution and the law. There's so many of them who don't deserve to go to court and perform court duty, but that's no reason to throw it out in a bad way, through re-election. If it does not comply with the law of the prescribed obligation, it does not work in quality, initiate the discharge procedure and take into account the individualization of the responsibility of the particular judge, and not the block. I'm just surprised that you could find a partner in the SPS who's in the government for this concept of judicial law. If you found a partner for this concept, well, then the situation is extremely, extremely serious. We will not support this, we have submitted a number of amendments to explain some of our views. We have no intention of presenting this concept to you anymore, because you can't even think about this concept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6798	The People's MP Vlatko Ratkovic has the word, and then the National MP Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6799	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Madam Justice Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable citizens, I must express one great pleasure, as a Republic MP, that there is an important set of laws in front of us, important for the state, important for society and important for all our citizens, in the first place. They repeat what the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Malovic, has already said in his presentation, which is that the normative framework for the adoption of these laws, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the constitutional law, the Order of the Venice Commission and all that could have been defined and crystallised in the public debate that preceded the adoption of these laws. But what is more important than all of this is the need for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the need for our society to implement a comprehensive reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. The comprehensive reform of the judiciary implies the adoption and adoption of these legal projects that are now ahead of us. It implies both the novelty and the adoption of some other laws, such as, the law on litigation, the law on criminal proceedings, the criminal code, it is necessary to pass a law on notaries, as all countries have done in the environment, the new law on lawyers, etc. The Trialistic principle of dividing the power into legislative, executive and judicial, we will consistently implement through a set of these laws, namely to define the position of an independent judicial authority, firstly through the Law on Court Order, and later on through the Law on Judges, etc. The availability of justice and the rule of law must be a top political ideal for all parliamentary groups, all political parties, and it is certain that this political ideal cannot be achieved by any law, not by any set of laws, but by one hard work, first of all, through this high house where the rules we adopt, which are often abstract, metaphysically, so to say, for the citizens, but judges and courts are there, in particular, applying the laws that we make. Our road map to the EU also implies the adoption of these important laws that involve judicial reform, effective justice, quality judges, judges who are educated, not only in formal terms, which have only formal knowledge, so, completed law school, passed a judicial exam, etc. We as a dynamic society, as one of the respected predecessors has said today, must change all of us, and Parliament, and the government and the whole society, but must change both mentally and professionally and bearers of judicial functions. As a result, these laws, the Law on Court Orders, the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts, as well as all these other laws found at the session of this Parliament, are important. So far, we have to admit that anachron, they've been overcome and they're one of the reasons for our inefficient judiciary. The inertness that we have in this system of government is the consequence, first of all, of these existing legal solutions, and on the other hand, is the consequence of one irresponsible approach to judicial function by a minority that exists in a judicial system, i.e. applicants of judicial functions. The principle of legality must be a fundamental top principle that implies that courts can be established and abolished only by law, so no ad hoc courts can be established, no court-broken, and that is what is not disputed and what is resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The independence of the judicial authority implies that no one can have any influence on the court, no politics, no tycoons, no media. In decades behind us, all of us, as well as Serbian citizens, have been under the influence of both politics and certain economic structures, local structures, and of course the media. All of this must be eliminated in order to have the judicial system that exists in the countries of developed democracies, in EU countries. I'm not going into a deeper legal analysis. I would like to point out in the first place, and in the first place I address the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that all MPs in this high house have analysed in detail all the provisions of the law and will participate actively in the debate, but it is important to point out that we have these laws of general and special jurisdiction. The courts of general jurisdiction, these are basic courts, senior courts and appeals courts. Instead of municipal courts, we'll have basic courts. The termological difference here is also needed, the first thing that basic courts according to the definition and determination of real jurisdiction will cover the territory of several municipalities, and the second reason that I don't think the minister has even presented is that the term'municipality' is anachron itself, and that is something that associates with some local government, some local structures in the municipality that can affect the work of courts. Also, this law establishes more courts and appeals courts. The highest court in the Republic of Serbia will be the Supreme Cassation Court to decide on emergency legal medicines. The courts of the Republic's rank, next to the Supreme Cassation Court, are also the Commercial Court of Appeals and the Supreme Criminal Court, as well as the Administrative Court, so are the courts established for the territory of the entire Republic. As for jurisdiction, the actual jurisdiction of these courts, we have here significant changes in relation to the solutions so far. Basic courts will be tried in criminal matters where a sentence for a crime is threatened for up to 10 years, and in civil matters, or civil cases where a review cannot be declared. It is true, as counterpart Palalic said, that the audit value according to the CAP is 500 thousand dinars and this requires the need to amend the Law on Prosecution. I believe that this will follow either the government's or the MP's initiative, so the amendments to the Law on Prosecution are precisely for the reasons of the honourable colleague. Higher courts under the proposal of this law will decide in the first instance in civil law disputes where the revision is possible as an emergency legal remedy and will retain certain jurisdiction over the second-degree trial. They will decide in the first place on complaints about decisions of the basic courts only in a shortened criminal procedure, in detention cases, in disputes of small value as in executive and non-partisan proceedings, so that the higher courts will be relaxed in relation to decision-making in the second degree compared to the solutions we have so far in the existing laws. This law also provides for the establishment of appeals courts to decide on complaints of decisions of senior and basic courts, so they will decide on regular legal remedies. Appeal courts are foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, they exist, exist in all countries, in most EU countries and as in most of the countries in the environment, both those who have already become EU members and those who are on the verge of joining the EU. Basic senior courts will be first-degree courts with mutually divided jurisdiction, while the Court of Appeal will decide on regular legal remedies, except in these cases that I have already stated here. What is also the quality of this law is the specialisation of courts and efficiency of proceedings. Therefore, the availability of justice and the principle of justice cannot be for citizens an abstract and metaphysical form, the availability of justice means that a citizen as a party to a litigation procedure, for example, cannot lead a dispute for 10 years for compensation of damages, or that in an out-of-pared procedure to regulate the border procedure is conducted for three years. This requires specialization of judges, and this specialization cannot be limited to seminars in Vrnjačka Banja or in Kopalnik or Budva. Judges must, in addition to this general knowledge that they are following the overall legislation, even those which do not specifically concern their border jurisdiction, so that the judge of civilians should have basic knowledge in the area of criminal law, must have knowledge of trade law, of the rights of trade societies, or of commercial law, of administrative law, as well. The fellow lawyers sitting here in the Assembly know very well that we often meet with, unfortunately, the ignorance and indifference of judges in solving, or performing their duties, solving cases, and therefore a specialization is necessary, which is why certain norms of these laws are foreseen. I'll say a few words about the Supreme Cassation Court. Therefore, it is a court that decides on emergency legal medicines declared to the decisions of the courts of the Republic of Serbia and other matters by a certain law. The court will also decide on the conflict of jurisdiction and what is also important will establish principles of law for the sake of uniform judicial application of law. The internal arrangement is something that regulates this law and leaves it further in the regulatory Rules of Procedure for the purposes of working out these norms, and I wouldn't particularly stick around. I will only be apostrophe of the provisions of this law, which concern judicial staff, a very important segment in the work of judges and in the work of judges at all. Therefore, this law provides for the existence of judicial assistants, judicial trainees, as well as civil servants and deputies, who work in administrative and other affairs. I'll remind you of an interesting example, one comparative, that the Republic of Serbia with seven and a half or eight million inhabitants has two thousand judges, and that, for example, the Kingdom of Spain has two thousand judges with 40 million inhabitants. We will admit that the degree of protection of the subjective rights of citizens and residents of Spain, in relation to the degree of protection of the subjective rights of Serbian citizens, is much higher and that is one of the reasons why our judges have to perfect themselves, and I am putting this in the context of the Serbia court in the first place. One new quality given by this legislative project is the position of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is also a constitutional category. The much greater powers of this authority will contribute to the principle of judicial independence and the choice of members of the High Council of the judiciary, their position, particularly the judiciary budget and the position of the High Council of the judiciary in relation to the money at its disposal. So there is no independence of any institution if it has no budget and no money. The law here gives a compromise solution – that, therefore, proposals for the budget, which will be adopted by the National Assembly, gives the High Council of the judiciary for current affairs, while capital investment in courts, means, in the buildings of the courts, it will remain in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, but only until 1 January 2011, when the Supreme Council of the judiciary will take over this part of the budgetary initiative and the budget. The biggest controversy in this agenda has sparked a bill on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, and here I must draw attention to that the principle of availability of justice to citizens will not be affected by the formation of basic courts and judicial units. So citizens will continue to exercise their subjective rights in primary units. Where there are no basic courts, there will be submissions, lawsuits, complaints, regular and extraordinary legal remedies, there will verify documents, contracts, wills, etc. That's where they'll be tried. That's where the buildings are, those jobs that that court has been doing so far. We need to reconcile two principles here. This is the principle of efficiency, and I believe that the Government, that is, when drawing up the draft of this law, has laid down a sufficient number of criteria for determining the network of courts, i.e. basic courts and judicial units. The second principle is the principle I was talking about, which is the availability of justice and justice to citizens as parties. Further provisions refer to the number of courts, etc. I will not enter any specific analysis of this case, but I would like to repeat that citizens in those environments where municipal courts will no longer exist but the judicial units of the basic courts will continue to exercise their subjective rights. The judges will be elected for the court, not the judicial unit, and thus achieves a more objective work of the court. This eliminates everything my predecessors talked about today, so the possibility of influence on the work of courts by local authorities, by tycoons, by various influential lobby groups etc. It's just that when a judge from another community gets the case as a judge of the basic court, and he gets the case in a court unit, he's going to try it more impartially and objectively than a judge living in a small community and who knows all the neighbors and citizens from another street, someone's his cousin, someone's his friend, someone's his godfather. These two principles can be brought together into one harmony, the principle of territorial organisation, that is, rationalisation and this principle of availability of justice. It is therefore important for citizens to know that they will continue to exercise their rights in their places where they have so far had municipal courts. It is important that we adopt this set of laws, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia. It is important that we carry out a comprehensive reform of the judiciary. It is an imperative that has been put before us by the citizens, before all of us, before the parliamentary majority and before the MPs of the opposition parties. We expect constructive criticism from opposition groups. The law will be accepted in principle. We will discuss all amendments in detail, and I believe that both Ministers and representatives of the ministry, of course, and MPs of the ruling coalition, or parliamentary majority, will study each amendment in detail and if we assess that it gives new quality to this law, we will accept it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6800	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all I wanted to do was remove a little misunderstanding. I report in accordance with Article 23. My decision to act on my own in the future as an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia has no other motive than to affirm our convictions and principles, our ideas and attitudes, our programme, to clearly profile our identity, for the simple reason that we are on our way back to the European People's Party as an association of conservative democratic people's parties, as the largest group in the European Parliament. We're a party of the right center and the unenlightened right. A small number of such parties exist in Serbia today. Some are declared right, but the clock cheers on the Kremlin and it's objectively not right, but it doesn't matter. So there are no misunderstandings with our LDP friends and colleagues, for which we are bound by the same political values, the same goals, long-term co-operation and the fight for a democratic and European Serbia. I hope that co-operation continues in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6802	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. After him, the word is Branko Ruzic. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6803	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have a set of judicial laws, a total of seven laws in the area of justice. When, in recent weeks, on behalf of the government, explained the need to pass these new laws, it was always said that these new judicial laws should be passed for three reasons. The first, which is necessary to reform the judicial system in Serbia. Second, the adoption of this set of judicial laws is a necessary prerequisite for us to be candidates for entry into the European Union. Third, that this reform of the judiciary is the largest since 1946. That's all true. The SVM agrees that the justice system needs to be rationalised and reformed. We also agree with the fact that this is a prerequisite for becoming candidates for entry into the European Union, which is target number one and for SVM. As for such reforms, it has not been since 1946 in Serbia, it is a fact. Facts aren't discussed. However, for SVM, six of the seven laws proposed by the judiciary are acceptable. One law for us is not acceptable, it is a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. We have two groups of reasons why we cannot in the original form support the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. There's a formal and essential reason. As for formal reasons, you all know very well that there have been several versions of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors in recent weeks, in recent months. However, this latest version of the bill was put on the Justice Ministry's website on October 28th and the draft law was adopted on October 30th at the government. For just two days, the political and professional public had the opportunity to make their estimates that the latest version of the draft law, and this latest version of the bill is very different from the previous versions of the bill. If coalition partners, with whom we make this government together, think of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians as coalition partners, it is inadmissible that there has been no consultation on the proposed laws at all. Especially when we know that such reforms have not been in place since 1946, and especially when we know that the subject of the judiciary is a huge issue in every country, which must be discussed among coalition partners and representatives of the professional public. That's not what happened. And let me repeat once again that this is inadmissible, that one such law is passed in this way, without consulting coalition partners. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has never been a party that is too much about form, which is easily offended and therefore this formal reason would not yet be enough for us to vote against this Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. There is a fundamental reason that is much more important, which is why we cannot support this bill in this form. We also told representatives of the ministry as soon as the bill arrived in the procedure of the National Assembly. Mr Laszlo Varga, a member of the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration, also spoke of these essential reasons. When the government began to draft these laws, in particular the bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, rationalisation was said to be necessary. We agree that rationalization is necessary, but rationalization, above all, is also necessary, in addition to being economical, should be rational. We can't support a rationalization that isn't rational, and this way of rationalization isn't founded at all and not rational. It is not rational because it has been said to take care of historical facts, geographical facts, to take care of the use of official languages in court proceedings, to make sure that justice is available to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It was said that all citizens can adequately consume judicial services, and according to the proposed draft, now the bill, unfortunately, that is not true and would not happen. That is why we have submitted three amendments on behalf of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians. In fact, we have submitted more amendments, but we can group these amendments into three continents. We have submitted several amendments because we considered it rational that what we propose for the basic courts is also proposed for the criminal courts, and that this should also be proposed for the public prosecutors. That is why we have submitted several amendments, but it all comes down to the following – we have suggested that it be preserved, as a court of its own, the basic court in Backo Topoli, which would be responsible for the territory of the municipalities of Backo Topola and Mali Ijoš. The second amendment refers to the preservation of, as a stand-alone court, the basic court in Senta, which would be responsible for the territory of the municipalities of Novi Knezevic, Kanjiža, Ada, Choka. We have proposed the third amendment that we propose to preserve the court in Vienna, which would be responsible for the territory of the municipalities of Žablj, Srbobran, Temerin and Novi Becej. We don't think we're disrupting this whole system. the rationalisation of the network of courts, and, on the other hand, the adoption of these amendments would mean the implementation of those principles which the representatives of the government spoke of in the previous weeks, which is, in fact, the availability of justice and that is the possibility of the consumption of judicial authorities services at an adequate level. If you look at these criteria that government representatives have spoken about, then you can conclude that, even in the case of a basic court in Vienna and in the case of a basic court in Backo Topoli, and also in the case of a basic court in Senta, there is a geographical justification for the existence of these courts as independent courts, as well as historical justification, since these courts exist for 150, 200 years. So they have a tradition, and on the third hand, the preservation of these courts is necessary in order to enable the official use of the language of national minorities in court proceedings. I know that the representatives of the government and the Department of Justice are in an extremely difficult situation. They are in an extremely difficult situation because if these amendments are adopted, they will all demand, on this side and on the other hand, that their amendments be adopted and that some other courts be established, that some courts be preserved. I would like to point out this - we did not suggest the survival of courts in those places or from the territories from which we came. We have made this proposal because we consider it rational, that it does not disrupt the entire system and that it is necessary for justice to be available to everyone. We believe it is necessary that the languages of the national minorities continue to be used in court proceedings. You know very well that it is not the same to use the language of a national minority in court proceedings and it is not the same to use the language of a national minority through a court interpreter. That's two different things, and that's why we think it's necessary to preserve these courts. It is not clear to me how it is possible for MPs on the other side to think that it is normal that in the midst of the AP Vojvodina, there is no single court. I cannot understand how it is possible for MPs from the ruling coalition to consider it normal for the Vojvodina court to exist only in Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor, Subotics, Kickindi, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Vrsac and Pancheva. If you look, Sombor is a municipality bordering Croatia. Subotica is a municipality bordering Hungary. Vršac and Panchevo are in southern Buck, near the border with Romania. It's the same case in Central Banat, both with Kickinda and Zrenjanin. And we also have a court in Novi Sad, which is perfectly normal, so we're not going to have to cancel the court in Novi Sad. If you look at the geographic map, you can see that in the middle of Vojvodina there is no court of its own, and that's inadmissible. It is unacceptable that out of 34 courts, as many as would survive in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there are only eight independent courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This did not take into account the proportion, how many citizens there are of Vojvodina and did not care that Serbia, especially Vojvodina, is a multiethnic region, the province within the Republic of Serbia and that this multiethnicity must be taken into account. This should not only be talked about as a wealth of Serbia, which is a fact, but should also be done for the sake of that multiethnicity being preserved for centuries to come. For these reasons, the proposed law can only be supported in the event that these amendments are adopted regarding the court in Vienna, the court in Senta and the court in Backo Topoli. Once again, I would like to underline that, according to us, these amendments are justified, so that these amendments do not come out of those frameworks that have been defined by the proposal of the original law. That's what I was talking about at the press conference on Friday, and I want to say here that we in the original form of this law can't support it. The ruling coalition, the ruling coalition parties, our partners and government should not see it as a threat to SVM, but you should experience, ladies and gentlemen on this side, these efforts, as efforts in the interest of those citizens whose interests we represent. We wouldn't want to go back to our midst and say, ladies and gentlemen, we didn't fight for a court in Sainta, ladies and gentlemen and citizens, we didn't fight for a court in Vienna or Backo Topoli. We don't want that. We also fought, as these amendments envision the survival of the court in Ada, as a court unit in Sainta, the survival of the court in Canjiza, as court units of the court, also in Sainta and several other judicial units, for example, in Novi Knezevic, Novi Becej, Srbobran and Temerin. If you look, in all these places, the Hungarians do not make up the majority, neither absolute nor relative. We are not only fighting for the interests of our countrymen, we are fighting for the interests of all citizens of these municipalities. The interest of all these citizens is certainly not that the court is abolished and it is not that a court that has been in place for 200 years in court. For this reason, we cannot support this law in the proposed form. Negotiations with Ministry representatives are under way and I hope that together we will find a solution to adopt these amendments and allow SVMs to clear their consciences and calm souls to vote in favour of the proposed law. As for the other proposals in a set of judicial laws, those for SVM are absolutely not controversial and we will certainly vote for the other proposals of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6804	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6805	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use this time in the best way to look back at a whole set of these judicial laws, if you'll allow me to do so. Given that there are a lot of contradictions in both the professional and the general public of Serbia that need to be explained, I am sure that in this debate, which is likely to take place, these explanations will be followed, above all, by the Registrar, but also by all those who want these judicial laws to be passed and put into the reform that we must implement as a state. The legislators had a difficult task to draft laws governing the organisation of the judiciary to ensure real independence and independence of courts and the real independence of the public prosecutor's office, as well as the personal independence of judges and the personal independence of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. The task itself and the weight of the task came from the contents of the 2006 Constitution, which, instead of general principles, had detailed the internal and external arrangements of courts, the public prosecutor's office, the way and the election of the president of the courts and public prosecutors, the choice of the judge and the deputy public prosecutors, as well as the authority of the individual authorities in relation to the public prosecutor's office, and all of this in a relatively dissuasive manner. In other words, the constitution envisioned the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the prosecution, but the model of the election of the president of the courts, the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as the model of proposing the election of public prosecutors and members of the State Council of Prosecutors, in some ways, made it difficult to make the independence of the judiciary and the High Council of the Judiciary and the independence of the public prosecutors, the deputy public prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors. In this regard, it should be said that the proposed laws correct the Constitution to a good extent, which is, above all, the consequence of the Ministry of Justice's readiness to accept one part of the advice of the professional public, and hence the conclusion that these laws correct the Constitution, for the simple reason that two new bodies are introduced into the constitutional system by this constitutional document – the High Council of the judiciary and the State Great Prosecutors. These are bodies with broad powers in relation to the judiciary and the prosecution. The High Council of the Judiciary elects judges to serve as judges, determines the reasons for their resolution, and proposes to the National Assembly the presidents of judges and judges who are first elected to office. The state's major prosecutors, on the other hand, have the authority to elect deputy prosecutors, who are elected on a permanent basis, and to propose deputy public prosecutors, who are first elected to office. On that account, Article 165. The constitution that speaks of the state council's position, the truth, in general, determines a certain power of the Council over public prosecutors, by formulating that this authority is tasked with ensuring and ensuring the independence of public prosecutors. The constitution also determines the composition of these authorities by making most of the members election members, those are judges in the High Court, i.e. public prosecutors and deputy prosecutors in the State Council of Prosecutors. The problem is that the judges, or prosecutors and deputies who enter this body, as the Constitution says, are not elected by the judges, or prosecutors and deputies themselves, but by this home, or the National Assembly, according to the constitutional proposal. This is how the idea of judicial, or prosecutorial councils is played, which rests on the principle that most members are elected by the professional representatives themselves in these councils. Essentially, the High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors are only by the name of the judicial and prosecutor's authorities, in line with the letter of the Constitution, because although in these bodies, the judges and prosecutors sit in the large numbers, because of their way of choice is basically, practically, maltene, the bodies of the National Assembly. The proposed laws, as far as possible, remove this constitutional contradiction and the draft laws on the Supreme Council of the judiciary and on the State Council of Prosecutors, stipulate that candidates from the judge and prosecutor's office who have received the most votes in the elections within the judiciary and the prosecutor's office are to be proposed for election members of these bodies. More specifically, the National Assembly will declare candidates who have received the trust of their colleagues to do affairs in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors, on their behalf. As it is said, it removes the contradiction in the character of these bodies and their legal nature in the face of their task, i.e. The High Judicial Council and the State Major Prosecutors become, at least one part, judicial authorities, or prosecutorial self-government. I will also list some other solutions that point to the legislator's intention to amend the Constitution's laws. For example, the laws define disciplinary procedures, determines the system of disciplinary penalties, and foresees the formation of special disciplinary bodies. A periodic evaluation system is also being introduced, as an institute tasked with establishing rules on the progress of judges and prosecutors. The public prosecutor's law provides that the government proposes a public prosecutor's election on the basis of a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors, therefore, in the mainly political process of electing prosecutors, the state's chief prosecutor is being introduced as an expert body, which, on the basis of professional criteria, sets out the first list of candidates for public prosecutors. Of course, there are solutions we are not satisfied with, to which we have certain objections. For example, the way in which the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is proposed. We believe that when electing the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, members of these bodies should propose themselves judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors. The first composition has an extraordinary task to carry out the general selection of judges and deputy public prosecutors on permanent duty and to propose the election of the president of courts and public prosecutors, i.e. judges and deputy public prosecutors who are first elected to office. Extraordinary tasks require the extraordinary legitimacy of these authorities, so it is quite illogical that election members of the first composition propose the current composition of the High Council of Justice. It would be a better solution if election members of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors were elected in a manner that was defined as a permanent model of the election by the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors' Law. Of course, on the other hand, we also understand the counterargument of the time deficit that this procedure, which is otherwise complex, is implemented into action within a reasonable period of time. The well-intentioned criticism of the proposed network of courts and public prosecutors concerns, above all, the lack of transparency of the procedure that preceded the decision to propose the abolition of certain courts. The law proposed the abolition of some courts and public prosecutors, that the professional public had previously not been sufficiently familiar with the criteria, above all, on the basis of which a decision should be made to reduce the number of courts and prosecutors. The criteria for establishing a new network of judicial institutions can be assumed, but in that case, we have a problem to conclude that criteria have not been applied equally to all, as it is seen, of course, in the proposal for this law. A version of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors provides for a reduction in the number of courts and prosecutors. This version changes the names of courts, so they will now have different names, i.e. basics, and instead of the districts so far, we will have more courts. We are not sure whether the more serious negative consequences will have the idea of creating bulky courts, such as the first basic court in Belgrade, with hundreds of judges or the idea of changing the names of courts, so that new courts are created. When we say the negative consequences, we think, first of all, that it will be necessary to make a new distribution of the case into new courts, therefore, physically, practically. The distribution itself may take months, especially since the new court organisation also involves the physical transfer of individual courts, hence and court files, where an objective risk arises for some files and cases to be lost. In some cases, the new network of courts could mean the initiation of proceedings over and over again, for example, in case the new network of consequences has a change in the composition of the judicial council. Moreover, only the accumulation of courts, in itself, carries the risk of disorganisation and possible collapse of the judicial system in a situation where the judicial administration is not sufficiently elaborated and normised. The abolition of courts and the establishment of judicial departments or judicial authorities may also have other types of negative consequences. In fact, the court in small towns or municipalities is not only an organ of the judicial authority, but also a special local social phenomenon. It's an institution that gathers in these small environments the most respected and educated people. It can be assumed that the departure of judges, highly educated, respected people with stable monthly incomes, would otherwise have a negative impact on the local environment, but I do not feel that this is a particular explanation, that the lawmaker's intensity was not even to be ignored or threatened. Further courts will have consequences for increasing the prosecutor's office. That fact can also have negative consequences for the effectiveness of the work of this body, as the constitution has been defined as a monocrat system of the prosecution's arrangements and that means that in the prosecution, one person is a carrier, a special calling, therefore, a public prosecutor, while everyone else is so-called. instant prosecutors, i.e. persons acting on behalf of the prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor. This type of organisation is a particular problem in prosecutors with a large number of deputies, because when you have 20 or 30 deputies who have the authority to act on behalf of the prosecutor, you have the situation that, on the other hand, the public prosecutor is still the only person responsible for the work of the prosecution, and therefore, for the work of the deputies, although he is not realistically able to gain effective insight into the professionality and security of his deputies. All the reserves presented have been sublimed in amendments submitted by the SPS-JS Group to this set of judicial laws. I express my hope that most of these amendments will be accepted because they qualitatively improve the text of these laws, and thus facilitate the application of these laws if they are adopted. In principle, we, as the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, can provide conditional support for these legal solutions, with the need and the expectation that the Proposer will take to a good extent and take very seriously into consideration those of our amendment which, indeed, have the intensities to improve these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6806	Before we proceed to the debate on the application for word, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in agreement with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: The Parliamentary Group of Minorities, New Serbia, the SPS-JS, LDP, the SRS, DSS and the ZES. The first is the People's MP, Riza Halimi, and after him, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6807	Dear Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have also submitted amendments to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors and I would like to make a few remarks on the proposal, and in general, on the criteria given in this proposal. I will remind you that it was taken as a criterion in the construction of this new network of basic courts, including infringing courts, that a much greater number of judges are acting in cases, thus achieving more objective work of the court and equating judicial practice and avoiding the influence of the local environment on the work of judges, and what should be realised by taking the basic courts into account the wider area, the areas of several so far-called municipal courts. I don't think anyone has anything against the principles of rationalization and efficiency, it should absolutely be made available to these new proposals. Of course, it would have to provide an atmosphere and provide instruments that would allow professionals to work in courts to make more objective solutions that should, above all, protect the general interest and stop the avalanche of a difficult situation in which an individual has the advantage, and recklessly destroys the general interest. I have several examples of very bad practices in the Municipal Court in Presevo and the County Court in Vranje, where sometimes very strange decisions are made. In 2005, we had a hard time, three or four weeks of implementation of the project, which was financed by Norwegians, due to the demands of usurper, because the project was meant to restore certain land that was of general social interest. Imagine, at the usurper initiative, the court adopted a temporary measure and the project of general interest was suspended for about three weeks, so it was necessary to intervene through the government to overcome this situation. Then, we have one, in my opinion, absurd situation to seek compensation from the municipality, through judicial solutions, which is three, four, and many times larger, as compensation for the compensation of citizens, for example, when one local road is done. Now imagine, when a highway is made of state interest, of international interest, there are ten euros in compensation for a square meter, and it is considered expensive, and the issue still has not been resolved. The border crossing, which is of state interest, was reached by a court settlement in 2003 of 10 euros per square place, and from the municipal budget through judicial solutions, the Municipal Court in Presevo and the second-degree court in Vranj, forced payment methods realised amounts that are three or four times higher. It's happening to the government register. We simply had a few examples that we were paying 30 euros per square metre for the local road. 18 years ago, from the time of the one-party system, without any agreement, they entered the church estate, and in that mountain-mounted area of Presheva, they were to build a tank. They made a hole in the area of 150 to 200 square meters. These days we were given a court ruling on the basis of which the costs of investors were transferred to the Presevo municipality, and three million dinars were removed from the municipal budget. Somewhere in some places, a square meter is estimated at 200 euros. Today, they threaten to block the municipal budget and all local institutions in Presevo, one strange decision not only of the Presevo Municipal Court, but also of the County Court in Vranj, and this bill presupposes that if the basic court in Vranj, more judges will be candidates for the award of the case and that there will be fewer opportunities for manipulation, then there will be a fairer trial. This case goes through both first-degree and second-degree court and Presevo municipality is required to allocate about 250,000 euros from the municipal budget, without interest, to 170 square meters of land, though in the centre of Presevo, which was taken through nationalisation in 1958, from the Islamic religious community. If the prosecutor did not know, instead of having the court direct the prosecutor, both the municipal and the second-degrees, in this case the religious community, to exercise its rights through the Law on the Return of Property to the Church and the Religious Communities, they are making a final court decision requiring this astronomical amount to be taken out of the municipal budget. This proposal provides that all municipal courts in the Pcinj County will be in Vranj, that they will work together, so the judges will have any case, therefore, will be more objective judicial proceedings, I ask, well, and so far these judges have tried in the second-degree procedure in Vranj, so that they have made such bad, not unquality, but devastating decisions, in which the general interest is destroyed and destroyed for the account of certain individuals who profited from such judicial decisions. I don't see that this proposal solves the essence of the problem, because this doesn't offer anything more quality again. The second segment, which has already been spoken of by my fellow Members from the Group of Minorities, I see from the report that I may have as a People's MP, that in Subotica, Kanjiža, Senti and other municipalities in Vojvodina, the Constitution and the Law on the Official Use of Language are beginning to apply, and even minorities can conduct the procedure in their own language. I see in those reports that there are 10 cases in the Bosilegrad Municipal Court that the procedure is conducted in Bulgarian, and in other minority languages, it says, there is no such practice because the parties do not ask for it. Now imagine the situation that Hungarians are looking for, Bulgarians are looking for, and I see that Romanians are looking for certain situations – and Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac who make up most of them and not one of them has asked for the process to be conducted in Albanian as well? I also know from my personal experience in 1998 that I was in a position to ask for a procedure in Albanian, but I am not allowed. I was then offered an unprofessional translator, which I refused, and then I led the procedure from beginning to end in Serbian. Now the situation, although few judges, is in Bujanovac of eight judges only one Albanian, in Presevo, of six, is 50-50%, but the judge cannot conduct the proceedings in Albanian and when the party is Albanian, because either a dactyltilographer or a technical person does not know Albanian language. (President: People's Parliament, you have used the time available to your MP's group. All right, let me finish. I think this proposal endangers the constitutional provision, the legal provision that courts also work in minority languages. That's why he needs to be questioned, and as such, of course, I can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6808	The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Madam Minister, respected chairman, a set of laws before us today, New Serbia's MPs will not be able to support, given the way it is foreseen. It may well be imagined all of this, it seems to me that it is not a moment, nor a time, that this kind of reform in the judiciary is being carried out, and without, practically, one basic complaint, which is – a public debate, which has not been properly conducted, which was also warned by the representatives of the judges and, of course, the Society of Judges. An extremely small deadline has been left for the Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts. What is a principled remark is that such a network was not the subject of a public debate, but that the public debate ran with the statement of all relevant judicial institutions. Such a drastic change would have to be followed by an appropriate public debate, which is the main drawback. Madam Minister, I think the big problem is that network of courts, abolishing judicial units, these in small towns like Bruce, Mininica, Raška, Ljig and many others. The big problem is to highlight the revision, so, for example, for the district of the court in Raška – a senior court where it will be tried according to the audit, citizens will have to go 80km from that area, which is unacceptable. I don't know, you're spinning your head, I think so. What about the judges from the judicial units, for example, Raska, Vrnjaka Banja, Mionica? In particular, Raška is 80 kilometers away and now the judges will have to come and judge in such a basic court in the King, and then travel every day for 80 kilometers, which is effective for three or four hours, which will only be spent on the road if they do not live in that city. If they live, it requires huge costs, a absence from the family and a question in such an environment what their work will be like. And then, what I warned you about when we were doing the Anti-Corruption Act and that set of laws before this, we're going to have a situation that exists. And judging by the days, so if you remember, then I said that very interesting flossula from the movie "The Marathons are running an honorary circle", "The cinema is working again," so in Raška, it's going to be decided by the day, and some will say that that day is judging, and it's going to be like in that movie -- "The cinema works again". I don't think it's a good message, it's not a good message for the citizens of Serbia, and for the holders of the judiciary, it's not a good message for the domestic lawyers in those areas either, because you said that in these courts there would be some overtures, that there would be small-value disputes in the days ahead, and I think that for such environments, except for legislative, executive, extremely important and judicial authorities. What's going to be the time? It seems to me that, as with many laws, when it comes to the procedure on 1 January 2010, an urgent delay in the application of such a way will take place. We have such examples with the Civil Service Act, and it will certainly be so with many other laws that this assembly brings back, and precisely for reasons and under the pretext, all because of the white Schengen visa, all this is important because of the rapid entry into the EU and so on. Perhaps in some countries where the speed of arrival of distances is 80 to 100 kilometers 15-20 minutes or an hour, but the current infrastructure in our country is also difficult to respect all that is to be sought. So, I would return, once again, to the fact that maybe the desire for reduced influence on judges in these areas and units, that may be some fact, but it seems to me that if someone wants to influence someone and if someone is willing to accept such a thing, that the distance won't fix something important, they might, even, make it easier, because just when you don't know someone, you'll be able to influence someone in the middle where the judge exists. So, I set an example for Raska. By chance, you will delegate judges to Raska, Vrnjaka Banja, Mionica, Bruce. It seems to me that it will be one, practically, traveling circus that no Serbian will ever have. I think that this will lead to a complete archaic state, where the law will have to be respected and what is particularly important, I would point out, you will certainly, because I am in this area, have a terrible outflow of good judges. A good judge who does his job is certainly not going to allow himself to travel 80-100 kilometers, but, naturally, as you did in 1991, 1992, 1993, not because of this law, but because of inflation, the best bar in the judiciary, and of course for political reasons and pressure, went to law. I think that such legal solutions, some people like some good mothers, family women, who are judges, so they won't, except for those eight hours they have to spend in some 100-mile-long basic court, allow themselves to be out of the family, outside of all those obligations that one mother, and you'll agree with me that an extremely large number of women in the judiciary, will not allow themselves the luxury of living apart from their family or that she can't adequately perform her family function. I think it's hurryed up with all this. It was good for the basic courts to remain municipal courts, this part of the appeals court is basically fine, it's something that dates back to 2001, 2002 and, of course, there are appeals courts everywhere. Of course, but we'll say more about that when we talk about this second set of laws that's ahead of us, you can't single out that someone from the autonomous province has a special privilege in some proposals, because that's certainly not a good way to go. Of course, there is a higher court in Kosovo Mitrovica, and as far as I can see, the cases of municipal courts in Vučitrn, Kosovo Mitrovica and Leposavic are taking over the basic court in the Kingdom. It is not clear to me, although there is a higher court, although it is our desire to be present at KIM, to defend our territory, why the cases from these cities that are in the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija will take over this basic court in the Kingdom. I'll have a lot more to say. New Serbia's MPs will continue the debate in principle in particular, and through the amendments we will try to point out and correct what is not good for sure. So we can't accept such a territorial network of courts, where the basic courts will be removed from the higher courts 100 kilometers and over, and they will judge as special judicial units in some days for trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6810	The word has the People's MP Djordje Milicevic, followed by Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6811	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, Ministers, Mrs Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by adopting a set of judicial laws on which the Republic of Parliament is today starting the debate, it is clear that one EU message on judicial reform in Serbia will be sent. The European Commission's assessment, among other things, says that judicial reform is one of the conditions for Serbia to gain EU membership candidate status in 2009. This finding, of course, raises one logical question on which the representatives of the ministry, we are convinced, give an answer, whether in the area of justice, specifically, because today we are starting a debate on a set of judicial laws, this condition will be adopted and met, when a set of proposed judicial laws is adopted, or whether this is quite enough for the area of justice. On the other hand, of course, the obligation to adopt the proposed laws stems from the Constitution adopted in 2006 and is foreseen for all the laws to enter into force on 1 January 2010. The SPS and JS Parliament Club will support the proposed set of judicial laws, because we support the ultimate goal that we need to achieve by adopting a set of judicial laws, which is, above all, a more modern and efficient judicial system in Serbia and an independent professional judiciary with, to say, full integrity, that is, to restore citizens' trust in the judiciary, that we have a judiciary in which citizens will believe. A new reform of the judiciary, it should be said, depends on the protection of human rights and freedoms, and we want in Serbia in three to four years, by applying these proposed legal solutions, to really have a right and an effective judiciary. The amendments we have made, in agreement with the representatives of the ministry, we want to make an additional contribution to the realization of this objective. We think it is very good that a set of legislative proposals of this importance, here I fully agree with a colleague who just spoke, pass a professional and public debate. We have heard more than once from the ministry's representatives that the texts of the draft law have passed several rounds of consultation, that they have been referred to the comments and suggestions of the ministry in international organisations, after which individual solutions have been considered. Among other things, it could also be heard that all texts were sent to the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission and, of course, to the experts of the European Commission. But one part of Serbia's public, based on a statement by the Association of Judges of Serbia, perceived that there was no public debate and that the draft laws on the Ministry's site were highlighted in this regard, but that it was not quite enough. We really want to believe that after this debate and after another explanation of the Ministry's representatives, none of the MPs on this issue will be in doubt and doubt. For us, the scientific and professional court, as well as the public court, is very important in this matter. On the other hand, when we talk about a set of judicial laws for us is a very professional composition consisting of representatives of the ministry, the OSCE Mission in Serbia, the judiciary, prosecutors, judicial and prosecutorial organisations. It should be noted that the implementation of a set of proposed judicial laws will bring about the biggest changes in Serbia's judicial system since 1946. The need for judicial reform requires legal changes that will be regulated by a new network of courts and public prosecutors in Serbia. The new network will include new judicial institutions, as already said here – the Supreme Court of Cassation, appeals and administrative courts. So the municipal courts, currently 120 in Serbia, will be reorganised into basic courts, which will be 34, which will be located in the district centres. As far as we can tell, no court will have less than 40 judges. Basic courts will have judicial units, so that citizens have access to administrative tasks in units. So where the municipal courts are today that won't get the status of the basic court will remain a judicial unit. The judicial units will be attended as necessary, and the citizens and their representatives will be able to verify the documents, hand over the cases in the office, have insight into the cases, and to carry out some trials. We want to believe in the Ministry's view that the new network of courts will facilitate the work of judges, increase efficiency and quality of judicial proceedings, i.e. we support the objective of judicial reform so that judicial disputes are resolved faster and that the trial takes the longest year in the first degree, and in the second degree of six months. In the new network of courts, it is said, the number of judicial assistants will be increased. So, every judge, except for the dactylograph, will have assistants, which is an additional reason to expect more effective work. According to this proposal, therefore, there will be 44 mistrials in Serbia. All areas in which the law enforcement authorities will be abolished will be awarded to the departments of criminal courts. Also, 26 senior courts, 16 businesses and four appeals courts will be formed in Serbia -- in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. As far as basic public prosecutors are concerned, it is evident that we will have a more rational network of basic public prosecutors to monitor the network of basic courts and it seems to be the same with senior prosecutors. As far as we could understand, when it comes to the basic public prosecutor's offices, there is no more important change in the number of prosecutors and other employees. The aim to achieve the proposed set of judicial laws is not disputed and the SPS Parliament Club – Unity Serbia supports both the government and the restoring ministry's efforts to realise that goal. But we can only talk about the quality of the proposed laws when they start and apply them practically. It is possible, for example, to accept that the good side of the bill is that the judges will be removed and thus the pressure of the small environment is reduced. On the other hand, the court in small areas is not only an authority of the judicial authority, but has a special phenomenon, a special social and local significance, because it brings together those of the most prominent and most educated people in the environment. Some courts even exist for a century, have traditions. For example, the Mionica Court of Justice, where in the first Serbian uprising, a New Age Serbian trial arose, which could lead to some negative consequences – because it would be necessary to carry out a new distribution of the case in new courts? The new distribution could take a very long time, and perhaps in some cases the new network of courts implies the initiation of court proceedings again, if the new network has the consequence of a change in the court council. If there are parallel experiences and exist in neighbouring countries, perhaps one experimental application of the set of proposed legal solutions should be made, so if the effect is positive then apply it to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that it is certainly one of the most important reforms in Serbia today that are being reformed by the judiciary. With that in mind, today when we start discussing a set of proposed judicial laws, and before we adopt the proposed legislative solutions, once again, of course, we need to ask the question and answer this question – whether sufficient and detailed analysis of the entire judiciary in Serbia has been carried out in the previous period, i.e. detailed analysis of the situation in the judiciary. At the very end, we are convinced that such a system of justice will be somewhat more uniformly distributed among judges, as has already been said here, and that there will be no event for us that some judges have several hundred cases a year, and the other about ten or 15. Of course, it must be kept in mind that judges are not more than 50km away from work and that the application of the system enables judges to specialize in certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6812	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, and after that, MP Nenad Konstantinovic. National MP Judita Popovic will also use her right to talk about the reasons for her opinion on the Justice and Administration Committee today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6813	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, we understand and believe that the legislator was very difficult when this set of draft laws on the judiciary prepared and made available to the Assembly for debate. First of all, he probably took into account the difficult legacy of Serbia's judiciary and prosecution, which has been instigating not only 20 years back, but perhaps a little longer in the past. Then, there were many missed opportunities, and the constitutional framework was quite limited by the legislator to carry out the proposed reforms. Therefore, with all these problems, we are today discussing a set of judicial laws, therefore, the Law on Courts and Prosecutors – how to arrange them, where they are established, how to organise the work of judges, judges and prosecutors, as well as criminal judges. In fact, one fundamental question is being raised – are these laws achieving the independence of the judiciary and prosecutors; are these laws being achieved by the depolitisation of the judiciary; are we achieving the expertise of the judge, the responsibility and the real integrity of the judge; is it indeed done by these laws; are we achieving a level playing field and making one balance of equal authorities: judicial, executive and legislative; are we doing so with these laws; are we completing these laws, or are we initiating a lustration process; are we achieving a certain savings in the organisation and work of the judicial authorities; are we achieving a serious reform of this important branch of government? When we get an answer to these questions, then we can say yes, yes, we have done one important thing that started on 5 October 2000 and which, in a strange way, stopped, that we have lost a lot of time in reviewing how to reform the judiciary, how to make this foundation of society reach its goal, to move forward in economic reforms, to reform the market, to achieve the free market and to achieve one life that needs this society, because that life is the basis of everything. Because of this life there are laws, because of this life we also make laws, reform laws and reform institutions. That certain things have gone beyond control, or have not been seen to the end, the proposal also bears witness to the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. In essence, today I will speak from the aspect of the Vojvodina. For this reason, I have singled out my opinion on the Committee on Justice, because I believe that the complexity of the Vojvodina is ignored when this law is proposed. So we have a case that in the violation courts, seats in the Vojvodina territory account for 15% of the total courts in Serbia's territory. So we have about 25% of the basic courts, about as much as the higher courts and appeals courts. It is unacceptable, say, to say that there is only one court of appeal in Vojvodina, it is in Novi Sad, and it seems to me that there are many good and great courts in Vojvodina that could bear that burden of appeal. The biggest problem is the basic courts, especially with regard to the basic court in Subotica, whose jurisdiction is also provided for the territory of municipalities: Ada, Backo Topola, Kanjiža, Mali Ijoš, Senta, court units are provided for in Bačka Topoli, Kanjiža, Senti and Ada. We think it's actually a rough mistake as far as Vojvodina is concerned, so we'll probably get into a situation in a few years, that the courts we're about to re-establish now, because we've taken into account some reality, which had to be taken into account, precisely for reasons, because Vojvodina can't be reduced just to territorial division, to administrative districts and to rationalization, or to savings. The complexness of the Vojvodina is also reflected in its territory and geography, as regards its traditions and history, as well as its national minorities, multiconfessionality and everything else. Therefore, it cannot simply be cut off and deleted from the map of a court card by certain courts that existed 200 - 300 years on the territory of Vojvodina, obviously have a certain tradition, only for the reason that we would rationalise and save some money, because it is not a reform. The reform is when laws, regulations comply with the reality of life, and this implies that all aspects that would determine these laws and regulations are taken into account. It is our opinion that these laws, or draft laws, which we are discussing today, are an important shift in relation to existing legislation. However, we have submitted a number of amendments, counting on you to have the understanding and to accept them, because these amendments are just because they were written and handed over so that what I said earlier would bring life into line with the rules, bring reality into line with your bill's proposals. So, improved the same, all in favor of our society. Because it is not enough to achieve statistics on law making, it is important that these laws serve their purpose, and above all, to improve the lives of all citizens. We don't need to pass laws every other year, we don't need to have these laws passed without them being applied. We need our laws to be applicable, to be realistic and to serve these laws as the basis for further reforms that are clearly needed. Today we are talking about judicial reform, tomorrow we will have a reform of the legislative authority, the executive authority, and it is not bad that we started reforming the judiciary, because it is the foundation of society. A good judiciary is the basis to come to foreign capital, to find that foreign capital safe. So, to invest in our country, which will again produce certain positive consequences, and these consequences are the ones why we are working and sitting in this Parliament. Therefore, these amendments, which have been submitted to these laws, we believe they deserve to be properly studied and adopted, at the very least.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6814	The word has a folk MP Nenad Konstantinovic, followed by Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6815	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say that I am extremely pleased that after 8 years, in which we have all witnessed the debate on judicial reform, criticism at the expense of the judiciary, the stories of how we should combat corruption and that it is very important for the judiciary, we have come to a situation where we have a serious radical and thorough reform of the judiciary. I think this is also the big step that this government has taken by proposing these laws. I think this is also a big step in general for the democratic process in Serbia, because judicial reform is the basis of a modern society. We have legislative, judicial and executive power. Legislative and executive powers were subject to review and review by citizens; we had elections at all levels, multiple times, we had and we passed new laws on the President of the Republic, new laws on local self-government, territorial organisation. So it was all subject to review both in the Serbian Parliament and in front of citizens. The only thing we didn't have was a serious reform of the justice system and a review of the organisation and the work of the judiciary. This reform is necessary for the reason that we are all facing each other, and the citizens know how inefficient our judiciary is. There is no rule of law, there is no legal certainty for citizens, and there is no justice available for citizens if court proceedings take 20 or more years. What we need is justice after 20 years, which you eventually accomplish and how we can accept that in 5.5 years, 4,300 criminal cases become obsolete. So 4,300 defendants avoided responding for what they did, because the judiciary was ineffective. We have a situation that the penalties, which are pronounced, are less than the legal minimum. So it's a state completely unacceptable. This situation cannot be changed by some half-reform and cannot be changed by some cosmetic changes or by minor changes and by additions to the law. The only thing that can change is, I repeat, a radical and root reform like we haven't had in this country, I can say, since World War II. The judiciary, not only is it ineffective, there is a single performance among citizens, the perception of citizens that the judiciary is corrupt. That's not good. The judiciary represents a dam for foreign investment in this country. We talked a lot about how important foreign investment is to us. We were talking about foreign capital that should come. Foreign capital needs to start some new jobs. Who is it that will come to Serbia to invest if his capital is not safe? Why would someone invest millions here and open factories if they can't in court proceedings and in court to find protection for their capital and their investments? So we have to change the judiciary to have more foreign investment and new jobs. In the end, fighting corruption. We have passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, but we cannot contain corruption without an independent and effective judiciary. The reform of the judiciary has been shown as a priority in all reports by the Council of Europe, all reports by the European Commission, and this is a priority in the process of joining the European Union. This reform cannot be successful if we do it in half, this reform cannot be successful if the proposed laws are tried even in the amendment assembly to mitigate, because there will be no effect. The laws proposed, which are before you, absolutely represent the development of the National Strategy adopted by this parliament in May 2006. In May 2006, this parliament wrote in the National Strategy that the network of courts is large. This parliament wrote that out of the 187 courts in the general and special competences that exist, most of the cases are located only in several courts in several cities, and that others, smaller, courts do not have enough cases and this parliament in the National Strategy predicted that a rationalisation of the network of courts should be carried out. I think that this law on the regulation of courts is absolutely made according to all the instructions of the National Strategy, which the Serbian Parliament has committed us to reform and, of course, this law on the regulation of courts establishes what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicted when it comes to judicial authority. All the courts that are proposed by this law on the regulation of courts are brand-new. As counterpart Palalic said -- there will be nothing the same after this reform, and I don't think it should be anything the same, we need to radically change our judiciary. The new is the Supreme Cassation Court, with new responsibilities over Serbia's Supreme Court. It is new because it judges only in the third degree and will have fewer cases than the Supreme Court, because we have introduced an administrative court to deal with administrative matters. They're new completely appeals courts, they haven't existed so far, and they're only judging in the second degree, judging only by complaints. So, we don't have a situation like the county courts to do a little bit of first-degree trial, a little bit of second-degree trial, so we've been waiting in the county court for months for the county court to decide by appeal. Now we have four appeals courts that will deal exclusively with trial in the second degree, therefore, by appeal. The new court is also senior, as the high court is now practically 90% of the first-degree court, in one small part it has second-degree jurisdiction. They are new and basic courts, new to their territorial organization, covering much larger territory. They're new basic courts because they have judicial units that they didn't have before. They're new because they have more judges than they've had and they're new because most of these courts are now going to have specialized departments, criminal departments, litigation, labour dispute department, executive-vanpartnership department. So we have a brand-new court order and I sincerely hope that we will have largely new judges who will be elected to work in these new courts. As for the new network of courts, the new network of courts allows citizens much easier access to justice. The thesis is incorrect, and I don't think it's a good thing we're scaring Serbian citizens that they won't have the right to judicial protection, that the court won't be available to them. Citizens, when these laws are passed, they won't have to travel elsewhere to go to court. Citizens will go to court in the same buildings they've been to before. Everywhere there was a municipal court and now there will be a judicial unit. The judges will be tried in the same courtroom. The offices will be in the same place. The signature certificate will be performed in the same buildings, in the same courts, on the same counters as before. So citizens will have easier access to justice because they will be impartial judges, because they will be independent of the influence of the local community, the local population, the local tycoon. How do you do that? By being in a larger court than before, which is the basic court located in the city or in the center of the county, there are 34, there will be at least 40 judges in each of them, these forty judges come from different places and live in different places, not only one place, and you will when you file your lawsuits or submit your proposals to the court for a natural judge who follows you, therefore, one of those 40. When a person who lives in Mionica files a lawsuit to the basic court in Valjev and a judge who is appointed, he will be appointed by a computer program rather than someone who knows or knows him, or knows the other side, and it will be one of the 40 judges who judge in the basic court in Valjev. It's the only way we can affirm the principle of fair trial, make it easier for citizens to come to justice and there's no bias. All those in this courtroom lawyers representing the court know very well that when they go to a smaller place where the other side of that place is that they have absolutely no chance of success in this dispute. We, who are lawyers, face it every day. These connections that exist at the bar, which are understandable, when you take, for example, the Frog Court, you have three judges, well, of course, that the entire local population is familiar with these three judges. There is no impartial trial. We have cases that he killed his neighbor because he ruled him one way or another. If we pass these laws, I think we'll avoid subjectivity and bias during the trial. The great thing about getting these laws is removing intricacies to a large extent. Why? In a court with three judges, and there are such courts in Serbia, although they would have had to have at least five according to systemization, but there is no need for five judges and three, these three judges judge both guilt and litigation and prosecution and in the investigation, judge also in outside matters. It is impossible for a judge to do well and to judge five different procedures well. This is how we get our specials. In the grand court, we have special departments. The judge's guilty will be found guilty, and the litigator will be tried in a lawsuit in the future. In this way the new network of courts with this law on the regulation of courts we are practically reducing the drastic differences that exist today. I mentioned courts with three judges, and you have the First Municipal Court in Belgrade with 73 judges. They both get the same salary, except they don't have the same working conditions for each other and they don't have the same number of objects. So we have a huge difference between drastically small courts and drastically large courts. You have as an essential feature of the efficiency of the work of judges inflows of cases monthly according to one judge. When you look at the statistics, you'll come to the conclusion that, for example, In court in Mionica you have 55 cases a month that arrive, you have five judges, each judge gets 10 cases a month. In Belgrade or in Valjevo, as Mininica will be part of the basic court in Valjevo, you have a 53-year-old inflow per judge in Valjevo. Why would a judge in Valjev have 53 new cases in work and a judge in Mionica 10 cases, and have the same salary? When it is one court and there are 40 judges, they will all have the same number of cases in the work and will allow for a more efficient trial. You have a situation with the number of objects currently in place. Take the case. In the First Municipal Court, each judge has an average of 290 cases, there are 118 in Valjev, in Mionica 39, so it cannot be an effective trial if someone has 290 cases in work, and we know that the norm prescribed by the High Council of Justice is about 25 judicial decisions, depending on the proceedings, not more than 25 judicial decisions a judge needs and can make in a month. This disproportionateness is going to shrink and we're definitely getting a much more effective judicial system. I think it's important to mention that balancing or unifying or embezzling is the establishment of a case law. We have a situation where you in the League get one decision on the same legal matter and, for example, in Mionica or Valjev, you get a completely different decision and a different verdict. Therefore, it is not legal certainty and there is no predictability of judicial practice and court decisions. When everything is in court in Valjev, you will have a uniform court practice. I didn't mention one important thing about the budget, and let's call it final, for the first time in these laws, we're introducing a court budget that judges themselves propose through the High Council of Justice. If we are talking about the independence of the judiciary, particularly independence from the executive power, then we should enable the judges to propose their own budget through the Supreme Council of the judiciary and to care for the spending of these funds on judges' salaries and on the work of courts. That's what this law allows. It is no longer the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that proposes part of the budget relating to the judiciary, but the High Judicial Council will propose that part of the budget. I think it largely guarantees the independence of the judiciary. Once again, I ask all those who want to help the citizens of Serbia, all those who want to grant justice and justice, all those who want to give the right to trial within a reasonable period, which we do not have, which are in this room, to support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6816	National MP Jovan Palalic seeks the right to reply, according to article 101, to mention in the presentation of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6817	I'm using the line right now. Dear counterpart Konstantinovic mentioned in the context that after this reform, nothing will be the same. Indeed, I believe that the abolition of 104 courts is not good, while an esteemed colleague said it was a great thing, which was done with this reform. The reason for the abolition of this 104 court has just been heard – the smaller the number of judges, it is more corruption. Now we get the impression that one of the reasons for the court being abolished is that in small courts, where there are few judges, there is a much greater degree of corruption than in large courts. We did not get any concrete indicators and data that, for example, in large courts in the centers of the district the degree of corruption is not as pronounced as, for example, here mentioned, Mininica or Black Weed, Arangelovac or Gornji Milanovac. It is a very serious thing to make such important decisions and strategies as the abolition of 104 courts in Serbia. I still believe that after this reform of the judiciary, nothing will be the same and that it is disastrous to abolish 104 courts with an explanation that the degree of corruption there is extremely high, because a small number of judges there are doing, that they are wicked, that they are subject to local tycoons and all that is said here. I think it is necessary for such qualifications to come up with concrete data and say that in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, where a large number of judges are, but also where larger cases and greater interests are, the degree of corruption is extremely low, but that, let's say, in Gadjin Han and Doljevac, that degree is so great that we must abolish that court. And tomorrow, we might get into a situation to say that in small towns, teachers in primary and secondary schools are very corrupt, so let's drop both primary and secondary schools there, and then move those schools nicely to county centers. And then we're going to put an end to the health care facilities and everything that we think is not supposed to exist in small places because corruption is terrible, because people know each other a lot better! I think with such arguments, if such arguments exist, a serious debate should be opened before the law is passed, because such qualifications can lead some people to come out with suggestions that all the republican institutions in Serbia should be abolished and an unheard centralisation in all segments of public life in Serbia. I don't think that's good, and that can be a devastating consequence in a situation where we all declare ourselves to be decentralisation of Serbia's government and even regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6818	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6819	Mrs. Komic comes out of the usual cliché then she comes to the field of dignity. Mr. Konstantinovic may have made some mistakes that will cause him to suffer consequences within his party, but in some ways he questioned the reputation of the SRS. He has repeatedly said that these changes in the set of judicial laws are actually radical changes. It has nothing to do with radical changes, to be clear. Radicals have nothing to do with this. That's the first thing. Another thing that's very important, now I'm going to explain everything nicely. That when you go to the U.S. Embassy to write another speech, this one was bad for you. This has nothing to do with radicals and radical changes. These are reverse changes, now, depending on how you turn around, it can be forward. If you turn 180 degrees and go, you go backwards, and Konstantinovic says you go ahead. It's not going forward. We'll get a party court. It's a change for them. He goes on to say, everything remains the same, and he properly fried his exposure to something that we've been arguing about here, but he wasn't there, and that's, uh, a reasonable trial. Please, we used to have very good provisions in our regulations on the time limit for a first-degree verdict, within which time should a second-degree verdict be reached, as long as it can be held, until the charges have to be filed, etc. Now you've reduced it not to years or figures but to formulations, so we have something that's a reasonable time. Let me remind you what it looks like in Europe. I will take the International Court, the UN tribunal and there is a standard that must be tried within a reasonable period, so Vojislav Seselj began his trial in the sixth year of detention. All international standards have been violated. So this has nothing to do with radical changes, this has to do with democratic change, with the European path that Boris Tadic and DS lead us, and you know for yourself, this road is about like when you move a little forward, so turn around a little bit by 180 degrees and move back forward. We are now heading towards the eighth session and the Broz system of the judiciary in terms of the committee's control of the judgments brought by the courts. Just to remind you, if you've read some legal books, then you remember that the period is described by the fact that when the judge comes to work first, he comes to the committee and they dictate his verdict, when he comes to court, he said. That's what Mr. Konstantinovic stands for, and this radical change has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6820	There is no breach of Article 104, which is referred to by the MP. The issue of the use of expression is the right of every MP, including Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic. If he had offended anyone, he would have been warned if he had violated the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milica Radovic has a word after Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, I must say at the very beginning that I am very surprised that we are already talking about this set of judicial laws today. Today, on the new network of courts, on the regulation of courts and on courts, or amending the Law on Violations, tomorrow on Judges and the High Council of the Court, the day after tomorrow on prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors. I believe that very quickly this set of judicial laws was found in the assembly procedure and that it needed to be preceded by an extensive public debate. I think this is a very brave move from the Justice Department, among other things, because they engage in a process they don't know how it's going to happen or if it's even possible. We have a series of radical solutions that are proposed in this bill, but I think they can only be applied if you're sure and, if you're 100% sure that it won't create a worse situation than the existing one. I apologize to Mr. Krasic, I don't think he's going to report on his injury to the Rules of Procedure, because this is not used in bad and negative terms. Given that we will discuss at least three days on the proposal of these laws from the set of justice, I will discuss each and every one of them, when they come to the agenda, to make my remarks. I agree with the idea that the judicial system is a necessary reform, but it should primarily be well designed, it should be realistic and feasible. What justice needs the least at this point is exactly one fast and quite superficial relationship to this branch of government. Namely, the only reason I managed to find such a quick review of these draft laws, and possibly adoption, is in an interview with Ms. Malovic, the minister of justice, where she says they are one of the basic conditions for Serbia to get candidate status for membership in the European Union. On this occasion, I will not step away from the agenda point, but I think it is quite obvious and that it is clear to all that Serbia will get candidate status for membership in the European Union at the moment it is able and ready to accept, establish good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija, because the acceptance of Eulex has already taken the first step towards recognising the unilaterally declared secession of the southern Serbian province. Therefore, I would simply ask that this reason for the quick adoption of these laws is no longer applicable. We had a chance to hear that these bill proposals were in preparation for more than a year and that they had passed a few rounds of consultation. The truth is, there were two expert discussions, but none of them were public debates. One was held in February, the other was held in September. We also had the opportunity to see at the Justice Department's site the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which never came into assembly procedure. In fact, it has been so drastically changed that today we are discussing a proposal that has nothing to do with the previous website of the Justice Ministry, and then it is a fundamental and logical question – how do you expect the public to be familiar with all the proposals of the provisions of this bill, if neither the prosecutors nor the judges themselves, in fact, have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the content of the draft of these laws? The Democratic Party of Serbia has huge objections and objections to each of these laws in the set of judicial laws, but I think it is one of the most important ones in terms of the draft law on the regulation of courts and areas of courts and public prosecutors. If this law goes into effect, 104 courts will cease to exist. They'll quit. A huge number of misdemeanor courts will be abolished and, therefore, a huge number of public prosecutors. I think it's very bad, especially if there are no criteria on the basis of which the courts are abolished. Earlier, I remember, it was in circulation a criterion relating to the abolition of those courts that count less than five judges. That was a clear criterion. I don't know why you didn't apply that criterion. If you felt that there were reasonable reasons for the small inflow of the case, why did you simply not accept it and build a new court network based on this criterion? This is now done in the worst possible way. There are no criteria for abolishing these courts, and I find this solution, simply, unsustainable. We understand that the abolition of the courts themselves is entirely justified, but then we need to do an expert analysis, determine the actual state of affairs, and predict which courts are to be abolished. The court has special importance, both in society and in the lives of each individual individually, because this is the last distance where citizens can protect their guaranteed rights and freedom. By eliminating this number of courts, we make it more difficult for them in most cases, and if not, we're making it impossible. How do you think a citizen, in order to get to court, needs to go or travel 70 miles or more? He's got cases like that. I can call on that, and I'm sure I'll call in a debate. How do you think that's even feasible and how you defend by arguing that justice will be available to everyone? I believe that when this proposal was drawn up, they were not a consultant and a criterion that they were not allowed to be bypassed, which is the size of the municipality itself, the dissociation of the municipality and the development of road infrastructure. The proposer of this law came from the idea that there should be a single rationalisation of the network of courts, resulting in a reduction in the court's costs. This idea has no basis in this bill. If you cancel the court, that doesn't mean you're terminating the court building. The court building will remain that it exists. It will be necessary to allocate a number of funds, the amount of funds, to maintain it. You will not end or leave your job without all the employees of that judicial unit and these are expenses, too, that should not be ignored. What represents the essence of this is where are the costs of the costs of the judge's travel expenses when he leaves, to get to know the case files, to another court or to the trial itself? Where are the costs of the witness himself, the expert, the possible interpreters, the costs of delaying the trial itself? Take an example – an example of Bosilegrad and an example of Vranja itself. In Vranj, you have a basic court. The distance between Vranj and Bosilegrad is 110 km. These are facts that we should not forget and should have kept in mind much earlier, when drawing up the very proposal for this law. The abolition of courts is a political issue, and I believe that it can, in addition to causing a huge discharge of the court's own employees, cause a number of other negative effects. It is not clear to me that no one has thought in this direction, that by proposing such a bill, we will influence that the border areas will begin to be empty. It's about small municipalities with a very small level of employment. It should not be forgotten that the largest number of citizens of these municipalities are employed in such bodies. If you abolish this court, you will suffer the consequences of participating in something called the death of these cities and citizens will be forced to go to the centers themselves. Great gravity will be expressed towards the centres, which directly undermines the idea of regional development and decentralisation itself. A special problem is the Belgrade judiciary. Here you will have the first basic court to be responsible for the territory of the entire city. He'll cover the whole town without suburban municipalities. To clarify, he will cover the territory of all the previous five municipal courts, take all their cases and then expect him to be a court that can effectively act. He'll be overbooked. It is not clear to anyone how the work of this court will be carried out and organised, especially if there is no additional means to implement this law. What's that number of courtrooms he's going to have? Where's the management gonna be? Where's the office? Has anyone thought about it? The Belgrade judiciary is now extremely overbooked. We have a constant lack of the number of courts themselves. The trials are scheduled, i.e. every second or third day, resulting in a direct manifestation of the frequency of the hearing’s appointment and the search itself. How did you imagine the first court would assume the jurisdiction of all the previous five municipal courts and act effectively in all this? In one daily paper, I think it's "Blah," I read that the criminal court is going to be the fourth court. Anyone who's ever been to the Fourth Court can conclude there's not enough room for that. The fourth municipal court doesn't even have a detention unit. How do you plan to organise criminal trials there? From that same article, I read, too, that the Court of Justice will be in charge, that there will be a judicial court. In the Palace of Justice today you have two basics, two municipal courts and one district court and those in such conditions of work fail to judge each day. How do you plan to further burden yourself with jurisdiction and the cases of three other municipal courts? This is unimaginable. Since time no longer allows me, because of the time foreseen for my parliamentary group, I will report later through the Rules of Procedure, to comment on other drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6822	I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours, continuing the discussion according to the reports. The first word will be made by MP Milisav Petronijevic, after Milovan Radovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6823	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are seven extremely important laws in front of the National Assembly, seven laws that legally govern an entire branch of government: the judicial system in general, in Serbia. We think it's an extremely important question, an important question. I belong to those who think it is necessary to provide as many MPs as possible, i.e. the greater unity, the more to be clarified, the more to explain to the public the essence of the change in the area, for the simple reason why one system that should be governed and which is not related to the mandate of a government. Given that today these three laws are on the agenda: on the regulation of courts, on the seats and areas of courts and on the amendment of the Law on Infringements, the SAA will in principle support these laws. She has a lot of questions to ask in the context of this debate, which we expect will take several days, in which we expect that, besides MPs, the public will also participate, I will return to the beginning, with the aim of reaching a law that will achieve a high degree of unity, but also clear things. When I say that we will support in principle, first of all, I mean the goal of passing these laws, I mean the reasons. We believe that these laws create conditions to ensure rational territorialisation of courts and public prosecutors, create conditions for an effective judiciary, create conditions for better work of courts, for better work of courts. What we have is a red line when we observe the organisation and work of courts, that is how much Serbian citizens will have, that is, whether Serbian citizens will have more scales than they had, whether they will feel the consequences of changing these laws better or will be worse. We are convinced that the Minister in her presentation has assured us that, regardless of the change in the organisation of these courts, the availability of justice for all citizens will be the same, but even when the solutions in these laws are looked at, the citizen will not lose anything. I think that's the most important thing. On the contrary, that he would have the same level of service as he had. What we want to start, these are some specific issues and I think that during this debate, they need to be clarified as much as possible. Here, I'm going to ask one question, to give Mrs. Minister the opportunity to the public, and to all of us, that she needs an explanation. First of all, has he learned enough this way of organising courts? Are the deadlines provided for adequate deadlines? Given that there are changes in the courts, which are quite large, I will take the example of Belgrade. Belgrade had nine municipal courts, now it will have two. I think it is at Serbia's level the biggest change in the organisation of Serbia's courts. Given that some courts will even physically have to move out, as well as the court records, is this enough time to apply this law? The second question, given that two basic courts are formed in Belgrade, the first basic court for the territory of the city, with more than 1,700,000 to be covered by the first basic court, is that a little too bulky? How many hundred judges will that be? Has that all been learned? It is necessary to give the public an answer. Third, are all criteria respected until the end when basic courts, judicial units in Belgrade are determined? In addition to two basic courts, there are four judicial units. It's Lazarec, Obrenovac, Young Man and Sopot. I'm asking, is there a possibility that we're not asking him to be a primary court, but a judicial unit for the territory of the Municipality of Grock? The Municipality of Grocka is a large territory, divided, from Smederev to the Boulevard of the Revolution, from Mladenvec to Panchev, with nearly 100,000 inhabitants. Under the Law of Territorial Organization, she would have the status of a city. Isn't this a chance, we have submitted a concrete amendment, to form a judicial unit in the municipality of Grocka? This would confirm that, regardless of this organisation of courts, citizens will be better off. In any case, when it comes to concrete solutions, we will specifically talk about each issue. So far, with the support that we are essentially going to make these changes that are proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6825	National MP Milovan Radovanovic, SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today in Serbia we currently have a state-national crisis, Kosovo and Metohija not to mention your attempt, but not to let the people know how to accept EULEX, Vojvodina with a bill of statutes and a danger to separate the northern Serbian province from Serbia. We have an economic and social crisis, not to mention how much harder the people are living, parliamentary and democratic crisis, with the theft of parliamentary and parliamentary mandates by people led by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who is now entering the hall, and about the morale of the same group of people not to speak, as well as the attack and destruction of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the development of crime and corruption, with a number of new people who have acquired wealth in an illegal way, and some former members of the SRS, have just now entered the hall, which imports yachts, though, in another's name, but also other people's money that they acquired in an illegal way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we cannot expect the normal functioning of Serbia's legal order and judicial system when there is a major centralisation of the authorities and politicisation of the work of the judicial authorities. Let me remind you, Article 146. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says in the view of 1st that the judge's office is permanent. I know, and we all know that some people don't deserve to be one day in the office of judges, but most judges are honest and honest. Today, the minister of justice is not present, he says, judges are elected for the court, not for the judge's office, which paradox. It is said here that the court is a state authority, that judges are elected to the office of judge and judge, the authority is the state framework in which the judge and the court act. The judge in the court is a worker of the state authority, i.e. the court. The judge's office is compatible with the duties of judges in court and is therefore important and important. Here's the point of the question. The concept of a new network under the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors provides that instead of the now existing 120 municipal courts and public prosecutors, there are 34 municipal courts and 34 basic public prosecutors. Of course, each of us will make some remarks here at the courthouse, the prosecution, from the middle from which it comes. So for Alexine, the environment from which I come, I will say that the law stipulates that the Municipal Court of Infractions in Aleksinec should be abolished. The Municipal Court of Aleksinac is being abolished, and a basic court is being established in Nis for the territory of the entire county, except for Merošin. So, for Alexine, Razanj, Gajin Han, Svrljig, Doljevac and the city of Nis, of course with judicial units in Aleksinac, Raznja and Svrlig. Also, the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Aleksinac is being abolished, and a basic public prosecutor's office is being established in Nis for the area and territory of the entire district, except Merosina. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed legal solution for the Aleksinac municipality and its citizens is unacceptable for a number of reasons. I know that there are many people who deal with justice in many municipalities and are not satisfied with these solutions that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly. The Alexinac municipality's territory has over 60,000 inhabitants and 72 settlements, and its territory is one of the largest in Serbia, and after Pirot is the largest territory. If 22 settlements in the municipality of Razanj are taken into account, then the existence of an infringing municipal court and a basic prosecutor's office is justified by a purely territorial, geographical aspect. If it is taken into account that the possibility and the need to exercise the rights of citizens and the protection of these rights, when considering and resolving this issue and these problems, it is justified to remain the Municipal Court in Alexinac, as well as the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Municipal Crimes Authority. If we have in mind, on this rational and functional side, that a citizen is about to cross a few tens of kilometers, or even a hundred kilometers, to protect his basic right or to exercise his rights, then what you have proposed in a set of these judicial laws is, indeed, unwarranted. The territorial criterion has not been consistently applied in the bill, because in the establishment of basic and municipal and criminal courts and basic public prosecutors there are certain illogicalities, because they have maintained their status in certain places that are smaller than the municipality of Aleksinac. I will give an example of Gornji Milanovac, Obrenovac, Sjenice, etc., the basic court and the basic prosecutor's office, let's say, in Boro, Piroth, Negotina, Paracino, Požega and Prepolje. The selection of the criteria for the establishment of seats, misdemeanor and basic courts and primary public prosecutors, their departments, or units, is rather vague and uncomplicated. Because you can't even see the criteria there. In Aleksinac there are conditions, spatial and material nature, for the work of the judicial authorities, there is a high-level chamber. The bill provides for the number of first-degree judicial authorities to be aggregated in this territorial context. There is some justification for that, but when it comes to, I cite the case of Nis, where a misdemeanor court, the basic court in Nis or the public prosecutor's office is formed, there is absolutely no excuse. An example in the municipality of Aleksinac, if the legislator was managed by the inflow of the case, and this inflow is only for the 2007 period of 9,022 cases, it is a smaller number of inflows than in other courts. If the legislator is governed by the criteria of the distance of the courts from each other, and there is no principle and consistency. I will set you an example of the distance of the court in Uzica, and Požega, Paracino and Jagodina, and it is 20 kilometers from one court to another. If managed by the number of judges, according to the decision, there are 18 judges in Aleksinc, eight judges, say, in Prepolje, and remains, the basic, municipal court in Prepolje, nine judges in Požega, Bor 14 judges, Vrsac five judges, in Kikinda 15 judges and not to give further examples. Some courts, ladies and gentlemen, don't respond to lawsuits filed by the SRS against individual faces. Whether the court will react in the event of a single daily today, I say one that does not mention his name, conveyed comments from former SRS deputy president Tomislav Nikolic, where he says -- "I confirm the informal information that offers to the SO Alexinac committees up to 2,500 euros to secure a quorum for a session at which the ruling coalition in Aleksinac on Thursday," he said, "thirteen SNS council members are replaced by new SRS committees". Next, he says, "I know big money is offered to certain committees in Aleksinc to replace our committees. There is a concern that some might even forget that they had moved from radical to SNS, so that they would quickly return to the old flock. I would tell them all to think about living in a small community where everything is known and that their fellow citizens, neighbors, could ask them anything. "That's what Nikolic says, so that's what the daily list is mentioned. I ask Nikolic, does he wonder, given that the Alexinac really had a small environment, how he would react when the former president of the OO SRS, the illegal president of the municipality, the usurper of that function, took an oath in the church on June 6th, where he swore to God and to the Orthodox faith of the SRS, that the mandate would belong to the party who proposed him to that place, and said, "How I respected and fulfilled this oath, so help me God!"! It is a small centre of Alexinac, but Nikolic should wonder if it is good for the leader of the group of people who have bowed to the new party. Asking if he's responsible, because the former president of the OO says he's under duress to sign a contract, which he also confirmed in court, whether he signed under duress, and he's talking about coercion. If he's talking about coercion, he's responsible, he may be guilty of coercion, of course, which didn't exist. Well, if he's talking about coercion, and he's responsible, he could be guilty of a coercion that didn't exist. There is much to be asked (more time) about Tomislav Nikolic, the SRS parliamentary mandates usurper and the parliamentary mandates usurper in many parts of Serbia. One more thing, there will be a crisis in the functioning of SO Alexinac, he is coming tomorrow to solidify the possible blockade of the functioning of the municipality, and the citizens will suffer from lagging behind in the development of infrastructure, roads, sewerage, winter road maintenance, etc. That's what they do, buying jobs, chasing people and going around the people they promise, and doing it in a few days, some, of course, and no, or it's just gonna stay on promises, not to go back to the ranks of the SRS, because they realize they've been mistaken and they've been very, very, very fat. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6827	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Maja Lausevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6828	Dear Presidents, honourable promoters, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws on justice and we are witnesses of the contemporary reforms of the judiciary in us. The draft law governing the regulation of court legislators had an intensification, which was provided for by the Constitution itself, that the judicial authority was independent of the legislative and executive authority. What exactly does that mean? We are witnesses, as lawyers, as judges, as citizens, that there have been certain biases in determining the judge or judge, as suggested in Article 5. The bill states. He says, "The judge" who judges is determined independently of who the parties are and what the circumstances are of legal matters. '"In this way, the legislator has the intensities to ensure impartiality in the very conduct of the law. This law introduces courts of general jurisdiction and courts of special jurisdiction. In the courts of general jurisdiction, we have, above all, the basic courts, which, in the first degree, are to be tried for criminal offences, for which the fine or sentence of prison is intended for up to ten years, if the second court is responsible for some of them and decides to suspend the security measure or the legal consequences of a criminal offence under its jurisdiction. In the first degree, the Court of First Instance judges civil proceedings and judges executive and non-parony proceedings, unless another court has jurisdiction. This law introduces a higher court. The Supreme Court judges in the first degree and that is for criminal offences, if, as the main penalty, the sentence of prison is more than 10 years, and in civil proceedings, which we have decidently worked out in the Law on Criminal Procedure, when the value of the case of the dispute allows for the publication of the audit. The Supreme Court also decides on complaints, which is a newspaper in our judicial system, on the decisions of the basic courts, and that: on the determination of security measures, the presence of the accused in a reduced criminal procedure, on civil proceedings resolutions, on judgments in small-value disputes in executive and non-parony proceedings. The Court of Appeal shall decide, by appeal, on decisions of senior courts, on decisions of the basic courts in criminal proceedings if no senior court is responsible for the decision under appeal, on the judgments of the basic courts in civil proceedings if no senior court is responsible for the decision on appeal. It introduces jurisdiction of the Court of Commerce, so far we have had a trade court, and jurisdiction of the High Court of Commerce. Instead of the Violent Crimes Authority and the Violation Council, this bill will introduce a court for violations and a Higher Violent Court. How in our legal system we have an abundance of the authority of the administration is, in fact, being introduced by the Administrative Court who will solve and exercise the control of legality, acts adopted in the administrative procedure, means administrative courts and, as supreme, the Court of Cassation is being introduced by this draft law. It is also very important that what is new in our legal system is that it is the judicial administration run by the President of the Court. He represents the court, manages the judiciary and is responsible for proper and timely work. In addition to all the responsibilities that the Presidents of the Court have in the current legal system, there is also the existence of so-called. Deputy Court. The civil appeal procedure so far due to impunity is foreseen by the proposal in Article 55 and says that when the party and the other participant file a complaint in the proceedings, the President of the Court is obliged to consider both its founding and the measures taken to inform the applicant of the complaint, as well as the President of the Court of Justice, and all within 15 days of the date of receipt of the complaint. What's a big problem in practice, it's the court's security. We have a judicial guard that is armed and uniform service, which takes care of the safety of people and property, order, peace and smooth conduct of official operations in a judicial body building. There is also the possibility that the assistance of the judicial guard will be provided by the internal affairs authorities, which would be provided as necessary to the judicial guard. The head of the judicial authority shall have the right to require the Minister of Home Affairs to provide special protection to the judge, the jury, the public prosecutor, the deputy public prosecutor, the judge for the offences and their families or property. The second law, which is on the agenda today, discussed by esteemed colleagues in the debate so far, is the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. What is the sublimation and intensity of the applicant of this proposal is that the proposed judicial organisation takes care not to distort the availability of justice to all citizens, which will not be done in this way. According to the current law in the Republic of Serbia, we have 138 municipal courts, and according to the bill, there are 34 basic courts, which largely assume the jurisdiction of existing municipal courts. The Law on the Regulation of Courts provides that municipalities in which municipal courts and departments of general courts existed are to be educated judicial units of the basic courts. Individual judicial units will carry out trials and all other court cases, so that our citizens have no right, have no grounds to worry that all transactions there, submission of submissions etc., will be carried out in judicial units as before. The legislator's intensity is that judges are brought to an equal position in one way, because judges do not have the same number of cases, for example in Belgrade, Novi Sad and, let's say, in smaller places, frog, titel, etc. The DS MPs will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6829	In accordance with Article 85(4), we will continue our work by the end of the agenda today. The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6830	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government, will not spend too much time, as the LDP's principal attitudes in his exposé have been expressed by LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic, but I will use part of the time left for LDP to ask a few questions to the government's representatives, with a request that we receive adequate answers. As far as the laws themselves are concerned, which should be regulated by the judicial system in the state of Serbia, I would first refer to what is called a limiting factor, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is not only brought in a tragic way, but in itself is tragic, full of standards that are contrary to themselves. So we now have a paradoxical situation, namely, in the 19th century, the constitutions that embodies democracy have corrupted the bad laws that hindered that democracy. We now have some sort of opposite movement in the 21st century, where the bad constitution needs to fix good laws. Now I wonder how we're going to try to fix what's bad in the Constitution with laws like this? Of course, these laws have positive sides and all that is in them should be supported positively. I'll just mention an example of the administration court. Serbian legal tradition recognises such an institution, because it was once a state council in Serbia and it has its role and its importance and that's good. For example, questions are raised, and I would like to be answered by the representatives of the Government, i.e. basic and senior courts whose territorial jurisdiction coincides. In doing so, it avoids the name "Circular Court", which has a 200-year tradition in Serbia, i.e. we remember the Sretenjski Constitution in 1835, which recognises the district court, and all the constitutions recognize that name to this day. I do not understand why this name, which is deeply rooted in Serbian tradition, has been replaced by the name - the high court. I would also like to get an explanation of what the meaning of matching the territorial jurisdiction of the primary and senior courts is? Then I'd like to ask the government's representatives a question. With this kind of legislation, how do they imagine they're going to redistribute the case, according to the new court organization? In fact, the distribution itself could take months. I'll remind you of the next one. When the court is redistributed, some are abolished, and some new ones are formed, and there is a re-distribution of judges, and some of the new ones will be judged by the old ones. It is known that when the new major takes over the old object, the process starts from scratch, so from scratch. So what's there to improve efficiency? In my opinion, it's not an improvement in efficiency, it's a delay in procedures that are ineffective anyway, our entire judiciary is as it is now, ineffective. I would ask a question about the abolition of certain courts that have a deep-rooted tradition in certain cities in Serbia. In fact, it should be noted that courts are a special local and social phenomenon. It should now be explained in certain environments, where only state institutions, schools and courts work – what about social life when a part of the intellectuals leave these places by force of coercion, because they will have to work in other places, since their jobs have been abolished by the abolition of courts? In the end, I would ask the question – what about such a structure of the prosecution, since the Constitution, although I just pointed to a limiting factor, the Constitution as a limiting factor, established a monocrat system of the prosecution's arrangements? With such an arrangement as the current draft law, one prosecutor will have 30 and more deputies. Where is this possibility of direct control of the direct organ manager? Where is efficiency and where is what we all call a quality in the judiciary, or in the prosecution? How will a monocratically decorated organ be able to control what is necessary for the good functioning of prosecutors? I would return to the question that this is not just about tradition, about what I've been talking about, but also about the very practical reasons for abolishing certain courts. I would like to get an answer to all these questions from the government's representatives because we believe that these issues are essential, while these are systemically important laws, so that they should not be passed through these shortcomings, or through these anomalies without an adequate response from the government's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6831	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Bortic, instead of Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6832	Dear Presidents, respected representatives of the Ministry, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, the draft law in the area of justice that we are discussing today represent to a significant extent the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate this important area of institutional organisation of our society in line with democratic tendencies in the modern world and to bring it closer to European legislation. I am convinced that the proposed texts will be significantly improved and debated in this assembly, and in this sense I appeal to all MPs, both from the ruling coalition and from the opposition, to make their contribution to allow for the best democratic solutions in judicial practice. This time, I will not deal with a deeper analysis of the proposed laws, among other things, and because the promoter has given a comprehensive explanation of the basic objectives and the spirit of these laws. The SPS-JS, as part of the ruling coalition, are fundamentally justified by the proposed laws, which are why we have entered into the establishment of a common government, because they justify some of the basic principles of our policy. Here, first of all, I mean building the principle of an independent judiciary, the equality of citizens before the law and the evenness of the conditions in accessing the court through a new network of courts. At the same time, I believe that there are some shortcomings in the current proposals, and therefore I have proposed several amendments that I will talk about when the amendments are discussed. On this occasion, I just want to point out one illogicality in the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. This illogicality has been pointed out by many citizens, businessmen and representatives of the judiciary from all municipalities in the Machuvan district area. Because of them, but also because of all the other citizens of Serbia, I suggest that in Article 5 of this law, the proposer has not changed at all the network of current trade courts, despite the fact that there were the most complaints by the international community and international organisations, as well as the parties in the process, precisely, to the work of these courts. Starting from the declared objective of Serbia's even development and the need for all citizens and legal persons to be given equal access to the court, the question arises – why should the economic court be established in the Kolubar district, while covering municipalities and the Mačvanski District, when it is known that the Mačvan County is greater than Kolubarski by all its potentials and resources? When I say this, I mean the following facts: First, the Mačvan County has six municipalities and two cities where more than 300,000 people live, and the Kolubar County has five municipalities and one city where 200,000 people live. Second, the seat of the Mačvanski district, the town of Shabac, is geographically closer to the largest number of municipalities from both districts, whose population traditionally gravity towards Šapec. Thirdly, the Mačvanski District has a far larger number of business entities compared to Kolubarski, and according to the flow of money, this district is the third in Serbia, right after Belgrade and Novi Sad. Fourthly, so far practice in the Trade Court in Valjevo shows that the largest number of clients in front of this court is from the Machuvan district area. So the logical question arises – why would the parties from the Machuvan district cross hundreds of miles and miles to Valjev to settle the dispute, when Shabac is within reach of them? This, a team before, that the city of Sabac has all the capacities and potentials needed to form an economic court, a spatial, human resources and a very rich tradition in the area of justice. If we want a balanced and rational development of Serbia and the construction of a society in which institutions will be available to all citizens, then there is no reason for the headquarters of the economic court not to be in Sapco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6833	Thank you. There's a word from MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6834	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to all previous speakers and it is clear who has had direct experiences and years of experience in court practice and in representing or acting before courts. It's visible from the exposure of each of the distinguished colleagues. I'll say something that's principled. Today, it seems to me that the EU member states, the countries of the highest legal standards and the highest legal certainty. That's the principle goal that our country is seeking. However, in the organisation of the judicial authority, each of these countries has come from its own tradition, of its mentality, of the geographical, traffic and all other specificities that exist in the country. I think the intention of proposing these legal solutions is similar. I will not repeat, but it seems to me that the general understanding of all political parties, as well as Serbian citizens, is that the court is not an institution in which neither citizens nor political parties have full confidence. During the last few months of congregation work, these speakers set concrete examples of concrete court proceedings. In 1990, the SPO sought a complete reform of the social, economic and political but legal system. Unfortunately, serious reform begins only with these proposals for legal solutions. Secondly, what is particularly important to us, as a party that is a monarchic commitment, to respect good solutions from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, even in terms of the name of appeals and cassation courts that were courts of great influence and great respect during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It's quite and expected that the biggest controversy caused the so-called. It's a network of dishes. Today, we have heard many colleagues say that many municipal courts are being abolished. That's just not true. Citizens should know that everywhere there is a municipal court today, that the court will still exist, only not to be called a municipal court, but in most cases – a judicial unit of the primary court. Citizens should know that, as far as the distance from the place of residence or residence is concerned, the court will continue to be available and that in the same place, where they have so far been teaching lawsuits, complaints, submissions, records, manuscripts, contracts, and everything else, they will be able to work. But that good solution from the Kingdom of Yugoslavia is something that the writer of these draft laws thought about. In fact, for four to five years, the judge could have tried in one environment. After that, he would change the environment, because it's perfectly logical that, as an influential man, he would gain friendships and acquaintances and thus be subject to the influence of the local environment. What I can say, as a longtime representative in front of most of the courts in our country, is that, in the first contact with someone who works in court or who's being courted, you can immediately know which court expert you should contact, which representative, which judge and who is responsible for. I mean, first of all, legal and illegal treatment. It's impossible, and someone's great noticed, that in the local middle the party on the side achieves the expected success in the process, precisely because of the influence of the local environment. In that sense, I think that the government should consider, as soon as possible, adopting a new law on judicial experts, as one of the most important laws for the sake of the fact that, for example, in criminal proceedings, it may be necessary in 90% of criminal proceedings to act as a certain judicial expert. Also, it's the same in other procedures. Of course, that link between local judges, local lawyers, local court experts, is to the extent that our citizens, rightly, in a situation where, by law and justice, they should have success in the dispute, take their hands off and say, there's nothing we can do here. Also, I mean, I'll talk about it a little bit more when we talk about the Law on Judges, the basic principle – the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time and to get satisfaction in a criminal or litigation procedure in our country since 1945, so, above all, it has not been respected. Today we only have one judicial verdict for the worst crimes of the 1990s. Even for the murder of the prime minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, the verdict is still not a forceful one. What should an ordinary citizen expect if the state and the judicial authority treat the most serious crimes in this way? I want to say that this phenomenon, which I have just mentioned, is unimaginable in EU countries. A special fund has been set up in EU or US countries following the assassination, or attack on the Twin Towers in New York, to assist victims of the terrorist act. It was founded by the state because it was considered responsible for the failures that led to the consequences. I think this is just the beginning. It won't depend on the text of the law, but, first of all, on the people who need to do this. That's why it's a good thing there's going to be a general choice of judges. It is good that, in some ways, people who are networked in local environments move to other environments. It's a good thing the party, or the lawyer won't know who's going to act in a specific case. It's all a way to greater legal certainty. Of course, as a country and a society in transition, we cannot expect all problems to be solved in a short time. Someone here mentioned only a technical problem and we from the SPO are absolutely aware of how much time it takes to take the items, to move the archives, to get the technical staff employed or moved to another place, etc. But it's all nothing compared to the most important postulate that we all need to have in mind, which is legal certainty and the right of citizens to a fair trial. These SPO assessments are shared and most of the political parties here and representatives of the international community, they say the cancer wound of this society is corruption and justice. Without eradicating corruption, without strong reforms and procedures in the area of justice, it is impossible to do so. Are these solutions the best? I believe not. I believe they can be even better. I believe the government will accept many amendments. But whether the government has taken one good course to address these problems, I think it is and will therefore have the support of the SPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6835	Thank you. The word is Mrs Natasa Micic, but I apologize to Mrs Natashi, first Miroslav Petkovic, and so do you. Your MP group has six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6836	Dear President, please check your time, given that colleague Radovic spoke for 12 minutes and six seconds, and the DSS Group has 25 minutes. But I'll make sure I leave enough time and time to my colleagues. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Madam Minister is not here, but I will begin my discussion by quoting her opening act, or presentation, as she called it. In the first sentence, the minister said, "Every wise politician knows that just from the degree of independence of the judiciary depends on his position as a citizen. The more he opens the door during his term of office to democratisation of institutions, the more his interest, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, will be protected." Dear representatives of the independent judiciary, I think you're all clear on the first sentence of Madam Minister what our status and position will be in the coming period. About the set of judicial laws we are discussing today were two non-public debates in February and September 2008, one public three-hour debate that we heard a lot about today, that they were representatives of all the competent institutions, authorities, state bodies that should be discussed. I don't think a serious conclusion can be reached in three hours on seven serious laws. These laws were set up on the Justice Ministry site, so we had a chance to see that this proposal for a law on territorial organisation of courts and prosecutors was withdrawn from the site, so that after a few days, a whole new proposal would return. In her statement, the Minister pointed out that in early 2008 an expert opinion of the Venice Commission was also obtained, but did not state that the Venice Commission had issued judgments at the expense of the proposal for this law, namely a number of criticisms on transitional and final provisions, particularly on the proposal for a law on the High Council of the Court and the Proposal for a Law on Judges. In the exposé of Mr Cvetkovic, who spoke about the judiciary as his term of office on July 7th this year, said, among other things, "The judicial reform will be accelerated with the goal of building an effective and independent judiciary and prosecution and strengthening the rule of law and legal certainty. The achievement of this objective implies the adoption of a series of laws that will be regulated by the judicial system in accordance with European standards and the interests of citizens. ''The President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero, said these changes are cosmetic and that because of the re-election of judges, politics will again affect the judiciary. A spokesman for the Belgrade District Court, Judge Maja Kovacevic-Tomic voiced reservations to the proposed network of courts, while Serbian Judges' Association President Mrs Dragana Boljevic noticed that the criteria for reducing the number of courts were unclear. So much for the independent judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. The government of Mr. Cvetkovic, apparently, announces a great deal with the judiciary, primarily with the judges, because there is a double deal coming with the judges, one through their re-election and the other through the regulation of the seat of the courts and prosecutors, so we have a double lustration ahead. These laws came to the Serbian Parliament after an emergency procedure. It is urgent that new parliamentary elections are being prepared in the Republic of Serbia. Tadic's coalition is preparing to confirm the presence of EULEX in Kosovo and Metohija in the coming days. They brought us with their economy to the line of common theater and folk cuisine, all in front of the litigation that awaits us before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Obviously, the judiciary is preparing for another electoral fraud in 2009, and even if Serbia gets candidate status for the European Union, then I think all the preconditions are met that Boris Tadic can call new elections. And then, coalition partners who will vote for this bill ask yourself whether you will be on that list and whether you will cross the censorship, and whether some parties will sit in this assembly again. We have an opportunity to hear from Mr. Boris Tadic about the main board of his party threatening some of the people who have lashed out in crime and corruption, we have repeatedly pointed out that Serbia has the best record of crime and corruption, and you are in no way trying and watering this crime so as not to increase as much as possible. Judges, prosecutors and police must do their job, not politicians from the stands and from the speakers of their main committees. Even so, Slobodan Milosevic used to do it with a rally and with some prey, threatened arrest, we had the chance, once it happened, for a minister from Kruševac who, after just a few days of his term, had found some money buried in the country. That's how it happened this time in Zrenjanin, but "one owner doesn't make spring," Mr. Tadic. President Tadic has also resented courts for mild criminal policies. Namely, he's established a court account, and probably no verdict has ever been passed before. The most interesting thing was what was most interesting on 29 October this year, it was a debate conducted by Mrs Sonja Licht, when even representatives of NGOs, who deal much more with politics than some political parties, had serious objections to this set of laws, but had no heart to say so at the rally. To reform justice, it is necessary, first of all, to modernise law studies. Unfortunately, at some universities there are teachers who don't even know how to handle computers, who nobody quotes except their assistants who fight to get master's, doctoral, dissertation from these teachers, and unfortunately, law students don't learn more from the best. The best example for that is Kragueva University. The minister said the law would ban the influence of public use and influence through public information funds. It is obvious that courts work under pressure from a piece of the press, which conducts investigations, recommends evidence and convictions. How many times in the media have we heard the premeditated verdict before the verdict itself? Media are writing indictments and produce events, unfortunately, in the country of Serbia. As a criterion for the education of the basic court, criteria for geographical distances, development of the travel network and concentration of the population were taken. In order to assess all these effects of this law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors, we do not consider that a detailed analysis of the necessary activities from the funds needed for the planned changes, the order of implementation of the activities and the real deadlines for this. The DSS Group has submitted a series of amendments, and I believe that in the next 10 days, when the debate is in particular, you will have the opportunity to hear all about it. It is a completely incorrect claim that these laws achieve a more rational network of courts. First of all, it's a political issue that you didn't properly formulate and shape it well. When you close a court, a health center, a school in small towns, those border areas remain empty. If that is the desire of the ruling coalition to leave certain spaces in the Republic of Serbia to be released, then we understand you but we will not agree to that and we will make that clear from this pay phone. The draft law on seats and areas of courts cannot be corrected by amendments. We tried that because it's an obligation to our voters. It cannot be corrected by amendments because apparently this bill was written by people who did not spend the day in the judiciary and who have no experience in the courts, but from some student benches, trainee offices came to the Ministry and moved to write seven serious laws that need to be reformed by the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. Appeal courts referred to in the 6th proposed law in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac may be a good solution, but imagine only that one party from Brodarev, if you know where Brodarevo or Prepolje, since there were almost local elections, should travel to Belgrade for an appeal, alongside Užica, Čačka, Kragujevac, Kralje and all these cities, therefore, have to travel to Belgrade. Also, we have a situation that a Librarian who is only half an hour away from Nis is headed to Belgrade. So, citizens who want to exercise their right will not go to Nis, but will have to travel to Belgrade. You're reducing 138 courts to 34 courts and we're saying here that it's cost reduction and cost rationalization. Where are the costs of vehicles, fuel, judges, their journals, drivers, interpreters, artists, all those parties, witnesses who participate in one procedure? So I don't think that argument exists and that there's no right way to talk about it the way you set it. Also, what if a car accident occurs, an investigative judge from Cačka should travel to Gornja Milanovac, Guč, Ivanjic, and in January, after 2 hours he comes to the scene and what leads will he find and what record will he make? Do you consider the need to approach the introduction of temporary measures that must take place immediately at certain times? Is it a ban on someone to go through a land over someone else's property? When a husband or wife throws out a nicer or stronger half of her apartment and the court has to react immediately, will we wait for the judge two hours to come, travel, to carry it out? Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the citizens of Serbia are behind you. You should vote that many courts in Serbia, in practice, end their jurisdiction, or cease to function, not only the appeals but the municipal courts that are the core, practically, and without which a small environment cannot function normally. You also send a message to citizens living in these cities and foreign investors who cannot exercise their rights in cities where they want to invest their resources and start certain production capacities. The DSS will be determined against the proposed laws and will vote against it in the voting day. Please, in the end, just so that you don't forget that judges in Serbia are doing their job with honor and integrity, and not as it was in the 1990s that incompetent men and women who got married well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6837	National MP Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, given the proposed laws on reform of the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia, I would like to point out that in Serbia it has become a major and controversial issue to which judicial authority and control of the judiciary will belong, which means both judicial and prosecutorial functions. In the capitalist system, capitalists have always advocated the use of rights as an instrument and means to exercise the rights of subjects in relation to the crown. If it is true that the wisest people usually create the right, then it is true that this right should be interpreted and applied by the strongest, fighting for judicial independence. When it comes to gaining the independence of the English judiciary, I just want to direct and remind myself of the parallel right. The independent personality of Lord Edward Cook, he's an inevitable personality. However, the past has not been forgotten, so it remains recorded that in the ninth century, during just one year, Saxon King Alfred sentenced 44 judges to hanging, so three to four months, for the murders they committed by their wrong judgments. I ask the question – has our judiciary been thrown into the political arena? Yes, it is! First of all, from 1946 to today there was never such an influence of the executive authority on the judiciary as it was during this period. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the position of the judiciary in times of crisis in which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live? In times of crisis, ladies and gentlemen, there are sometimes serious conflicts between the judicial and executive authorities or the legislative authorities, especially in systems where major changes are made, as these numerous bill proposals wish. In such a situation, the judges are in a very difficult position: either they will listen to executive power or they will respect the rights and freedoms of citizens! It's important to trust the courts. Justice must not only be done, but it must also be visible. The law is considered too serious to be left to judges alone. This is what poets say, but there are truths in reality. No institution can operate without the existence of responsibility in society. So the judges have power, but with power comes responsibility for its use and for its execution. Neither the judiciary, and especially the independent judiciary, can exist without judicial responsibility for failures, mistakes, and abuses. As for the reduction in the number of courts, I'd like to say that this is a deal with judges who need to be lustrated. Serbia today has extremely good experts, both criminal and civil rights. Moving a number of departments out of the seat and forming a state will cost a lot, 104 courts will be abolished, courts that mean a lot to citizens, and citizens will have to wait for days for justice and hours and hours, all day long, to travel to achieve their specific right in some court. Who was in the way of this justice system? He disturbed those who couldn't otherwise deal with non-experienceds in the judiciary. If lustration was to be carried out, and I don't think it was necessary, someone wanted it not only in the judiciary but also in other social life institutions, if the aim is to remove from the judiciary those suspected of being corrupt or unstructured, in that case there are instruments that are prescribed both by the Constitution and the law. They can be resolved but as individuals and not as such in the package, that the judge is totally re-exposed to the re-election. Re-election of judges is an unconstitutional category. Under the current Constitution, which ensures the continuity of the exercise of judicial functions, no one has the right, unless there is a change in the Constitution, to change that. Therefore, this is a deal with political inexperiences in the judiciary. Many judges, if these laws are passed, especially if they need to go to some other departments or judicial units, they will go, in my deep opinion, to be punished. They'll be punished, say, to go from Uzic to Tutin to trial. It is known that during the Informburo of Belgrade, some judges were transferred to Tutin, as well as some other politicians and officials who were not at the will of Josip Broz. I heard some opinions, and the minister said so, that corruption, bribery, and unfair trial can take place in small towns and cities because of great familiarity. That's not true! Here's an argument. Will Belgrade meet citizens with judges? It will. So that's not an explanation and that's not why we're being interpreted here right now. Ladies and gentlemen, for a short period of time, I can't go any further, and I'm going to put that in detail. Therefore, the re-election of judges is unconstitutional! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6839	Thank you. The word is Mr. Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6840	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: 'Who and with what authority is he in charge of negotiations on acceptance, legalization of the Eulex mission? ''This is a very important issue and reactions to these secret negotiations made by the DS apparently cause anxiety in the ruling coalition, so today the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Nada Kolundzija, made a shameful statement – that regarding Eulexa Kostunica and Thaci on the same side. The statement only speaks of what the DSS points to, that secret negotiations are being conducted to accept a mission to implement the constitution of the self-proclaimed false state of Kosovo and that police officers, judges and customs officers should implement those laws passed by the institutions of the false state. It is precisely what we have indicated in the DSS days, that accepting Eulex means accepting Kosovo's independence and that it is only there to implement those intentions of those countries that wanted EULEX to be accepted by this government, and that it is also how they influenced and factually formed this government, an independent Kosovo, that it is true what we pointed out for days. These secret negotiations, which are conducted far from the public's eyes, far from the National Assembly, should result in Serbia's capitulation and the fact that an independent Kosovo is recognised. We are convinced that a recent debate on the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we will all clearly point out what happened in the previous period, will show what the real intentions of the authorities are and what they want with what they are trying to do these days as a political victory, and in fact it is a great capitulation of Serbia. We are convinced that in this great debate what we pointed out will be supported by citizens and revealed what this government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6841	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6842	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the representatives of the Ministry, first of all, let me say something positive. In this set of judicial laws, there are standards that have respected some European standards and give some temporary and good solutions. That's one group of norms. The second group of norms is included in this set of judicial laws for reasons of compliance with the Constitution, and the LDP's position is well known, that we think the Constitution is bad, so neither are those standards that bring the alignment to, of course, we can't support it. But what is generally bad and why LDP cannot vote for these laws is the fact that there is absolutely no need for radical judicial reform, nor has these laws achieved rationalisation, nor has the efficiency of courts been achieved. The question simply arises – how did you get to this magic number 34 of the basic court? By what criteria? No one's explained it to us. Is that the population number? Is that the number of solved or pending cases? Also four appeals courts, is that enough? Whether a research procedure has been previously carried out regarding the needs of this society, and how effective we are, is sad, among other things, that this issue, this problem, has not been approached with enough seriousness. The situation is so serious that it may best speak an example that is known not only in the hall, but certainly every citizen is familiar with the case – a procedure led to the murder of soldiers Milovanovic and Jakovljevic. It's been four years. The procedure is only at the beginning. It's headed against the N.N. faces. I don't want to talk about court independence. I just know that the army here has shown how independent it is. For these reasons, since neither rationality nor efficiency nor any reform implemented in reforming courts, we cannot support, absolutely, this set of laws. What's sad, too, is the fact, it just makes no sense for me to talk, it's all so sad, and your movements are so small, so minimal that I'm not even motivated to tell you how disappointed I am with these laws. We will absolutely do nothing, especially if you consider the fact that who knows when we will be able to bring these questions back to the agenda in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6843	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic has a word. You have three minutes left, Mr. Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6844	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people, since there is little time left for the DSS Group, I will talk about the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. With the proposal of this law, the Proposer sends a clear message to us from KIM to withdraw the judiciary from KIM. It's something indisputable, I'll confirm the arguments and I'll tell you how many courts and prosecutors are currently in the territory of the Autonomous province of KIM and how much of this new law is foreseen. There are 23 mistrials, according to the new proposal only one. There are 17 basic courts, according to the new bill only one. There are five higher courts, according to the new bill only one. The commercial court, i.e. the Commercial Court, exists in Pristina based in the Kingdom, but unfortunately, this proposal dislocates it in Nis. The Major Criminal Court department existed in Pristina, the proposal shuts down and transfers to Nis's jurisdiction. When it comes to prosecutions, there are seven basic prosecutors, according to a new bill of law only one thing. As far as senior public prosecutors are concerned, there are five public prosecutors, under a new bill of law only one thing. With this proposal, the proposer rudely violated the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which connects all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in KIM. This proposal is not the case. I believe that the Republic of Serbia is definitely withdrawing and weak state institutions of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the judiciary, thus creating conditions for an illegal Eulex mission, which is the child of Ahtisaari's plan, to judge with its judges and prosecutors under the laws of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo. The DSS parliamentary group has tabled amendments to the bill, which offer rationality and savings on the one hand, and, on the other hand, meets the needs of the Serb and other population in KIM, which recognise the state of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6845	Thank you. The word has Mr. Goran Stefanovic, instead of Natasha Vukkovic, ZES.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6846	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, I have a special pleasure and I am glad that the moment has finally come in Serbia to discuss systemically important laws concerning judicial reform in Serbia. Since 2000, it has been thinking in this direction, the findings and facts exist, and the mood of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is in favour of the claim that, indeed, one root and serious reform is needed, as the justice ministry now approaches it. We have a number of facts that point out that this time the judiciary is not at the same level as is foreseen systematically in EU countries, in countries where legal certainty is guaranteed both physically and legally, certainly in those systems as Serbia should one day have. I'm not going to repeat what goes into favour of the claim that we should vote on these bill proposals, as has been said by some colleagues. I would certainly like to refer to certain details highlighted by the opposition's representatives, above all, regarding the abolition of certain municipal courts and their authority at the level of the primary judicial units. Certainly, the claim that justice to Serbian citizens in those municipalities, above all, to smaller municipalities, where municipal courts and courts are abolished, will be inaccessible, not accurate, given that these judicial units will perform the functions of municipal courts, that they will act and have judicial days, that judges will, by principle and by the mechanism of random determination from the judicial administration of the basic court, and the rotation of certain courts, receive judges who will be specialised in certain areas, who will be unknown to these small areas, which will contribute to a more efficient and better court procedure, whether in criminal or litigation, it is not important. Certainly and work on training and specialised judges will contribute to the fact that certain procedures that we have the opportunity to appreciate and see that they last indefinitely and to see that really justice can be long at this time, is not appropriate for a society that predicates one serious development and, in that case, we are forced to take this job seriously and to bring this reform to an end. What, as a fact, I want to point out, which refers to the draft law on the regulation of courts, which is not highlighted here by the representatives of the position, is certainly the fact that the right of those best judicial interns, who pass the judicial exam with the best assessment, the law itself, is recognised by the provision of the law, are granted the right to establish a working relationship for an indefinite period of time after having passed the judicial examination, i.e. they will be admitted to the place of judicial assistant in that court where they worked. This gives the opportunity to those who are the best, young people who consistently and responsibly want to apply the law, and all in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Given that we have the opportunity to discuss and regulate courts, in terms of organisation and in terms of territorial organisation and jurisdiction, I would like to say that, given that economic courts, in the context of the overall reorganisation of economic courts, we have one amendment that we will try to agree with the representatives of the Ministry. Yes, also, one unit of the Chamber of Commerce in Leskovac works in Vranje, given that we have great needs and that one of the superior objectives of the informal Association of Private Entrepreneurs, which seeks to develop the Pcinj County, is the formation of the Department of the Court of Commerce of Leskovec, with the days in question in Vranje, not as with the days in question only in some commercial offences. I think it is crucial for the development of the Pcinj County, General Vranje, as the centre of the Pcinj County, and in that sense, I, as a Pcinj County MP, will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6847	Thank you. Vice President, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, many MPs, colleagues from the SRS and the DSS spoke individually about cases of pointless suspension of the courts of general jurisdiction, i.e. basic municipal courts, and in that list, between 34 and 100 and something, we would lose a lot of time. Each of us, from our neighborhood, will mention a case from our midst. I'm going to mention the Arangelian, because the court in Arangelovac was founded in 1953. You will honor the DS and your coalition partners of the citizens of Arangelovac in the year of Jubilee, which is the following year, 150 years since Milos Obrenović of two inhabited places, Vrbice and Bukovika, created the city of Arangelovac, and previously his indemnity, the Old Building destroyed, is now winter, will complete the building, maltenes, to collapse. And now you're terminating a court where over 50 people work, nine judges, one prosecutor, three assistants and, of course, other administrations. On the other hand, you justify this rationality, efficiency and you call for Spain and other countries, not taking care that, as one of the colleagues here said, the second-degree existence of the district court was established in Serbia nearly two centuries ago, ahead of the adoption of the first Sretenjski Constitution in Kragujevac in 1835. That makes sense to all of us, as well as to the citizens of Serbia, that the DS is decommissioning all branches of government, legislatively, we see it on our own case, executives, there is nothing to talk about. Because this one across the street, dictator Boris Tadic, commands the government of Serbia, and you have begun to destroy and degrade judges and you are best at trying, and here is today advocating this lustration process, as it is professor. The sheath sneeredly spoke 'lusterism'. If you could have done it after October 5th, you'd have people on the street, hanged, just because they didn't like you, and these are people who didn't belong to what you advocated. As things stand, I'm sorry that the gentleman came out, you're going back to your colleague Konstantinovic, and now I'm going to use the time of the SRS, to dedicate what you've today called a settled court practice, that she doesn't have practical application, so this law will help, and it creates certain legal uncertainty. Legal uncertainty in Serbia creates, Mr. Konstantinovic, and you, too, my colleague Nikolic, to say, because, as with the lawyer, I have talked about this case, I have a concrete example, and where you will be able to set a better example for the citizens of Serbia – the president of a district court directly connected with someone who calls himself a politician, that is. So, Miroljub Tomic, president of the Kragujeva District Court, whose election we have challenged, colleague Krasic and my smallness, several years ago, who is a candidate for the President of the Court of Appeal, and we can also talk about it, but I don't have time, why there are appeals courts in Serbia and what their role will be, therefore, in a direct relationship with Tomislav Nikolic, or tried to kidnap, the scandalous judgment of the 10th SRS parliamentary group in Kragujevac. If you wish now, my colleague Konstantinović, to list to you that the courts in Loznica, Vranj, Smederev, Novi Sad, Sapac, etc., the latest in Pozarevec, according to the settled case-law, which you are referring to today, have decided in accordance with the Law on Local Elections and Art. 47th and 49th, and only the District Court in Kragujevac did not do so in the appeal procedure of the SRS councilman Dragan Žikic for 10 terms, following the scandalous decision of the Kragujevac City Assembly, come on, come out, I gave you the right to a replica, so tell me how you interpret it and whether it is normal for you! What I will also give you, both you and my colleague, Mikovic, are two requests submitted on behalf of the SRS by the vice president, Mr Dragan Todorovic. First of all, we have to resort to it now, and then we'll see, we'll use all the political resources we can get. This is the legal path, because unlike you, we respect the Constitution and the law, and you hold such judges who are completely criminalised, like Tomic. It will only be discussed extensively and extensively, not only in connection with this affair and the connection with Nikolic, but also other cases on which they work, as far as I know, and the MUP. Now, nice, let's see, colleague Konstantinović, as possible, if the state is legal and if you do this reform of the judiciary, we must, and Mr. Todorovic, from the Republic Public Prosecutor, and it is, by chance, that unfortunate Radovanović from Kragujevac, so that when Miroljub Tomic is, you see that they are all well connected, so they all go to the hacende, i.e. to Bajčetin on lambs, to pigs, to drink, to eat, to enjoy, and then return to the court and tell the judges – these two councils against whom Mr. Todorovic, on behalf of the SRS, have filed a criminal application, and these are the judicial majority of Radovan Nikolic, we do not know whether the cousin, the president, Vesna Cvetkovic and Milunke Cvetkovic, see two ladies of Cvetkovic in one major and in the other Obren Jezdić, the President of the Council of the Council, and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofSlovenia. The Republican public prosecutor hasn't been answering for 10 days. We're looking for, Madam President, I hope, if this prosecutor, in what we suspect, does his job, that we'll have an emergency session, with an emergency agenda, that these judges, which we have cited, will be taken away from our immunity and that criminal proceedings for abuse will be brought against them. We have sent a request to the Republic Public Prosecutor for the protection of legality, namely that the Supreme Court reacts in this case, on the basis of what was obtained by the Republic Public Prosecutor. We had to do this, as Mr Martinovic would say, it is not our job at all, to protect the will of the citizens and mandates won by the SRS, because if he were doing his job, so far we would have returned the mandates of the SRS to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or you would not be doing what you are doing. Therefore, the independence of the judiciary has nothing to do with it. The worst of the worst you've ever set up in management. What Verica Radeta said a million times from the pay phone, 99%, to go from both judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors and professional associates to decent and honest people, and when you have one Miroljub Tomic and when you have one Slobodan Radovanovic, both from Kragujevac, and this apostate from our party is from Kragujevac, then don't use any more minutes, not another second to tell us about the independence of the judiciary, the judiciary, of which there is nothing until the SRS takes the helm of the state into its own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6849	There's a word from the People's MP Mr. Shami. I'm sorry, there's no more time for your MP group. The word is Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another set of laws that aim to discipline and line up state authorities, in this case one branch of government should be disciplined and subordinated to another foreign government. Therefore, the judicial authority should be subject to the executive branch of power. Since you've brought together, almost, incompatible bill proposals, I'm going to try, given the shortness of time, just a few remarks to make, and when this law is in particular, then we're going to talk about it a lot more. For example, the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors, Article 5: "The election members make up six public prosecutors or deputy public prosecutors with permanent office, one of which is from the territory of autonomous provinces and two prominent and prominent lawyers with at least 15 years of experience in the profession, one of whom is a lawyer and another is a professor of law". First, a professor of law school, the moment students graduate from law school and leave the "yellow" house, if they finish it in Belgrade, or from any other university building, the relationship between, in scientific terms, the professor and the graduate students ceases. Its function is to teach students to become good lawyers. On the other hand, why a lawyer? The lawyer is the opposing foreign prosecutor in the process. What's a lawyer supposed to be doing here? He says: "Reputable prominent lawyers", let's say, Mr. Bosko Ristić is a respected, prominent lawyer for the DS. Although no property-legal relations between Serbia and Croatia have been resolved, there are over 250,000 refugees who were taken there, they came here with nothing, and now this prominent and prominent lawyer, related to the Borelli company, which was formed after the war on the property of the former "Borov", all the "Borov" facilities or returned or is in the return process, so that "Borelli" stays on the street. That's probably how you're gonna get a member of this council. As far as the bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is concerned, you've just made a story here that can't possibly be taken under the idea of common sense. We've had a lot of vessels anyway, we've had courts that worked anyway, not to say day and night. Anyway, we had two, three judges in the courtroom, now you've made two basic courts, so far there's five of them, so they've been overcrowded, I'm talking about Belgrade. You've made two basic courts, one for the city, one for the suburban area, and you've also made two prosecutors, and the president of the court or prosecutor will be in a position to be a general. You've created two mastodons that will be absolutely immobilized, unable to perform their basic function. On the one hand, the prosecutor must know his staff. You've put yourself in a position not to be so-called. Learning through practice will not be able to be conducted and will be interrupted. You know, when a graduate attorney comes to the D.A.'s office, except for what he knew from his textbook, he doesn't know anything else. He begins as an intern to learn the trade, which is, firstly, very difficult, very responsible, but is well-responsible, so first he goes to trial, after which he begins to process the cases easier, so harder and harder, and when he finishes his internship, he takes a judicial exam, starts to get cases as an expert associate, if he is chosen as an expert associate, he starts getting harder cases and prepares to be a deputy public prosecutor at one point. What's in court is the president of the court, it's in the prosecutor's office. This way you'll have a prosecutor who will have 120 deputies, with 200-300 of what expert associates, as an intern. Who will train them? Who will prepare them? How will he have insight into the situation, how will he know which of these, say, 100 associates should be produced the next day when a job for a public prosecutor is opened? So far, the D.A.'s had a situation in his hands, like this, gone. You have done something that will not work, or will function at the expense of, above all, the citizens of Serbia. Secondly, all insubordination, all those who did not listen to you, but who were judged by justice and by law, can expect, in this case, to be lustrated, or because of the reduction of courts, because of the reduction in the scope of the work, even though the judicial function is permanent and the Constitution is regulated, this is how you will take advantage of the opportunity to resolve the issue of inappropriate judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6851	Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6852	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know how you missed it, but I think Article 136 would. The Rules of Procedure finally had to be applied somehow to the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That applies to the explanation. It's simply incomprehensible what the government is, when it proposes some law, ready and able to put into the bill. If you have had the opportunity to read the reasoning of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, then on the seventh side of the argument - which are the reasons for the adoption of the laws by emergency procedure, and the reasons are those set out in the Constitutional Law, it seems to me that they are members of 6, 7 and 15. Constitutional law, which means that by the end of the year, the work of courts must be brought into line with the provisions of the new Constitution, and if you look at these solutions offered in the transitional and final provisions of the bill, if you start from Article 82, if not before, then to Article 96, then you will see that there are now some fairy tales for small children. We've been fighting for a judicial budget for six years. You're here talking about that budget you'll be thinking about after 1 January 2011. Look, it's something amazing, and then it's said that an emergency procedure is necessary, the funds are not needed this year. What are we actually doing here? I have to tell you that these solutions that you're offering here are the same ones that existed or similar to those of 2002. Let's jump, say hop, get some regulations, and when, well, the Jackna will be. I don't think we can pass those laws anymore. He comes out here, Konstantinovic, so he says, radical changes, fundamentally, now we're going to fix it, an efficient system, a network very efficient, there's going to be departments, there's going to be judicial units, the best judges, everything's going to be, and then we're going to look at the deadlines for it by 2011, and you're still making a new appearance of that council's "major old people". Those whom no one has chosen and checked whether the good judges should be elected by new judges. To all of this we add that stupid solution from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by which the National Assembly elects judges of trainees, elects judges who will be judges for three years, and chooses the High Council of Justice for permanence. Again, they're the ones whose knowledge-checking couldn't be done. Guys, these are terrible things! Just to support that a little bit, you won't get mad at me if I use it for another second. A few days ago, I got a solution from one of the distinguished judges of the Trade Court, please don't laugh. In his explanation, he stated that he was calling for Article 103. The law on litigation and says – you need to arrange a claim for a finding within the meaning of Article 188, and the lack is, you need to take care of the petition of the claim. Of course, everyone laughs, sees, a fool. What else to say about this man? They're not laughing because they don't know. ) Today, I received a notice from one of the deputies of the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, he says, and all sorts of things are listed there, and even a regulation on information of public importance, where criminal charges against Tomislav Nikolic are forwarded to the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. It's all done in courts, it's done in justice! And that's what you'd like to fix by 2011. A year?- I'm sorry. That's terrible. I think the reasons for the bill and the individual solutions are really bad. I don't know if with this explanation you can get someone to think about voting for this, except for this 126 guaranteed. Please, that, 126 guaranteed, no criteria. It's a criterion that can't exist. I suppose the Parliament must have common sense for the citizens who sent us here, not for the understanding of your leaders.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6853	National MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the package of judicial laws that lies ahead is, above all, important because of the need to speed up the process of European integration. In this sense, this is something that directly affects our citizens, their safety, the independence of the courts depends on the position of our citizens, and we can measure the degree of democracy in one society. Today in Serbia, we are building a completely new system of European values, and therefore it is necessary to define and edit the judiciary in a comprehensive way, to define it in a comprehensive way for a longer period of time, rather than some temporary solutions. The reform of the judicial system involves not only the adoption of a new legal framework, but also structural and organisational changes, but also the proper reorganisation of judicial authorities. The previous period identified the relevant problems and weaknesses of the judicial system that burdened our society. Here, first of all, I mean a complex and too wide system of courts, then, the inability to plan optimally, to determine the necessary budgets, but the inability to measure the results achieved by the courts. There is also a big problem and what is extremely large, and I really have an understanding, burdened our citizens, and it is an outdated, inefficient administration, as well as an excessive burden of administrative affairs on our judges. We have, of course, and mentioned the disproportionate schedule of judges in courts, too few judges in the respective courts, which led to their overload. We have an example of Mionica where one judge gets ten cases a month, and, on the other hand, in Valje, one judge gets 50 cases a month. So five times as much for the exact same salary. On the other hand, there are 290 cases in Belgrade in the first court, and on the other hand in the Fifth Court 114, so you compare it. Because of all this, this reform aims to move three key directions. First of all, the establishment of a new network of courts and a new way of functioning, then, a possible change in the number of judicial holders, with an adequate assessment of the High Council of the judiciary, where the majority of 11 members, seven of 11 members, are judges, but also changes in the number and structure of other judicial employees. Therefore, the main objectives of this reform are to increase independence, as well as transparency, accountability and efficiency. It is also important to mention that they are on the Internet presentations of the Ministry of Justice, so they are available to the general public. The views of the Supreme Court, the Republic Prosecutor's Office, the College of the President of District Courts, were also respected, then, the Society of Judges, the Prosecutors' Association and organised a number of expert discussions on the subject. As for the establishment of a new network of courts, this is, above all, a reduction in the number of basic courts, so far municipal, to 34, since the objections mainly came from our Serbian counterparts. I would just point out that this reduction is not only about Serbia, but also about Belgrade, where instead of the nine so far, we will have two basic courts, one for five city municipalities and one for all other suburban municipalities. Therefore, we will now have judicial units in every place where there has been a municipal court. They will be operated by relevant officials who will carry out the entire technical work. In that sense, our citizens will not have to go to places where the seat of the competent court is located. They're not exactly these, and maybe they should be called malicious comments, that citizens will have to travel tens of miles. The fundamental change is also an increase in the number of judicial assistants, so each judge will, for example, have one assistant, along with a dactylograph. This, along with the proper distribution of cases, will lead to increased efficiency of judges. Otherwise, what is the plan is for the first half of the judicial assistants to be determined by 1 January 2010, and the rest in the following year in accordance with the budget available. I would like to mention the significant impact of this reform on the elimination of so-called. The effect of the small environment, where due to the great pressure of the local community, some local tycoons, other stakeholders, we have one unobstructed and trial that is certainly not independent. Now we're going to remove it this way. We also have criminal courts, therefore, in all the places where the law enforcement authorities have been abolished so far, we will have the proper departments of criminal courts, and we have the assessment that we need to reduce the number of these judges. As far as basic public prosecutors are concerned, this is about a new and rational network of prosecutors, which will monitor the network of basic courts. So far, there is no need to reduce the number of prosecutorial functions. There are higher courts where the number of judges is also estimated to be reduced due to changes in jurisdiction and the establishment of appeals courts that assume part of the jurisdiction of the current district courts. Four appeals courts will be established, as mentioned, by the Supreme Cassation Court and the relevant courts of special jurisdiction. I would also mention that in the course of adaptation, the construction of appropriate facilities in which judicial authorities will be placed, so that these legal solutions would not, like some previous situations, remain a dead letter on paper, and that in one building, if possible, be found guilty and in another case. So the main objective of this reform is to increase efficiency, urgency, specialised courts, so that we don't have a situation, it's mentioned that in one court we have three judges and each one of them judges the guilt and litigation and the outsider procedure, so that's not a sustainable solution. The goal is also to improve access to justice for our citizens, which is probably the most important solution. It is not true that judges will be threatened and that they will lose their jobs only because of the downsizing of functions, only those who are unprofessional and unconscious will not have the opportunity to deal with the future in this business. Therefore, the coalition For Europe's Serbia, because this way reduces costs and because we will have more resources in the budget, and that is something that would interest our citizens, and perhaps we could also increase the wages from there, because the issue of combating corruption and judicial reform is one of the basic conditions for Serbia's further progress towards the EU, and the European Commission's report indicates the urgency and necessity of reform, because this was one of the key points of our coalition in the recent parliamentary elections, we will support this set of laws and call on this opportunity and representatives of other parties to do the same, because it is about being ready to take responsibility for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6855	Thank you. Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens have been full of reforms from one area or another for years, especially in the last eight years, when it comes to the judiciary. This is not the first time this bomb has been announced by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that the competent authorities will carry out some radical changes and reforms in the judicial system, so I remind, first of all, the citizens of Serbia and judges and all the employees in courts of appeals courts, to a cassation court, to two blockades of the judicial system in Serbia, when judges did not know what to do with the cases, who is the court responsible, who is the second-degree court. You remember the panic that existed in courts at the time and among the citizens who set deadlines for appeal, there was no telling who to appeal to. So it won't be any of what we're discussing today, or what's being announced in this way. We have one again, as you like to say, set of judicial laws, so you've reunited the agenda points so we're not able to say about every law what should be said. But that's why we Serbian radicals have submitted quite a number of amendments, just so we can, first of all, explain what is not good in these laws and what is the only justice system that could work, as well as how the judiciary should be arranged to be, indeed, in the interests of citizens and in the interests of all judicial employees. It's not good for some kind of reform, if it comes to them at all, to break over the weakest's back. First of all, I think of a large number of court administration employees, if that happens, but it's a long time to apply these laws, one more year and a half to wait and the question is whether conditions for the application of these laws will be created then, because twice so far, as I said, there were no such conditions. And if these laws were to be applied, a lot of people in the Serbian administration would be out of a job, and they barely survive working in the judiciary like this. The number of judges would increase, the number of cases would remain the same, the citizens would have to walk for miles, today some colleagues here say, not to walk, but to travel miles, miles to the district headquarters where there will be courts. One of the colleagues today said that it was not true because there will be some out-of-state departments, whatever they call them, but yet another colleague, who has prepared himself so well for this debate, made it clear that it takes time to move the offices, to move the receipts, to remove the archives. So, where you remove the courts, you're all from those places in the county headquarters and, of course, it must be to the detriment of citizens living in that territory. Only, Mrs Malovic, will I read one part of the letter sent to you by the president of the municipality of Strpce, Zvonko Mihajlovic, where he says, among other things, that it is not good that the court is lifted in Strpce, because those Serbs from Strpce expect to be founded there, strengthen and strengthen the institutions of the Serbian state, which is of course logical. It further says that – not to settle with such a state of affairs, I point out that it is completely unwarranted, unargumented and inappropriate for the municipality of Strpce to be left without its basic court, which should be responsible for the territories of the municipalities of Urosevac, Kačanik, Štimlje, Prizren, Gora, Suva Reka and Strpce, for the reason that in the newly established situation after 1999 the municipality of Strpce became a center for all these municipalities, i.e. the center of Prizren County. So it's one of the problems that deserves a more serious debate, and we'll have that debate when we talk in detail about these laws. This or similar case is both in Sjenica and Tutin, and in many other small places where, instead of what you have announced, even regional development, you leave those places without some basic characteristics and, in fact, a source of life. Because people in these small towns are mostly government employees, in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in the local self-government, and if you cut them off, then politics isn't good for you. We will talk, therefore, about amendments a lot, about all these proposals, like this, when you bring together three laws, it's impossible to mention any of them as I have now mentioned none of these laws, but I just want to say that we Serbian radicals advocate the continuity of the judicial function, for the independence of the judicial authorities, but certainly not as farce, as you suggest these laws, but truly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6857	Thank you. First, Mr. Zoran Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, also.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6858	Respected Presidency, respected citizens of Serbia, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure, violation of Parliament's dignity. First of all, I want to explain to the citizens why, among other things, the dignity of the congregation and from whom has been injured today. The Assembly's dignity was injured by the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. While we, or MPs of the National Assembly today, are discussing a set of judicial laws, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, dared to give a statement at the House of National Assembly that, the possibility of accepting Serbia's conditions regarding the EU mission in Kosovo, only Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci and Vojislav Kostunica and his DSS refused. It is not the DSS property of Vojislav Kostunica – it belongs to the citizens and 500,000 citizens voted for both Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS. It is very important, i.e. I would ask you to prevent these inappropriate comments from Members, who do not care about Kosovo at all, with your authority. Because there are people who care about KIM, about state integrity, and it's very embarrassing to know that I'm in an O.R. room with people who manipulate Serbian citizens, as it does, among other things, the head of the Nad Kolundzi parliamentary group. It is a very important fact that in response to Serbia's conditions regarding Eulex today, only Thaci, Kostunica and DSS refuse to do so -- Kolundzija told reporters in the Serbian Parliament. She asked – how did DSS and Kostunica find themselves on the same side with Thaci, and what does it say about DSS attacks, in fact, that Serbia will recognise independent Kosovo if it accepts EULEX? I am now telling you that you will get an answer to this question not only from me, but from other DSS deputies. It's a shame to talk like this! So, I'm talking to the citizens. Let the citizens try to compare Vojislav Kostunica with Hashim Thaci and I would like to see any Serbian citizen to whom it will go. Also, I call on citizens to compare Boris Tadic with Milo Djukanovic and see how many citizens can create this picture. So three resolutions have entered the Assembly since we gathered here in June. First, 108 MPs submitted the resolution on KIM – it never came to the agenda here. Also, the LDP submitted a resolution on KIM – and the resolution did not come to the agenda. The ruling majority handed over the resolution, i.e. entered the assembly procedure – with a resolution on the continuity of state policy. Whose policies? I suppose that's the policy led by then-Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica in two terms. Now we're coming to the clearing. So if you made this statement, then continuity with the state policy conducted by Vojislav Kostunica is gone. If that continuity is gone, then you know what that policy is. Here we talk about some six principles. Absolutely, the public, and we, as MPs, don't know what our authority is, our country, in the name of whom it has negotiated and we don't know who it is. Boris Tadic, as a government spokesman, as the government owner, and probably also the owner of the state, just like Milo Djukanovic, who owns Montenegro, tells us that he is only negotiating with the UN. But we can see that communication, at least directly, exists with KIM representatives, so-called. An independent Kosovo, and among other things, with Mr Hashim Thaci. So Boris Tadic communicates with Hashim Thaci, at least through the mediators. I apologize to the citizens – I'm a little excited because this offends. (President: Time) Insult, first of all, people who sincerely advocate state sovereignty and integrity. This is a very irresponsible and unserious statement, which should cover up, what DS, the government and the President of the Republic are intending to do. (President: Time) And that is – to surrender KIM, just as Milo Djukanovic did in Montenegro, as well as to present it as a national and state interest. It is the next phase that Serbian citizens should be convinced of. Know that precisely because of the continuity of the policy that the DSS has led, we will never agree to it! (President: Time) We won't agree to that and we'll never let you... To insult any member of the DSS. [[off microphone]] I'll get back to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6859	You'll get back to me. There is a word by Mrs Vojic-Markovic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure. Serbia's state and national policy is quite clear. It is quite clear, on several occasions and at the highest levels it is explained and also known to Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens have a consensus with all of us who are in favour of Kosovo being an integral part of Serbia. That's quite true. That's quite true, and we shouldn't share on that issue. Here you go, Mrs. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6860	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure for hurting the dignity of the Assembly and most of the people in this room. I will also appeal to the disputed statement by Parliament's Group President for European Serbia, Mrs Nada Kolundzija. I must say, it is very difficult to speak after my colleague, Zoran Nikolic, who I can fully stand behind, me and the DSS. My general impression is after this statement by Mrs. Kolundjia, a story known to this people for what she says, "Keep the thieves." What Mrs Kolundzhija said cannot be taken under what the president said - that we have a united view on Kosovo. Apparently, the DSS doesn't have the same attitude. There's a story here between what we're saying and what we're doing in the ruling coalition. There's a very big difference. There's nothing wrong with the story, and what's done is very dangerous. I mean, Mrs. Kolundjia, it's very early to see who's on whose side it is, especially because these free media of yours, and I'm calling for last night's "Polygraph" show, they're doing so well at your expense -- that you'll see who's on our side very soon. I want to point out another fact that every citizen of this country knows, which is that it is late autumn in Serbia and that soon it will snow in Serbia. Our people of wisdom say, "The snow will fall, so that every beast will show its mark." What is also significant is that your friends are talking about a December and that this game will be revealed and concluded that is clearly directed from the same source, or the same director of this story. So, just wait until December, and then we'll talk about every lead and he'll be so clear that between what you're saying and what you're doing there won't be a difference. There's something else I want to tell you. It is not only Vojislav Kostunica and DSS against the accommodation of Eulex. There are 70,000 Serbs living on KIM. Do you think it's a little 70,000 people who every day suffer for their lives and who know very well why it's important that Eulex doesn't enter this country and that he doesn't endanger what little human life and dignity they have on KIM? So it's very important that these and these statements are not given, because it's ugly to speak in advance. Let's show some patience, we'll see soon whose trail of "inhumane" will stink. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6861	He has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Mr. Zeljko Tomic, then Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6862	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, things like this probably can't be avoided. I'm referring to Article 104. It's an old DS manner, and it's based on that conjecture, the known maximum, that applies to the people, "the cup is watching, the meat is coming out." One thought, another story, the third one works – e, this is the Democratic Party. Just to remind you, we submitted a proposal last week to vote for mistrust with the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic, the Tribute, the bypass, or whatever you want to call it. We submitted this proposal – you did not want to include it. But you see for yourself, she's been working on her conscience, and you have to come to the media and look for Dad. When you're looking for "dad," you usually find "dad" -- it's an old saying and you need to know that. But what the public in Serbia needs to know is this. They have been secretly negotiating for months how, in what form, to give consent to the Eulex mission that would move across the KIM territory. But they would like to make another circle, not to turn out to be weak women – that is, this is the maneuver, and therefore they need, allegedly, some, Kobajagi, MPs. That's why no deal reached with Mrs. Hope Kolundji can apply, because it's only for two minutes, until she cheats on you and she boasts of what she's doing. I must warn the public in Serbia, and especially our citizens living in the KIM territory – by the ruling of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the SRS received mandates in the municipality of Leposavic. Last night, RIK refused to put into the agenda a point for the report to be submitted and to issue assurances to the new SRS committees. Nor has it been decided that you can use judicial protection, nothing, nothing. The RIK coalition, which is maintained by this outlaw group that has entrusted the SRS, has blocked it – you look forward to it, there is no problem. But the citizens of the Republic of Serbia must know, Boris Tadic and DS with coalition partners intend to put you to sleep in the media, in everyday life, and even on such topics as are now on the agenda of the National Assembly, in order to finish the dirtiest work in silence and darkness. This is what I am telling you to be informed, without the intention of scaring the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have nothing to fear them with, but just to inform them that they should be resilient, to believe in themselves, to believe in their own interests, to fight for the truth, to fight for justice and to fight in every place and to believe in the Republic of Serbia, to trust the Serbian people and the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6863	Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6864	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable fellow Members of the People, I appeal to Article 104 for how you, Madam President, interpreted your vision of state policy, and gave it in response to MP Zoran Nikolic, after his presentation. Allow me, I've written a stenogram of your words and now I quote you, and I'm not paraphrasing, "This country's politics is unique and we don't need to share." On that behalf, please, I ask you, I demand that you condemn a public statement that means nothing but a division of the question kim'. That statement was made by the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia at the House of National Assembly, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whose president you are. The statement represents nothing but a division, if compared to the DSS, identifies with Hashim Thaci. Then you are obliged to condemn such a statement, because that statement is a division. Why no KIM resolution is passed, any group of 108 MPs, whether LDP, or ruling party. The ruling coalition titled the resolution 'Resolution on State Continuity'. Is EULEX a matter of state continuity? Is there a Eulex in any resolution we've all brought together in the past and the previous term of office? Was it about Eulex or something, or was it just in Ahtisaari's plan? It was only in Ahtisaari's plan. In no resolution, which we have brought to the large majority, even with the number of MPs present, and today we cannot find a common language. So, what? There are divisions. We were able to achieve that unity. We sat down with everyone, we made deals with everyone, most importantly, and now the top of the ruling party and coalitions are secretly being negotiated. There's no record of what's going on, no report from Brussels, Strasbourg, or anywhere else that comes with a story about Eulex. That's what you never talk about. And Eulex is highly installed in Kosovo. If they have already entered a small door past the will of the officials of the Republic of Serbia, they are now entering a large door and it is known who is responsible for it today – Boris Tadic and the top of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6865	Mrs. Donka Banovic, then Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6866	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of Article 104. So, a violation of the Assembly's dignity by two grounds: the first basis is that a group of 86 MPs signed a request to discuss and discuss the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia at this session, which was first next. So our intention was to open a serious debate in this house and talk about everything that is going on in Serbia, which has not been notified by the MPs, let alone the citizens. You, cleverly manipulating the words, have just avoided a serious debate and debate at the first next session, among other things, what Boris Tadic and his phantom or fantastic negotiating team are negotiating, what is being negotiated and what is expected to be sold by KIM. That you're trying to cloud the eyes of Serbian citizens about that EULEX is not a mission that is being installed to make Kosovo an independent republic, that's your problem. Secondly, the dignity of this statement by Mrs. Hope Kolundjia has been injured. While we are sitting here seriously discussing a very important set of laws, Mrs. Kolundzhija comes out and blinks against the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica with Thaci. This is once again proof that you are not worth negotiating with. Today was the day before the lady found it appropriate to compare the DSS and Vojislav Kostunica with Thaci. I am going back to that question -- why don't you open the debate here, let Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and the president of this country come over and tell us what he's negotiating, who authorized him. It'll all end in December and it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6867	Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6868	President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, I was delighted today, it was beginning to take it seriously. But, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you are insecure, you are immature, the head of your parliamentary group is an immature person, an observer. That's what I'm responsible for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6869	Please, Mr. Ilic, just keep an eye on the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6870	Please, Madam President, I want to speak, as she did today and sown the statements she made, I'm saying as a layman, but the doctors might check it out a little bit. There's a doctor in the O.R. To go out and compare the president of the state, Vojislav Kostunica, with Thaci, it's immature, it's unserious and it's sick! For this reason, we demand an apology from the parliamentary group for European Serbia. Is this your Europe, gentlemen, that's how you judge a person? I remember in 2000, I want to remind you, when we were sitting there looking for a person who could beat Milosevic, and your then boss, the late Zoran Djindjic said – people, only Kostunica. We've all talked, we've thought and said that's how it is. Today, to trample and rub the floor with the president of a serious state, says – once the president, always the president. [[Applause]] This is how you trampled Milosevic, so today you make the likes of him. We didn't step on him, we didn't rip the floor off with him and when we beat him. We were dignified. We respect our own country and all its presidents, all its officials, and we respect you, gentlemen. But you have to understand that it takes a little bit of respect for us too, to respect us, not to humiliate us or to wipe the floor with us. Compare any head of Serbia or former Yugoslavia with Thaci, it says of those who make such statements. [[Applause]] We love this country. You want Eulex to enter a small door. You explain to us that he will respect the Constitution and respect the government and the judiciary of the state. They will, but an independent Kosovo! That's the difference between us and you, that we respect our own Constitution and that we ask you to respect the Constitution of the state in which we live, which we ask you to respect the resolutions. This kind of question must be discussed by Parliament, not used in lies. To talk about being an increase, it's gonna be this, it's gonna be that?- I'm sorry. What's it gonna be, gentlemen? Well, let your tycoons lend you those 10% for the pensioners, it's an allowance for them, they're rich under your authority, and now let them help you and help you. I repeat, we want a style in Serbia, we want unity, we want a good country, we want a rule of law. Do not turn us off that path, see Serbia that you are immature to exercise power and must surely be punished in the first elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6871	People's MP Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6872	Dear Madam President, citizens of Serbia, I advertise violation of Rules of Procedure 104. The dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been injured by saying that Mrs. Nada Kolundji is an observer. For several years now, I have been watching Mrs. Nada Kolundji and I have observed a decent, cultural, educated woman, a woman who has been measured, who is an example of how the MP should behave, and I am very proud of every statement made by Mrs. Nada Kolundji, and there is no reason to be ashamed or to bend my head in front of the statements made by Mrs. Nada Kolundji or anyone from the DS in this room, nor do I have reason to open the controversy here about any MP or quality of DS MPs or coalition for European Serbia. By the one who wants to measure us and measure us, I can say to look at the traffic light from Vranjska Banja, Književec, Ruma, Prepolje, we were measured by citizens all, me, and Nada Kolundzija, both DS and Boris Tadic. Don't open these topics. Today we're talking about a set of judicial laws. Please bring this debate to an end. There will be an opportunity to discuss Kosovo. You have applied for one resolution and we will put it on the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and there is no need... I can see that there are some nods here. It's easy to nod with an empty head. Please, here in this room, return the dignity of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6873	Mr. Milivojevic, please take care of the way you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6874	Indeed, I ask that we return the debate to the course in which it is to go, and I ask that we do not qualify the MPs here in one way or another, because we can bring down here the level of this parliamentary debate to whatever we want, but I do not think that the benefits do not have any citizens, or anyone in this country. Please, let us stick to the Rules of Procedure and preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6875	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic, then Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6876	I must thank Mrs. President of the Assembly for noticing that during Mr. Milivojevic's exposure, you watched closely. So, we opened the topic here based on a statement by the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. If you wanted to speak for her, then you should've put on some blue wig, I believe it would look nice on you, so maybe we'd think she was talking about Hope Kolundji out of you. I ask, does the Head of Parliament have the elemental courage to say what she said in the hall of this National Assembly about this pay phone? Again, I would ask MPs of the ruling majority not to receive inappropriately and not to call for results in Vranjska Banja, in Prijepolje, Knjižvac, because they are local elections. Here, you won the local elections, you got the most votes and the most mandates. And you've paved a lot, you've shared a lot of packages, but that's not the point now. We're talking about the state here. With all the media every day we hear stories about the diplomatic victories of this country. The more diplomatic victory between DS and Boris Tadic, the lower our country. Then you start with nothing caused by this brutal attack on Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS. That speaks of your unclean conscience. We'll see what's right behind the hill, and the next thing we know, we'll see. It is clear to everyone that the Eulex mission should take over both the judiciary and the police and customs. It must enforce one's laws, not enforce the laws of Serbia, or if it will, then I urge Mrs. Nada Kolundji to come out for this pay phone, if she has the courage, and to announce it to the public. I claim it's the opposite, that the Eulex mission will enforce the laws of the so-called. The independent state of Kosovo and that it is a small door to recognise Kosovo's independence. That's what this government does to us. That is why there is a partnership between Boris Tadic and Milo Djukanovic. And Milo Djukanovic wins in Niksic, wins in Rojajs, wins in which place, but it has nothing to do with what he did. History will judge both us and you. My task, my feeling is never to reconcile with the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija independence and to fight those who want to do so. I will tell you, Madam President, that three resolutions have entered this assembly procedure, that you have not put one on the agenda, that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija held only a constitutive session. Why? Because the ruling majority MPs don't come to that session and spoil the quorum, because the president of the KIM Committee, Mr Pelevic, also resigned 15 days ago, so we don't even have a president of the KIM Committee. Think about it, Madam President, who is destroying the reputation of this assembly and do not call here for unity, because we are in power while we are in power, and now that we are in opposition to all our resources to invest exactly in national and state unity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, but someone is trying on a perfidan, I would say, in a very subtle way to sell a cowardly egg to this people. That's what the DS is doing, and I'm saying it right here, because both today and Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS MPs and all members of the DSS can look their citizens in the eye, and you're on the right track, so you'll never be able to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6877	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word, and then Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6878	I would address Mr. People's MP who came out to replicate and warned us that we were insulting Parliament's dignity, and then turned to the whole right side and said that we were having hollow heads. Mr. People's Parliament, I don't know what you're looking for in this House. You play here, I won't say what now, and everybody knows what you're playing while you're walking around and we shouldn't say it again. Who are you representing here? The poor ones who chose you, and they will come with you far away, as you can see from the place where you come from. I suggest you do better than lecture us before you get here. Gentlemen, I want to bring an injustice here. You said you won four municipalities. Congratulations, you won. But there's a miserable and miserable living in that Prepolje. That people don't have the bread to eat, there's only one private company down there that works and everything else doesn't work. We'd like to see you in action, what are you going to do in that poor Bookie. You destroyed it, developed its tourism on the Old Mountain, and in a year, the whole season, there were 100 skiers. You've spent billions and now you don't mention Old Mountain anymore. You've washed up a lot of money, you've made cablers no longer come to, you've promised infrastructure, and you've done nothing, gentlemen, you haven't! Not to talk about Ruma. It's a similar situation. It's easy to fool the people, say better life, 200 thousand jobs, and a monthly 5,000 families run out of bread. You fired only in one day in the Cačka 400 workers, the best companies in the old Yugoslavia, the Technical and Remont Institute. You're firing everything in order. People are out of a job. You promised pensions. That's not gonna happen. What you've given now should come back. You have exited the International Monetary Fund's control to spend 2,260,000,000 euros on the campaign. The world's most expensive campaign, led here to win Europe's Serbia. What did you bring to the people? Is that a better life? Collecting 60% just gas, PTT service 2.5 times, impulse 100%? Therefore, we are poor with you! The shorter you last – the better for this Serbia. To spoil so much in four months, I can't believe it. We had a stable dinar. We had a serious government. We had serious projects. We worked 4,000 kilometers of asphalt roads during my term of office, gentlemen. You, poor fellow, are about this bypass I've worked for two years, you're supposed to pave here, you're taking pictures every day, and you're about to start collectively going to the Circle, like your masterpiece, and that's six kilometers, gentlemen. I've done 85% of the work, and I've done 85% of the work, and I've done 85% of the work on the other side of the scrapbook to the Dobanovci. Therefore, Serbia will see what it has received from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6879	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6880	You don't have to raise your hand, Mr. Ilich. I'm not here on a TV duel with you, nor do I think I'm talking to you, I represent 22,000 Krusheve citizens who voted in favour of the European Serbia coalition. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I have to remind you that New Serbia in Krusevec has not crossed the censorship, so I find it difficult to discuss with you on local television, but I can do it here in this room. I don't want to bring this controversy down to the controversy between you and me. I'm not ashamed of you. I respect what you did for Serbia until 2000, and I think it was brave, and I'd be hypocritical now if I said you weren't involved in the Friday-October changes together with us. About what you did when you were in power and what I do when I'm in power let the citizens of Serbia say in the elections. I think it's much better than talking in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6881	National MP Miljan Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6882	Dear fellow MPs, reporting for breach of article 104. Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry Mr. Velimir Ilic went out of the O.R. Thanks for coming back. I have to tell you, you have the right to be angry because you're losing. I want you all to know that Mr. Ilic has not crossed the censorship into the scribe. I'd like to inform you that the DSS had the president of the Književec municipality in two terms. I want to remind you that Mr. Ilic said the Bookman was pathetic! Does that mean that people in the Book are miserable too? The scribe isn't pathetic. The scribe was much more miserable. The scribe would certainly have been much more developed if someone else had been the president of the municipality and he would have been, I'm confident and I guarantee it. You'd have been much more developed if you hadn't been a minister and had invested a little more in this book, you probably wouldn't have said today it was a miserable end and a miserable end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6883	Replica, Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6884	Your Honor, sir, I wanted to explain that you have promised towers and cities in the Book in time. You didn't let anyone near you, you kept everything under your control. You promised ski resorts, tourism, the rebirth of the village, that everything produced in the villages would be spent on these ski resorts, in those big centres where world skiers and skiers from all over the world would come to be satisfied with the benefits of the Old Mountain. And none of it was, my dear sir. He's standing there, that poor cableman, all set up. Something's started to build, nothing's finished. No company currently operates in Književec. People don't pay in the Book. The Italian who bought the shoe factory paid 7,000 dinars. Who can survive with 7,000 dinars a month?- I'm sorry. It's true that we didn't even bother there because you didn't let anyone come, you put it as your own territory and we didn't come. But we'll get there and we'll win, and we'll teach you how to do it. How's this town gonna bloom and go? Not with you and Bosca Nicic, surely, who offered himself to all parties, and now he is with you. You pick up all the junk that exists on the political scene, you're a dump of political waste, and it's all good for you. You're lucky to do that, but you don't have the results. You're always dating a new story. You went out with the action. There are 5 million people, enrolled by people of action, those who trusted you, and all that you do until one day the people take the pole, but it's not far. I know what it looks like when the people take the poles into their hands and start solving problems. So it's nice that you won, and it's nice that you promised again. People say, let's give them a little more chance, they're in power, but you won't be long and they won't be able to do that. The whole eastern Serbia is in trouble. You've been solving Bor since 2000, my friend, and you haven't solved anything. There's another tender you're calling. You're solving Majdanpek, and you haven't solved it again. I was, but Dinkic was for privatisation and led the finances, I made the roads and made Zaječar – Bor, and made the local roads, made all the villages in the Borska municipality, in the Zagreb municipality and the Obliznica around Zaječar. We'll do it again, if God will. Tell me, in eastern Serbia, what city does it work for you? None, sir! I said, misery and misery! People live badly. The village died, it's empty. Do you believe that in the municipality of Književec there is a village that has only one student of the founding and people prayed to him the other day – repeat this year, that we are going to have a bus for another year, because as soon as there are no founders stop running the bus. It's your policy. That's your future, European, of course, that you're talking about. Therefore, you must face the truth and look it in the eye, it is cruel and heavy, but eastern Serbia is in the biggest problems in its history. Don't do any business, sir, don't do anything. You who sit here, just vote as MPs, never went out looking for a problem to be solved. There's no problem solved there, and they have to be resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6885	The word has Miljan Rangelović
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6886	Dear colleagues, I apologize for reporting to the Rules of Procedure once again, simply, I have to react to such untruths. First of all, Mr. Ilic, the land price on the Old Mountain has gone up. A few years ago, no one could sell that land for anything. Now the people, the owners of that land, can say freely, and have made a fortune compared to what it was worth before. The land price jumps from year to year. You know how much worse we have now, how many tracks we have. You know you're building up there, or maybe you don't know because you didn't want to come up there and bring something for that town. You have to admit that, please. Don't talk about ski resorts anymore, about trails, because anyone with only two eyes can go and make sure you're telling the truth. Don't tell any more lies here, please. You said a political waste dump, so I don't know who two days ago didn't cross the censorship, who won't be in power again. As things stand, New Serbia will never be in power in Književec and so much about the deposit of political waste. I apologize to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6887	The SRS has 11 minutes left, Mr. Sreto Peric has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6888	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the SRS legal team, in considering the legislative proposals, have well studied the provisions of the Constitution that regulate this matter, as well as 11 members that regulate the judiciary in Serbia, without counting the high judicial council and the prosecution. I intended to talk about the way I see these legal proposals, what they mean in Serbia's justice system and Serbian citizens, but I also have to adapt my discussion to what was heard today, first of all, by the representatives of the position. Is the SRS Parliamentary Group for Reform in the Judicial System? Yes, it is. Of course, they are necessary, but the first member of the Constitution to regulate the principle in the judiciary says: "The judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". In Article 3. The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors stands for the timetable of the basic courts, a total of 34 were proposed and all municipalities in which the basic court would be listed. And in point 11, the mentioned Article 3, only one basic court for AP Kosovo and Metohija based in Kosovo Mitrovica is foreseen. You should have been with the Venice Commission, with all those you've talked to and put on the site a presentation of these legal regulations, to discuss the solution and this problem. You say you have strong diplomatic activity regarding the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija territory. This is an obvious example, of which none of you have spoken, that it is slowly given up and that is not at all thought. Members of the majority today spoke as if for the first time in power, as if they had come to power yesterday, say there are 4,300 outdated cases, sentences less than the legal minimum. As if you haven't been in power for eight years, but none of you have wanted to say, not even you, the secretary of state, will say that, that Nata Mesarevic said during the conduct of the process for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic – we received a verdict. She did not say, "We have reached a verdict; we have received a verdict." That's what nobody was talking about. You've forgotten about the thousand and one failure you've made so far. A large number of colleagues have collapsed on the judges of small municipal courts, noting that they are corrupt. You are, in fact, sending a signal that everyone, both professors, and cops, and health workers, who live in small environments, are corrupt, which is absolutely not true. Don't make a man's profession corrupt, I'm him. We have corrupt people in both small and large places, but also what you were talking about, given that time is short, we will have a debate on amendments to this set of laws, so we will talk about it. Madam Minister, you did not take care of specificities when creating a judicial network, or the number of residents, or the distance. Let me remind you, for example, the distance between the two basic courts is about 150 km - the main court in Užica and the basic court in Loznica, and the territory next to the river Drina, which, unfortunately, at this point represents the border, is 120 km. There are certain specificities that you have not taken care of and one court has been abolished, the court has remained, or, as you have called it, which has existed since 1930, when the Court of Appeal, through a first-degree court in Loznica on 29 November 1930, in Ljubovija, declared him court and today, according to this proposal, does not exist. You said that the judiciary would be more efficient, that it would be cheaper. None of this is true, because the investigative judge from any place, Baja's Garden or Love to go to Loznica, will have to come back in the day. We certainly won't have a more effective judiciary at this time. You've abandoned one principle. Just this one, so I'm done. ) The Constitution knows the municipalities and knows the administrative districts. There are no such courts. Even counterpart Vlatkovic, who is chairman of the Legislative Committee, says the municipal court is anachron. Whether it should be called now – basic Love, basic Ossetia or municipalities. If it exists in the Constitution - category of municipalities, then it is logical to call the municipal court and the administrative district to be the district court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6889	Thank you. Mr. Lightning, please. You've got five or six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6890	Ladies and gentlemen, through the arrangement and organisation of the judiciary, as well as through the choice of judges, you're making a kind of discontinuity, but it's absolutely not an accident. What do you want with that? You retain continuity in many places of political, economic, economic, legal life in this country. For example, continuity is maintained within the framework of privatisation, governments, congregations are changed, but continuity is maintained in privatisation. When it comes to the corruption of the people, when it comes to making money for the citizens and the state of continuity exists. And there in the judiciary, where there really should be continuity, you're making a kind of discontinuity, and that's because of the lustration of judges. I'm sure he's doing the lustration of judges, because those who aren't willing to, those who don't do what DS normally wants won't be elected at the next judge's election. It's clear what you want with it. You were able to implement a kind of internal reorganisation of the judiciary. You would certainly achieve the same, and perhaps a better effect than what you're trying to do now. Our concept of judicial arrangements is that in the first degree, municipal courts, and in certain cases county courts to judge in the first degree. Then, district courts as second-degree and finally, what the Constitution of Serbia knows, and that is, the Supreme Casation Court, with this Supreme Court of Cassation at the top of the judicial pyramid. Because he would unite complete court practice and theory and what the Supreme Cassation Court would actually prevent any legal anarchy, possibly, that would appear. That would be one of the highest legal institutions. I'd like to say a few words about one other thing. The draft law on areas and courts' seats provides for the abolition of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. It is the court, to remind, which covers the territory of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, where the largest distance from the municipality court seat is 65 km. The municipality's radius is 110 km. The municipality is 836 km square. There are 50,000 residents living in 63 inhabited areas. In the Municipality court in Gornji Milanovac, 12 judicial office holders act. Chronology of the judiciary in Gornji Milanovac – in 1808. Karadjordje was founded by the Mine Master of Mines, in 1824 by the Duke Milos Obrenović, the District Court of Cačka temporarily relocates to Brusnica, i.e. Gornja Milanovac. So, what the Turks haven't abolished, you have to stop now. It is clear to us that you respect neither Jubilee nor history, for this court celebrates 200 years of its existence. However, anything dating back to October 5th, you absolutely do not respect. Do you know what it means to abolish this and other courts, when people go to school, to court, they come in with respect. If you cut out their schools, if you abolish their court, believe that you cut off part of their being, part of them, part of their identity. That's what the West knows, and maybe that's what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6891	The SRS has two or three minutes left. Professor Žutić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6892	Dear MPs, I have spoken several times in the assembly about the anti-constitutional situation in the judiciary, the non-existent network of courts in Serbia that are or are not foreseen by the Constitution, but also the Law on Courts of 2001, which, however, was not in line with the 1991 Constitution. I was talking about a rogue name for the Supreme Cassation Court that is not in line with Serbian, but also European traditions. In the socialist past of this state and the national network of courts was incomplete, two-degree and incomplete, this one is now causing confusion in lawyers, but also in those of us who are not lawyers. A new termology appears in the names of courts for the first time in the history of the Serbian judiciary. For example, basic courts and higher courts are mentioned. The courts do not have a specific name for the territory for which they are responsible, but they are named according to the hierarchy on the scale of courts of importance. With respect to the period of self-government socialism, business courts are reintroduced, which will be established instead of commercial courts. The bill deletes Serbian traditional names for lower and more courts, municipal and districtal, who are insulted by the people, but also in the professional and scientific public, which represent the legal-administrative tradition of the Serbian state. In my speech, I thought of speaking in more detail, but since the 1838 Constitution of Serbia, which envisioned the formation of rural courts, then, of first-degree district and appeals courts. In the post-constitutional phase in the Principality of Serbia, administrative and judicial laws began to be passed. All these laws of the state tradition of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were passed in the mid-19th century. The Kingdom of Serbia had an exceptional legal tradition. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the network of courts remained largely unchanged, as was the case in the Kingdom of Serbia. In the socialist Yugoslavia, the 1945 court law envisions the formation of happy, district and supreme courts of federal units. So we have, however, a state-owned tradition, but this latest law on courts erases that part – the formation of higher and basic courts. Since I don't have much time to conclude. In my opinion, Serbia should fully preserve its rich judicial tradition by safeguarding judicial institutions that have been founded before. As a historian, I wonder – how in the future will Jubilee Monographs be written on rich judicial history, on Serbian municipal and district courts, when they are abolished by this law, become the terminology of faceless, basic and senior courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6893	Thank you. On the list of parliamentary groups no longer registered for the word, and we have spent time scheduled for discussion. I'm asking, before we conclude a joint principle search, does anyone else want a word? Mrs. Minister has a word, please, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6894	President-in-Office, the Honorable Representation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this principle debate on the law package on the agenda today, I felt it was necessary to present a few words to conclude this debate. A question has been raised here several times – was the expert public involved and was there at all a public or professional debate? I think it's about replacing the thesis and playing words. Since June 2007, the Ministry of Justice, whose team I have participated in since then, has been working under these laws. There was an expert debate and this expert debate was not only on two occasions, as stated, but has been several times. Since all these laws, which will be on the agenda tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, are part of a package of judicial laws, which are the law on the high council of the judiciary and the law on the state council of prosecutors, have just been developed by a working group of which were representatives of judicial functions, prosecutors, lawyers, and that the Ministry of Justice was solely as a technical body. That work version of the Justice Ministry has fully accepted, with minor or larger changes. Also, a public debate has been held following the release of expertise by the Venice Commission and giving opinions by the Society of Judges, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutors' Association. On this occasion, I will tell you that over 65 proposals proposed by the Serbian Judges' Society have been included by the Justice Ministry in these draft laws. It wasn't just debates that concerned the very text of the law. There were also public debates concerning a document which was also made by the Commission's working group on judicial reform, which is called – the basic principle for the development of system laws. Most of these provisions are in this very text of the law. I will only point out that the provisions concerning disciplinary responsibility, which you will have the opportunity to consider tomorrow in the framework of the draft law on judges and the draft law on the public prosecutor's office, have just been drawn up by this working group. As for the public debate, I would say that the issue of judicial reform has been on the agenda for more than eight years. Therefore, we cannot say that there was neither expert nor public debate. Also, the issue of jurisdiction of the courts and the public prosecutor's office has been raised here and that the jurisdiction may not be adequately covered by these texts of the law. I will say that the Justice Department has fully accepted the proposal that came from the judiciary itself. What the judiciary has proposed to be the jurisdiction of the primary, senior and other courts, the Ministry of Justice has fully accepted. What's the point of the courts? The purpose of the courts is to achieve the interests and rights of citizens. I'll tell you that European standards, as far as the duration of the procedure is concerned, if we talk about civil law matter for two years, if we're talking about criminal matter for a year. We can't say at this point that our criminal cases last for a year, or that civil cases last for two years. Unfortunately, they last for decades, which speaks enough about the efficiency of the judiciary. There was also a question of public concern. I will now, even though I have done this many times today, say that Serbian citizens will not be damaged at any time as regards access to the court. On the contrary, from what I have stated, by the concentration of courts and judges in one court, I am deeply convinced that the citizens will come to justice faster, because they will be more quickly scheduled for hearings, and the cases will be finished faster. Also, a question of national minorities has been asked. You will see tomorrow when we discuss the proposal for a law on judges that a constitutional provision that implies positive discrimination has been adopted in the proposal, where it is foreseen that there must be representation in those areas where there are national minorities within the judiciary and the prosecution. The right of national minorities to be realized is, of course, the language in which they will be tried. What is worrying is that there is no interpreter for Albanian language in any court in southern Serbia. It's something that we have to take care of and that can't exist in the future. The question was whether there was an analysis of the situation. Yes, the Justice Ministry, as I said, has analyzed the situation in the Serbian judiciary for over a year, precisely because we would not propose laws based on our own impression. More analysis has been made, and this time I will only mention the most important. A criminal policy analysis has been carried out, and we talked about it in public. I think that, more or less, the facts and conclusions that we have come to in terms of criminal policy are known. An analysis of the limitations of criminal prosecution and the limitations of judicial judgments has been carried out. So these are persons suspected of committing crimes, or who have been legally proven to have committed crimes, and who have not come under the threat of justice. There were objective circumstances for that, but I can say that in most cases there were no such circumstances. We've done an analysis of the length of the procedure. I've told you what European standards are, and I'm going to tell you that there are over 900 criminal cases being handled in Serbia for over 10 years. Now you can imagine the speed of justice and the determination of material truth, if one criminal object in Serbia lasts for 10 years, and we have such cases over 900. I know that this is a matter of both procedural laws and the Ministry of Justice and the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will contribute, in addition to these system laws, to better efficiency of the judiciary. It's pointed out here that the laws were quickly in the process. I will remind you of the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, which provides for judicial laws to be found in the parliamentary procedure at the second session of Parliament. I know that was impossible. As the Ministry of Justice, even last year, fully aware of the responsibilities and those facts, we have deviated from that deadline, precisely because the laws, when we propose them, are thoroughly prepared. There was also a question of trial in Belgrade. I am fully aware that Belgrade's basic court is bulky and implies a large number of judges. But what does that mean? There's gonna be a department specialization. We're going to have a criminal division, we're going to have a civil department, within the civil department, and there's probably going to be a family dispute department, an executive department. I am deeply convinced, as I have told this occasion, that citizens will come to justice faster and that the hearings will be set faster. There were also words about whether we needed to respect the Constitution. I may not fully agree with the Constitution, with regard to certain provisions concerning the judiciary, but as long as the Constitution is in force and as long as the laws are in force, which are voted in Parliament, and as far as the Constitution, which is confirmed in the referendum, as a representative of the executive authority and at the head of the Justice Ministry, I will fully respect them. As for the deadlines for downloading items, archives, employees, you will see in the transitional and final provisions that they are precisely set up. We've worked very long and hard on those deadlines, because we're just aware that the system is completely reorganized. We've been trying to keep it from getting to a halt in the process at all times. As far as the prosecution's structure is concerned, the question arises, since the prosecution is monitoring the structure as it exists in the basic courts, will it be effective? That's the answer I'm going to give through the question that I'm going to ask: what efficiency do the prosecutions now have that only have one prosecutor or one prosecutor and one deputy? Where is the case law, and how can we do so in a good way to get high-quality indictments or requests for an investigation? As far as lawmaking is concerned, we have looked at the experiences that exist in both countries in the environment and in EU or European countries. I will tell you that there is currently a debate in Croatia on the set of judicial laws and that the rationalisation of judicial authorities is under way. I had a chance to be in France recently, where we signed a co-operation agreement with the ministry and I'll tell you that's the same case in France. You will agree with me, unfortunately, that France has a much longer legal tradition and the formation of courts than we have, but they have decided that it is necessary and necessary for citizens to come to a rationalisation. In the end, I would conclude this with the fact that the Ministry of Justice, before proposing the laws, makes sure that there are technical and material conditions for the preparation of the law. I'll remind you that over the past eight years, this has not been the case. So laws were passed without precise financial analysis. You will find financial analysis on the website of the Justice Department. You can also see what a network of judicial authorities will look like and what their jurisdiction will look like. So, for the first time, we have prepared technical conditions for law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-11-0.u6895	I thank the Minister and her associates. I am concluding a joint principle search on the draft law on the regulation of courts, the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Mr. Nikolic, you haven't answered. I asked if anyone else wanted a word. You'll get your word tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 143 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. I welcome the Minister and them. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was first advertised by Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
