ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4146	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 144 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs, or more than one third of the MPs, are present in the hall at this time, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Jovan Ćosic, the head of justice ministry and Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the justice ministry. I welcome them. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the confiscation of the property of the PROSECTION FROM THE CRIME PART (Single) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4147	The objection refers to Article 27(3). Yesterday, during the day, you were replaced, Madam President, Vice-President of the Parliament of Gordana Komic, who, otherwise, chose to hold tracts about how we should behave. Its interpretations were usually twice as long as the presentation of the MPs themselves, where the MPs, the DSS, were, above all, rudely interrupted at one point, when they tried to point out the current event, to suspend traffic in front of the National Assembly building by students, who were rightly objected, because something which was obviously an agreement between the Student Organisation and the University was translated into an amendment to the Law on Higher Education, a single amendment, which was clearly agreed with the Ministry of Education, which should be humiliated and placed in an unequal position by a large number of students. They, as a consequence of the amendment, could never, however good students, at least all tens, have won from self-financing students' status as students who deserve budget funding. It was an actual topic, an actual event. We had a protest on the street. It is simply impossible in this way to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure and not to allow MP Nikola Lazic of the DSS to talk about it. What's there to protect, what's the interest in protecting? The ruling majority who supports the government, who has spent a hundred days in which she has done nothing?- I'm sorry. We have a prime minister who says it's great, and all of his powers are transferred to Boris Tadic, who finds it appropriate yesterday, to claim that EULEX is acceptable for Serbia under some three conditions, among other things, one of these conditions is that Eulex does not support Ahtisaari's plan. Well, Eulex was designed to implement Ahtisaari's plan. All Eulexa officials have so far declared, spokesman Eulexa said that the organisation's main goal is to support the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and 40 accompanying laws that, all in accordance with Ahtisaari's plan, are to bring, and that means, ladies and gentlemen, Kosovo's independence. How can something that has been done in one way, turn, by the will of Boris Tadic, or his ideas, into something else, or he fakes Serbian citizens? I'm afraid this is a different matter. What is being defended, whose interest is defended by strict application of the Rules of Procedure? The government of the Republic of Serbia, which has managed to be extremely socially irresponsible these last days, which has managed to increase the price of gas, announces an increase in the price of PTT services, which is trying to explain how it should be, as Boris Tadic announced again, instead of Mirko Cvetkovic, who is great, but does nothing...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4148	Mr. Aligrudice, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4149	I'm done. ... Announcing the unilateral application of the SAA, and this unilateral application will further jeopardise Serbia's economy and put into a very unpredictable position for all citizens of Serbia, above all, their economic and social position. If that's what the government's up for and that's the real reason why the vice president of the National Assembly is seducing discipline in the way she was misleading yesterday, it's an honor for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4150	I understand your need to point to current events, but there were practically no questions for me. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. What norms and suggests a member of the 25th Law? I'll quote, so don't count this time. "After the end of the hearing, the court makes a solution that adopts or rejects a request for temporary confiscation of property." Item 2: "Decision of the temporary confiscation of property contains data on the owner, description and legal name of the criminal offence, data on the assets to be seized, circumstances resulting in reasonable doubt that the property stems from a criminal offence, reasons justifying the need for temporary confiscation of the property and the time to be taken away". Paragraph 3: "By decision of Article 2, the court may leave to the owner part of the property, if the maintenance of the owner or the person he is obliged to maintain is questionable, in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act". Paragraph 4: "The decision of Article 1 will be delivered by the court to the owner, his defender, or the power of attorney, the public prosecutor and the Directorate". Ladies and gentlemen, the very definition of this crime is not appropriate. Why? The very name of this law – the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, is not in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code, and that, first of all, with Article 91.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4152	Gentlemen, please be quiet. It's simple, we can't hear Mr. Jojic. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4153	I would like to point out that the provisions of the proposed law are not in accordance with Articles 91 and 92. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the Criminal Code is a codification. We've been working on the Criminal Code and he's been brought in. This is the Law that we worked in the Federal Government in 2000 to adopt, later, the SRJ Assembly, and then the provisions of that code were transposed into the existing Criminal Code. So the provisions of this law are codified, the provisions of this incrimination, when it comes to crimes, are codified in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, it cannot be defined and said in the proposal for this law – the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, I guess, the confiscation of property committed by crime. That's what the newer Criminal Code prescribed, like I said. In Article 91, confiscation of assets, which is Chapter 7, the basis for confiscation of assets and property benefits – no one can retain the property benefit obtained by criminal acts, that is, Paragraph 1. Article 2 - The benefit of Article 1 shall be deducted under the conditions provided for in this Code and by a court decision establishing the execution of a criminal offence. Article 92 The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia norms both the conditions and the way of confiscation of property benefit. Now you have one illogicality. In the Criminal Code you have – a condition and a way of confiscation of property benefits, and this law, as a secondary law, proposes the confiscation of property derived from the criminal act. There's no consent to norms. There's a wide disposition of norms in the proposed law. Money, value items and any other property benefit obtained by a criminal offence will be taken from the perpetrator, and if the confiscation is not possible, the unsub will be obliged to pay the cash amount corresponding to the property benefit obtained. Item 2 of Article 92 The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia – the property benefit provided by the criminal act will also be deducted from the person to whom it has been transferred without compensation or with a fee that clearly does not correspond to the real value. Item 3 – if the property benefit for another has been obtained by a criminal act, that benefit will be taken away. Ladies and gentlemen, the provision of article 93 of the same law protects the rights of the damaged. So, when it is said - it will be subtracted from the owner of the property, it is not an appropriate definition of this provision. The property can't represent the property of a person who's been acquired by a felony. So, you take away objects, you take away both mobile and immovable things from a person who has gained some benefit by committing a crime. So there's no consent to norms here, norms are too wide when it comes to the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to Article 28 of the proposed law, it is not a clear definition, either, because it raises the question of when, in what conditions and how it will deal with the seized property. I ask the question, what happens when the suspension is determined by a solution and the indictment is not filed? Then what happens? In Article 27. The proposal for a law is said to be a temporary suspension until a decision on a request for permanent withdrawal has been made, and in Article 28, that this request... Please silence the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4154	Gentlemen, I will be forced to say measures in case the noise continues to be like this. Please allow us to hear from Mr Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4155	I ask the question, what happens when the suspension is determined by a decision, and the indictment is not filed? What's it gonna be, then? What's going on in that particular case? In Article 27 of the proposed law, ladies and gentlemen, it is said – temporary suspension is pending a decision on a request for permanent withdrawal. Is there any agreement here? There isn't. Article 28 suggests that the request for permanent withdrawal be submitted after the indictment has been brought into force. What does this mean? No later than one year from the lawfulness of the decision ending the criminal proceedings. What's this? Who can understand this? Who's going to apply this in practice? In what conflict situation will this regulation be found, contrary to and conflict with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code! According to Article 29(4), the request for permanent withdrawal shall be rejected and the suspension solution shall be rejected in the case of other judgments, liberating and refuting. This isn't well done. This isn't well-defined. This can't be applied. Those who make decisions on the confiscation of property will find themselves in an unembarkable situation and will not be able to apply this law, because each provision is unclear, inaccurate and one with the other is in conflict. In Article 28, the Proposer should have provided that, within three months of the completion of the investigation, the indictments are not filed, or the case brought before the defendant is dismissed, the investigating judge will abolish the decision to suspend the temporary confiscation of the assets referred to in Article 25(2) of this Act to which I have applied the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of criminal acts in secondary legislation will not succeed in a solution in the Republic of Serbia. We have more than 50 legal regulations that regulate criminal matter. What does this side-legislative look like? A codified code is being violated, because, as I said, the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law, which in force regulated the way and procedure with the seized property, i.e. the items taken from the offence. I ask the question, how will the judges now apply the provisions of this law when they have in force the unchanged and updated Code of Criminal Procedure or the applicable Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, many solutions in the proposed law are not appropriate. I'd just remind the MPs, most of them, who are lawyers, they know what it is when it's said to be the law. In a formal sense, the law is defined as a special written legal act, which is adopted by a special legislative body, under a special procedure. The place of law on the hierarchical scale of legal acts can be double – the law is either the highest legal act in legal processes in which there is no Constitution, or the second is in force. Since we have the Constitution, that we have the Criminal Code, that we have the Code of Criminal Procedure and that we have a number of other legal regulations relating to this area, so about 50 rules that take place, take over the provisions of criminal law, that creates a disorder in the application of the law, which is not in the regulated legal states, such as Germany, France, the Netherlands, Belgium, England, America, Wales, Ireland. I can tell you that when it comes to Italy, I mentioned Italy – this was one failed copy of the Italian corruption law. But it was a law that applied to the territory of Sicily. Well, it's not Serbia Sicily, sometimes what it was. We, therefore, have top law enforcement experts, we have good laws that regulate this area, but this creates a mess in law enforcement. This disorder will also be seen in the decision-making process of certain state authorities, above all, the judiciary - from the jurisdiction of the investigating judge, from the jurisdiction of the criminal council, from the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor. So there will be major conflicts, major contradictions and conflicts of certain legal regulations. The legal force of the law does not come from its content, but from its form, because it is brought by the highest state body, as its most important legal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4156	Mr. Jojic, you are in the subject, you quoted, but the time is already 15 minutes and 17 seconds. Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4157	I'll finish. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll just let me quote a few regulations that regulate, above all, a certain area when it comes to corruption. It was, I can tell you, and the reason that this law, as it is, is being passed. I ask the question – what will happen to those cases and those privatisations where corruption is the most corrupt? Your corruption is where the most money is. Second, where people with the most power are, there's your biggest corruption. Here, you see, please, just ask the question – will this law be possible to apply to the following companies: "Frikom", "Somboled", "Inteks Mladenov", "The Paper Factory Belgrade", "Jelen Do", "BIGZ", "Pablishment", "Diamant", "Dunavska", "Big Gradište", "Erdevik", "Stralovo", "Sremski Karlovci", "Podunavlje", "Bačka Palanka", "Milenim Insurance", then, sugars, ironworks, agricultural goods, agricultural enterprises, cooperatives? So let's see if this law can be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4158	Mr. Jojic, speak two minutes longer, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4159	Thank you. I will report in the course of the debate further, in relation to some of the provisions of this existing and proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4160	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word Mr. Sreto Peric, an MP, please. After him, he has the word Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, when we read the title of this law – the law on the confiscation of property arising from criminal acts, we were ready to rejoice, because, finally, the government is trying to protect the citizens of Serbia from those who obtain huge material benefits by doing crimes. However, given that 21 amendments have been filed, mostly. The left-hand side of this home, and if none were accepted, we could immediately assume and conclude what this is all about. That's what the amendments we filed on this bill say. You have seen how, therefore, legally very clear and well-founded, and related to the Criminal Code, counterpart Petar Jojic explained the amendment to Article 25. You are, in this way, in fact, encouraging new future perpetrators of crimes. How's that? Because in advance you guarantee that you will leave a part of the property acquired by committing crimes for necessary maintenance. Practically, you encourage some to commit crimes, but surely you will not be able to encourage the largest number of honest citizens of Serbia, who, although hard to live, seek to comply with the legal rules of the Serbian state. A colleague, Jadranka Vukovic, submitted an amendment to Article 27(1), saying that the temporary confiscation of assets is pending a decision on a request for permanent confiscation of assets. He suggests saying: "sustainable", i.e. saying "until a decision on a request for permanent confiscation of property" is made, replacing the words "until handing over to the Directorate of a solution to the permanent confiscation of assets". He says that for reasons not to create a time vacuum related to the seizure of that property. However, it is very interesting to ask a question – who will not be subject to this law? You're already making it clear that they won't apply to protected witnesses. We were deeply convinced that this law should be applied to both the port and the president of the Republic of Serbia. But you already say in advance who he will not apply to, despite what you have defined as Article 66, to whom this law will not apply. We know that it will not be applied to many more perpetrators of crime, which you stimulate, protect and encourage this kind of behavior. This law has been delayed in Article 67, where you said that the law would enter into force eight days after the day of publication in "The Official Messenger", and will not be applied, or will start to apply on 1 March 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you kidding? You make statements daily that the National Assembly is not doing its job. The government has received up-to-date and good grades, mostly one to one in two, according to the largest number of citizens who have been able to ask them a question about the assessment of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. In an explanation, which you use for every legislative proposal, you say it's an obligation, simply because of European integration, and you call for such laws to exist in the Netherlands, Belgium, Great Britain, Ireland. You do not have to call on these two first countries, the Netherlands and Belgium, because you have seen what opinion they have given on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So there's no need to do that. What would you do, would the legislative activity of this home be if, by any chance, we had joined or there was no European Union? I have a feeling you wouldn't even pass the laws. Will this law apply to those who deceive Serbian citizens daily? Let's just remember that in the previous session, the law on free share of shares was passed to Serbian citizens. It was precisely defined to whom the law would apply, i.e. who has the right to free action, and then, by the Government Regulation, was extended because the presidential elections preceded. To achieve the greatest effect, by false promises, through the law, the number has spread to a significant number of Serbian citizens. It is not enough for you now either, given the value of the actions that citizens should receive, and those on this day are 20 to 40 euros, so one of the vice-presidents of the government and Minister for Economy and Regional Development says the number of companies will also expand. Is that what local public enterprises are referring to, or perhaps by selling water in a large number of Serbian cities? When you said that implementing this law requires certain funds, they are about 80 million dinars, you say which body of those that are introduced by this law will be spent. I am afraid, given that this law will be selectively applied, or perhaps, to members or supporters of some political parties that do not make up power now, or perhaps not to blame or to the debtors, that you will find it difficult to provide the means to cover the costs of the body that will be set up by this law at the first stage. Will this law be able to apply to some courts in Serbia, first of all, I mean the judges of the District Court in Kragujevac, who do not respect positive legal rules and who, contrary to the decisions made by the district courts, make quite different decisions? Whether this law will apply, perhaps, to judges of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, where a student of Volonjac, who says he has graduated from the Faculty of Law and is soon planning and who knows how long he thinks in scientific calls, proposes to the council, even, from Mali Zvornik, small but large and beautiful, to press charges against the SRS on the Fourth Court and to make arguments that they were in legal error. Yesterday, counterpart Zoran Krasic explained in a very appropriate and understandable way what legal delusion means. Fellow Members of the People, I am a little surprised by your passivity in considering these legal proposals. Here, counterpart Nikola Novakovic, who led this assembly in a very good and appropriate manner yesterday, has no comment on these laws. Many of you, who I certainly know to be good legal experts, can comment in a good and meaningful way on these laws, not only lawyers, but other MPs. Your obligation, like us, the MP of the SRS, is to work in the interest of the citizens. When elections are held, then citizens do not choose the position and opposition, but choose their representatives to protect their interests in the best way in this high house. The moment you form power, when you give support to a government, your activity ceases. Do you have a passive relationship and you're obstructing, and I have to call Zoran Krasic again, because you're not talking about legal proposals that are on the agenda? Is it because of vanity or because of your condescending relationship with the government, which you should control that this law could be applied and that it would justify its good name, because we support all legislative proposals that lead to a broad action to combat crime and anything that is not good in the state of Serbia?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4162	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mr. Vladan Batic, then Mr. Sasa Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, 225 and 226. We have heard that the government will have a public session today and will boast at that public session with its epic results. The order would be and I demand that the prime minister come here and explain what the government has done well or bad in the last 100 days. This is a real attitude towards MPs and citizens of Serbia. We see that Mr. Cvetkovic gave himself an "A." I agree, if it's worth 5 to 10, then the score is fine, but it should answer our question why the gas cost 60%. Did the Russians raise the price of gas or did the importer do it? Who's the importer? What tycoon? What's his margin? To answer the question of the gas itself, or the energy arrangement when it will be built, where will it go, will it be highway and when will it start to work, because it's not "Aleibe's straw" that's being sold for good, to promise that a highway pipeline will pass through here? What about the Horgos-Požega highway concession? Why can't he break up? Who took the money, so the concessionist says, no problem, just give the money back? What about the enormous salaries in public enterprises and the boards of directors of public enterprises? While the masses of people barely make ends meet, wages are astronomical, as if these people live in Kuwait or in the United Arab Emirates. What about the false promise and responsibility that five million citizens will get, in the name of free shares, 1,000 euros each? There's got to be a responsibility. What about the false promise that Serbia will be a candidate for a member of the European Union by the end of the year? What about the false promise that by the end of the year we'll be on the white Schengen list and that our citizens will be able to travel without a visa? What about the phenomenon of fascism, hate speech, human rights violations, insults and threats by foreign states and their officials, praises, mithins, hepenses in honor of the Hague indictees, the enormous growth of crime and corruption? In all this, the interior minister hired Divac to be his consultant for sports, diaspora and international relations. This is the government that allegedly earned all the highest marks. You saw Milo Djukanovic, who was satanic from this pay phone last night, come to parliament at a difficult time for local government, answering the questions of MPs for hours. Well, imagine Cvetkovic, it's unimaginable, it's like science fiction, to come without the MPs asking him a lot of questions, with all that eloquence! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4164	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4165	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers and Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby declare the violation of Article 100 and of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, what you, Madam President, do not know, because it was happening at yesterday's session, chaired by Mr Novakovic and Mrs Gordana Komic, that, during the afternoon, I was advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure during the discussion on amendments to Article 7 of the Law in question, asking that Article 103 be respected that MPs do not depart from the agenda point and do not convert the discussion of amendments to a very precise law into explicit criticism and compromise political philosophy of liberalism. It was a sufficient trigger to launch an avalanche attack on my smallness and some MPs from the G 17 Plus Group, above all, on the mayor of Kragujevac, Mr Veroljub Stojanovic, on local self-government and the highest authority of local self-government, the City of Kragujevac Assembly. When I wanted to react, I was not allowed a word, because it was reportedly a replica on the line, although I do not understand what the right to the replica was acquired by such an incorrect debater at the occasion, which was, no less, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic. During the afternoon part of the debate, the thesis was elaborated until the threat of local self-government in Kragujevac, spoken from the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the vice-president of the National Assembly. I personally abstained from anger, which I have done since the beginning of this session, but when the previous speaker is the same subject, by mentioning the District Court in Kragujevac, it is my duty, from the point of view not only of the local self-government of the town of Kragujevac, but also of the political organisation "Together for Kragujevac", which is based on the affirmation of the idea of decentralisation of local self-government, explicitly reacting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4166	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4167	Allow it, it is crucial, the reason for Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's anger was motivated by the fact that the Kragujevac City Assembly, considering its regular session, on Friday, under the first item of the agenda, the decision to suspend, or to confirm the mandate of individual committees, because of a large number of committees abstained from voting and pleading, had not reached a decision to withdraw the mandate, so it had to conclude that the City Election Commission's proposals could not be carried out in the process of confirming the mandate, because the previous issue of withdrawing the mandate was not resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4168	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4169	Right after that session, the SRS councilman Mr. Zigic... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4170	Don't speak, it's the fifth minute, Mr. Milenic, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4171	I'll get back to you, I just have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4172	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4173	Mr. Chairman, unlike me, who am a debater, the previous speaker is a dilettant, political, in every sense of the word, and represents, indeed, for the Kragujevac City Assembly the shame and shame, because on the same day, the official messenger was printed, the town of Kragujevac, because such a decision was made, as this previous speaker said – abstention, in fact, the violation of the law and the Constitution of our country. The City Election Commission, where members of all political parties, seven graduates, led by the City Election Commission, is one of the legal experts of our city, Mrs Zorica Avramovic, unanimously made a decision on two points of the agenda, but this gentleman does not know it, so in the evening, visiting one of the local, or regional televisions, he confused the concepts and said it was one point on the agenda, not knowing how it read or proposed, as president of the Kragujevac City Assembly. First, it means that, on the basis of a unanimous decision by the City Election Commission, the Kragujevac City Assembly is to declare its term of office to former members and representatives of the SRS. The second item of the agenda was – confirming the mandate to the committees, the new ones, who were invited to attend the assembly session neatly, because they should be entered into the process of confirming their mandates. Of course, all this is politically motivated, as is this scandalous decision by the District Court in Kragujevac, which I spoke of yesterday, due to the unquestionable connection between Tomislav Nikolic and Miroslav Tomic, the president of the Kragujeva District Court. The epilogue of all this will be on higher court cases. I also warned Mrs. Minister yesterday, please, Madam Minister, to listen, since this is scandalous and precedent in our judiciary in these cases, because obviously we are just learning democracy, that the courts do not want to do their job securely, and individual judges, and so so does Mrs. Nikolic, perhaps in connection with Tomislav Nikolic, a cousin, I really don't know, a certain Radomirk, President of the Council, will get as much criminal charges today. And please, Madam Minister, as I have asked Mrs. Nada Kolundji to enter into the essence of this scandalous decision and to see that the court has acted contrary to the Law of Local Self-Government, or local elections. What more do you say? In Kragujevac, the SRS is the only right opposition political party to the group that has been gathered around Stevanovic, whose coalition includes both DS and SPS. The goal was, of course, Mr. Milenić, obviously the mayor of Kragujevac, to get into the process and their political decision, as Mr. Sladjan Rakic, chairman of the DS's Committee Group, later admitted to the process of breaking the law at the Parliament's session...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4174	Three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4175	I'm done. ... by means of a committee, or an attempt to withdraw the mandates. Mr. Milenić, if you consider this a threat, here, I will repeat to you again, the session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly, with the SRS' kidnapped mandates, the way you imagined it would not be. We'll use all the democratic means. We have a Rules of Procedure, we will use all possibilities, as the single strongest political organisation in Kragujevac, to prevent you from continuing to violate the Constitution and the law. Be assured that we are so hard a nut for you and for that whole bullument of yours, for your attempt to take away our strangers' mandates, that you will not be able to, even if that session lasted until the early mornings, whenever you schedule it, so easily with us to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4176	Four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4177	You, Madam Minister, as much as I call on you today to plead on this issue, and we will take, as I said, all legal means to protect the electoral will of the Kragujevac citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4178	I find that in four and a half minutes of Ms. Jovanovic's presentation, I have failed to identify which provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated, and for the replica, I apologize, Mr. Krasic wants to speak about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but he is not here. Then, in order, Mr. Sreto Peric, then Mr. Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must point this out, I am the MP from the list of SRS, the third term, for the first time, reporting for replication. Mr. Milenić, I love Kragujevac and I love all other places in big and beautiful Serbia and I haven't talked about the work of local self-government in the town of Kragujevac at all. I'm talking about a shameful and scandalous decision by the District Court in Kragujevac. Yesterday, I deeply believed that Honorable colleague Mirko Chikiriz resigned as a council member in the Kragujevac City Assembly for the reason that he wanted to include another number of councilors, in order to affirm or talk about his party's programme, and I respect that. However, I now conclude that Mr. Mirko Chikiriz resigned because he understood absolutely nothing as the president of the Kragujevac City Assembly. Believe me, many of us would be forced to apply for your shift, to sit there, or we would have to react otherwise. I really don't understand you. You never talked about the laws that are on the agenda. Anyway, you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but in one of your own ways. I'm not talking about the profession you do, it's an honorable profession, but you're trying to talk so nobody understands you alive.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4180	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sasa Milenić advertises the injury, so Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Chikiriz. Please, let's get back to the subject. He'll get the word to everyone who answered, so we can get back to the subject. For the quality of court rulings, I don't think the National Assembly is the place to discuss it, or the problems of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4181	I answered my word, because the problem is much bigger. I'm talking about threats to local self-government given from the position of speakers in the National Assembly, the very vice president of the National Assembly. That the matter should not be unclear to Members of Parliament, who do not have to know the mechanism of local self-government, when it comes to the issues mentioned in the confirmation, i.e. the withdrawal of mandates, unlike the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which accepts the mandates as a final fact, only agrees, more specifically, to receive the information it finds, according to the Law on Local Elections, the Assembly of Local Self-Government decides to withdraw and confirm the mandate. The congregation of the city of Kragujevac did not have an anti-GIK against itself, nor as a permanent working body, the Assembly's committee on mandate issues, but, precisely, as steps in the impeccable procedure of considering this serious issue, which ended with the issue being put on the agenda and the decision of the City Assembly on it. The district court, acting on the appeal of Mr Dragan Zikic of the SRS, found that there was no failure of the Kragujevac City Assembly to decide on these issues, no silence of the administration, but rather the City Assembly decided. The thing that is not understood is that what is legally guaranteed right cannot prejudge the outcome that makes freedom of use of that right uncertain. That can't be the basis for the heavy accusations of local self-government. The district court's decisions, if you ask me precisely, exactly the year Kragujevac marks 190 years from the first capital of modern Serbia, are merely confirming the Constitution and the law guaranteed the principle of parliamentaryism in local self-government, as well as the principle of independence of the judiciary, which are the fundamental values of this republic. But in this republic, the Vice-President of the National Assembly is threatening, specifically, local self-government in Serbia, perhaps, is the image and opportunity of a parliamentary group that is such a person for the vice-president is running. This over-plott tone of debauchery and drowsiness about everything that is some initial value that wants to develop in Serbia, local self-governments cannot tolerate, because they represent a value that requires protection from this high home as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4182	I don't remember threatening anyone. I warn Mr. Milenic of the words he says at the pay phone. I give my word to Mr. Zoran Krasic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4183	Mr. Novakovic, I have to call on Article 104, heavy heart, because I never refer to that member. You won't get the wrong idea that you've made a mistake. You can't make a mistake, you can't make a mistake, you can't make a mistake. You can't make a mistake. You can't make a mistake. You can't make a mistake. We had opportunities to see a sophisticated form of insult to the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not just MPs in the National Assembly. For the sake of the public, some things need to be made clear. The National Assembly is a place where they should stamp and criticize socially harmful and mentally ill phenomena. One of these is certainly what happens to our judiciary, where in the same legal situation, two district courts make different court decisions. It's the beginning and end of everything that was talked about yesterday and now there's no need to spread the subject, since we respect your advice on the legal path. For the public, it must be known that yesterday, during this debate, Mrs. Comic, taking care of the Business as her favorite child, has gone a little too far. She exaggerated by saying that some who pretend to be MPs had given the word to the council, so a man came out to talk about being threatened, coerced, went to court to sign something that was in accordance with the law. By the logic of the matter, Mrs Comic had to warn him and say – the legal path is to file a criminal report, or to prosecute whoever was committing the threat. Mrs. Comić had more fun with whether this man had "colleston" hair color, four or five. The debate was fruitful yesterday. We've learned that Bologna works before time. That's how we learned that one MP managed to graduate, became a graduate lawyer. We found out about Tomislav Nikolic yesterday. Of course, when he teaches them how to protect their rights, then it's no wonder these things happen with our judiciary. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Novakovic, for these side effects to appear, when the window opens, which is the landscape of the windows, we're going around a little bit and we're going with this law. The law is important, because by this law this left side legalizes crime for the future. Let's talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4184	Thank you. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure Mr. Mirko Chikiriz, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4185	I volunteered for the replica, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4186	Excuse me, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4187	I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda. Probably what happened before my presentation was necessary to say. Mr. Peric, I fully understand Mr. Milenic. The local self-government in Kragujevac is probably the most stable local self-government. I think it's for a lot of reasons that the City Hall's work is good, that it can be a model for the work of this congregation. The political position of the SPI, as I did yesterday, in one sentence, I said, but now I'm going to explain a little bit, that we really are not making any difference between the MPs who stayed in the SRS and those who came out of it, in a political sense. We cannot understand that someone has been involved in politics in one way for 18 years, and the next morning he says, "I am a European Serbian right, and at the same time we remain faithful to the SRS political programme." For us, all of this is one thing and the SPO thinks that in the future in Serbia, the rights of the Serbian European right, which is necessary for Serbia, will be formed and created. I would once again ask that we return to the agenda, the citizens expect us to do so, and I agree with one of the previous speakers who said that both in the ruling coalition and among the opposition MPs there are extremely qualified people, who in a very valid and reasoned way can talk about the laws needed by this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4188	The word is made by Ms Jovanovic, the vice-president of the Assembly, based on a replica of the presentation of Parliamentarian Sasa Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4189	Mr. Vice President, I now have no one to replicate, I will speak for the public, because Milenic is not in the O.R. It's interesting that he went out at the same time as one of the former SRS council members. They may be connected by some common tendencies, I really don't know, but anyway, I have to answer what he said. It's not funny, Mr. Krassic. It's sad. You know that I'm someone who always defends every member of the SRS in every place, while a member of the SRS, so I had to answer the questions of the former vice president of the party whether a woman there knows and what she says, because she uses those colors that you're talking about, so I ask the Secretary General of the SRS, because she says, "I don't want to sit next to that someone, so I'm defending the SRS in the whole of Kragujevac, because it's a disgrace and a shame when they tell me -- and you have one for Europe." Now, that's past, so let's deal with those cases where these guys are in this new quasi-political organization. Mr. Chiquiriz, you said this nicely to change the turkey upside down overnight. I really read Mr. Draskovic's interview with attention and I like the title "Tom is a goat, not a tiger". He said nicely that no one, overnight, could say that a tiger was made of goat, to hang a goat around his neck that was something he wasn't. You are right, and the entire SPO, and your president, but be honest until the end, so say that on that day, last Friday, the City of Kragujevac Assembly, and by the decisions of those election bodies, the City Election Commission, and then the permanent body, decided on the same thing from two political parties, about you and ten SRS council members. That's the point. Why the double arches? Then he falls into the water this whole story of a man who is the president of the City Assembly, who just said that they have consciously entered that, that is, the congregation majority, to violate the Constitution and the Law. He said, therefore, that the Assembly did not make a decision, and it had to make it, because, otherwise, the Law is pointless, because the Law had bound the Assembly, if there is a provision in the Law that the Assembly does not realize, but that it states about it, which I consider to be a great failure and stupidity. Finally, before that, the City Election Commission and the Permanent Working Body, in this case unanimously, have decided to respect the electoral will, to respect the law, unrevocable resignations, contracts and powers under Article 47. But since it's already happened, everything's really been exposed and the masks are down. A purely political force, first established in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, because in your case it was voted in one way, and in the case of the SRS board, secondly, and firstly, political pressure and personal influence and pressure on the Kragujeva District Court. We're a big and serious party. People working on these issues to protect the electoral will of citizens, under the Law and by the Constitution, are already preparing appropriate criminal charges, above all, against Mrs Nikolic, the president of the Kragujevac Judiciary Council. Rest assured, and you said earlier, that the electoral will of the citizens should be respected, that we will protect the election will of the Kragujevcans and that we will recover the 10 parliamentary mandates chosen from our election list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4190	On the amendment, Mr. Momir Markovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4191	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, first of all, to congratulate the citizens of Serbia on their endurance, have endured 101 days of this government, have survived. As far as the amendment is concerned, the amendment submitted by Mr. Jadranko Vukovic refers to Article 27 of the Law, and Article 27 of the Law says: the temporary confiscation of property takes place until a decision on a request for permanent confiscation of property is made. Mr. Jadranko Vukovic says: "Say – until a decision is made on a request for permanent confiscation of property is made, they are replaced by words – until handing over to the Directorate for a solution to the permanent confiscation of assets". What's this about? A decision is made on the permanent confiscation of property, and it goes on until it reaches the Directorate, and it will still, under the form of temporary confiscation of property, be managed by those assets, and you know that when something is temporarily guarded, it is known that something is being suppressed, and it is known to disappear, especially if the one who guards that "cupus" is "goat". What would it mean in this case if you adopted this amendment and it became an integral part of the law? The moment the Directorate gets a solution, the temporary confiscation of property ceases, and it becomes permanent confiscation. This has a direct link to the amendment to Article 25 of the Law, Mr. Petar Jojic's amendment, that Article 25(3) needs to be deleted. It is said that, by way of a solution set out in Article 2, the court may leave a part of the property to the owner, if it is to question the maintenance of the owner or person he is obliged to maintain, in accordance with the provisions of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's translate it into a practical example and show what it would mean to apply this Article to Article 25(3). For example, Tomislav Nikolic stole 20 mandates from the SRS. The government finally remembers that it is necessary to enforce the laws, that those who steal in some way should be punished and decide to return the mandates to who they belong to. But since Tomislav Nikolic, by his decision to steal the mandate and by forming that informal group, now has a certain group of those he has to support, whether, by applying such a member of the law, such as here, then the court, the state, will decide – he has stolen 20 mandates, but since he has to support these, let's leave him 6 mandates, part of the property, regardless of what they don't belong to him and what came to them in a criminal manner; to leave him 5-6 mandates, and to return this to the owner of the property, the SRS. By applying Article 25 of Article 3, for which Mr Petar Jojic asked to be deleted, he was placed in a privileged position by the one who stole, kidnapped, robbed, adopted, etc. If this member of the law were deleted, the one who stole the state came, the authorities came, the authorities took away the entire property and returned it to the owner, if the owner was known, and in this case the owner was known, in this case the SRS, in this case the property would have to be returned to the SRS. I don't think there's a more plastic example of this to show what Article 25 of Section 3 and Article 27 would mean unless the amendments were adopted. Therefore, I ask the MPs to vote on Mr Peter Jojic's and Mr Jadranka Vukovic's amendments in the voting day, because this will put the law in a position to finally stop when applied, at least partially, on the road to the abduction of other people's property. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this doesn't happen, then many will be able to reach out for other people's property, because they will know -- and if they catch me, I will be left with 20, 30, 50%, depending on the generosity of whoever decides to apply this law, and I will be able to function, because, God, I have someone to support. The fact that he was born in Serbia's political wing, a prenup called 'progress', vice versa, I don't know what he's going to call himself, because this is the third name they're changing, it doesn't deserve to live on other people's torture, on other people's sweats, on somebody else's property, and on other people's property. Therefore, I ask you to press the green key in the voting day and adopt these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4192	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4193	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, we will try to continue what we started yesterday, I think that the public interest obliges us to do so. It is not a questionable issue of the state's fight against corruption and organised crime, we support it and we want to participate in it, but it is a controversial way of doing it. This law is truly amazing. We go from member to member from extreme. On the one hand, we have to protect the right of citizens who, uncontrollable freedoms given to themselves by executive power, this law threatens, and on the other hand, we have to protect the interests of society, because already in the next member of the law, the government shows an incredible understanding for those who have committed a crime. Explain to us how it's possible, for example, that someone who has an irregular credit service, who invests his entire assets in credit service, so he can't do it anymore, remains without his property, and this state has no understanding of the fact that, for example, he's existentially dependent on it and that he's threatened by the existence of law enforcement and confiscation of property, and, on the other hand, the state has an understanding for some perpetrator of a felony, because, my God, let's leave him with something that he's acquired by kidnapping, trafficking in women, let's leave him with what he's acquired in drug trafficking, because if we take away everything he's acquired in a felony, he won't have anything to live on. Is there any other way to get rid of it? If he's supposed to live, let's say he's been allowed to do it by some other law, not by letting him continue to use part of the property that was acquired by a felony. The second question, which is also very important, please do not banalise it – what does the question of the life and death of the one who commits a crime with the right to dispose of the property that has been obtained by a criminal act have to do with it? We have members of the "earth clan" who committed the most serious crimes, were sentenced to hundreds of years in prison. Does this mean that with their assets, assets acquired by kidnapping or the most severe forms of crime, they can freely dispose of their families? It's totally unacceptable. Here you have several amendments that are reasonable, regardless of the fact that they come from the opposition. I think you should accept them. That would be very important because of the law. Otherwise, this law will pass, or this whole set of laws will go the way some others did. How does the ruling coalition apply to the laws of this country? Explain to me why LDP MPs, or LDP members, would have to comply with the Anti-Corruption Agency law when MPs do not respect it? The Assembly adopted a law defining the responsibility of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Did we pass that law, Mrs. Malovic? Yesterday, the president of the Committee, Mr. Beljanski, begs you, and he's the president because we asked him to, let's say we don't need that committee, and he says, "Please, we're warning four MPs of the ruling coalition to respect the laws of this country," and they say, "We're going to ask the Constitutional Court." We have a Minister of Human Rights, who says, "There is no Constitutional Court," so MPs will take each other's mandates, because they will assess who respects, who does not respect, who does not violate the Constitution, and on the other hand, there are laws that the ruling coalition mocks. And the initiatives that are good happen in this way. How can someone ask Parliament to understand the existential threat of those who are in that status because they have finally reached the hand of justice? How can we have understanding for someone who's earned money by kidnappings, leave him some of that money, because he can't live without it, he needs a car, he needs an apartment, he needs to travel, he needs to train kids? That's what they had to think about before. I guess there's some kind of warning, there's some educational meaning of punishment that's being pronounced, so when someone sees kidnappers cut to the head, in chains, in the vanes, like they do before a court, and not as they laugh at the face of justice, then, I guess, the relationship to crimes will change, so someone will realize that it's not the path that's desirable. That is why I think it is very important to adopt the amendment proposed by the opposition and the SRS. The solution is important. Like this, the decision, so we need to arbitration, as the ruling coalition is now arbitration – whether or not the law will apply. The solution has been made, the solution has been delivered and the Directorate has to implement it. This is how the Directorate will say, "We don't have a solution." Who will inform the Directorate of that decision, in such a way, it should be governed by the law, because tomorrow we will meet with these issues that we are facing today. If the government doesn't respect the laws, why do we have to respect them? If Parliament doesn't respect them, why should society respect them? Everyone here is going to be looking for some benefit for themselves, so people are going to say, "I don't want to pay taxes, I don't want to pay gas, because I don't understand why I have to pay for it, I don't want to pay for the phone, because why the phone cost 50%, nobody asked me." There are some relationships that are arranged in society. These relations must be affirmed by our proper relationship with them, so MPs should respect the decision of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, because if they do not respect that decision, why should we respect the Anti-Corruption Agency tomorrow? For what? You should respect these amendments that restore the meaning of the law. You can't be a little responsible for crimes. Personally, I don't think we're the ones who need to take care of the existence of those who committed the most serious crimes. The accounts must be maintained by institutions that are competent to do so, and the jurisdiction of those institutions is determined by other laws, so if there is a social case, then the State will take care of them, in accordance with the laws which they are governed by. I think it's bad if this stays on an existing basis, so you should accept the amendments that go that way and facilitate the Directorate's position. When he gets a solution, the Directorate has to act. So, how is someone going to be able to apply the decision, let's say, about a permanent takeover of property? You know who's taking away the property. This property was not acquired by being a sportsman, a writer, or a successful businessman, but by the most serious crimes. The one who has to apply that decision must have the support of the state. State support, among other things, is being seen through a clear solution, and this solution has been delivered, based on that solution further states are acting, and there is no understanding of the most difficult crimes and assets to achieve. There is no way we can accept that, and I ask you to understand that and respect that amendment. I do not dispute that there were and that there were positive intentions, but there are also some inconsistencies that are completely incomprehensible. So many examples are given to you in a set of these laws that push the other side, all the important questions that have been raised here, through these laws, good answers, quality questions. Let's say, if you don't respect the board, why should we respect the Agency tomorrow? What, the Agency can ban us from doing 10 years of politics? How can he forbid that? How can the Agency forbid someone from doing politics for 10 years? In what way? These are all misunderstandings, remove them, and you will receive support. So, it's just going to be the political marrilitluk of a government, which has taken out of the drawer laws that are professionally disputed by the institutions, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Council for Combating Corruption, which gives legitimacy not to our suspicions, but to our objections that we need to work more seriously, more carefully, and that this is an ad hoc campaign, which, unfortunately, will pass as any previous campaign that the state has launched to fight corruption. A political opponent or some political insubordination within the party suffers, an unsuitable businessman gets hurt. When a question of the rules to be put in place, the question remains without an answer, because they are precedents. That's what's wrong with itself. That is why there is no support for the law, without the willingness to deal with this very important problem in a serious and responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4194	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27 of this Law, which has two positions. The first point is: "Temporary confiscation of assets takes place until a decision on a request for permanent confiscation of assets is made". The second view, which concerns my amendment, which I asked for it to be deleted, reads: "In the event of the death of the owner or if circumstances arise which call into question the justification for the temporary confiscation of the property, the court may reconsider the decision made". This second attitude devises not only this first position of Article 27, but the application of the law at all. As the previous speaker said, how come so much understanding, how come so much complicity with the perpetrators of serious crimes? Here we leave, in this second position, a completely arbitrary interpretation, a vast space not only for the defenders of these crimes, but for all others who want to influence that this law is not fully applied, not to be applied at all, and to be completely funny in its application. So, in the first steps of applying this law, if it can be reached at all, I believe that a number of defenders of criminal acts will be called, precisely, to this second position of Article 27. So these two positions in Article 27, they simply can't stand, they can't survive because they cancel out. The second thing I wanted to say is that if this is left in the law, we are making a deliberate, malicious, large injustice to the citizens of Serbia, by bringing one real, large, visible legal hole into the law. This isn't a hole in the law, this is, what I said yesterday, a crater in the law, through which all those big-time property users are going to get their hands on a felony. So, all of them, since they don't already refer to the witnesses of the penitent, are criminals who will cooperate with the government further and thus preserve their property. Therefore, for all those large businessmen, tycoons, for whom Serbia clearly knows they have acquired illegal property, their defenders will find the circumstances that question the justification for the temporary confiscation of property, so the court will reconsider, and we know how these re-examinations result. Then the citizens of Serbia will have a big problem, because if a review of such a decision repeals the first member, i.e. a different interpretation of the decision, then the judiciary and the state will be able to be sued by these perpetrators, so they will seek compensation. Believe me, they'll all use it. This way, the state cooperates with them. This way, not only is she tolerated, she's their accomplice. This law seems to me to be brought in to satisfy two qualifications that are impossible to satisfy and which have been in the world since, since, always been funny when it was tried to be reconciled, which is that the wolf is also full, and the goats are numbered. That so far, since the world and the century, no one has succeeded. We have a law on confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. It's a European, it's a world-class liquid. At the same time, we can't do anything to those most serious criminals, the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. So what I insist on, since I expect it to be fully accepted by the ruling majority in this House, is that this amendment is respected at least in the vote. You will make this law much better by adopting amendments to Article 27. What I must say and to use my time, Madam Minister, on the agenda, is yesterday's comment on the amendment to Article 2 and the commentary that there is no criminal act of fraud in the traffic of real estate. Yesterday, by 18 hours, over 40 citizens' calls arrived at the New Serbia Parliament Club, mostly from Belgrade, but also from the interior, which they offered to bring to the attention of documentation of the non-existent crime, to show how they have been going through in these cases so far. Among other things, at the bottom of this hall, in the technical room, a man who was the victim of a company like that, the Nobel Company from Zemun, why not say that, who was trying to get his money back, only on trial, was arrested for harassment. So we have to answer to the citizens how we're going to fight this phenomenon that has now taken on the size of an epidemic in our society. I hope, Madam Minister, that you will be cooperative if New Serbia's MPs, in co-operation with citizens, offer you a legal proposal to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4196	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. On the amendment, Mr Dragan Todorovic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think Mrs. Zlata Djeric has very reasoned on why this amendment should be accepted and, in general, all this effort by the opposition parties to make these legal solutions as much as possible. He's motivated, above all, by the fact that in our country he's one of the most serious problems of crime and corruption. Regardless of what you're bringing all this, or you're trying to pass all these laws on the EU's recommendation, to get close to, allegedly, Europe, there's something you can't possibly do -- you're not doing something that could lead to a solution to the problem we're facing. During this debate, I brought you two concrete things. In 15 minutes, I haven't even counted 15-20 biggest affairs since 2001, and you know how many there are without the state doing anything so far. I have listed to you only the salaries of the directors of public enterprises, the chairman of boards, members, etc., how much damage it is to Serbia and the citizens of Serbia and how the property of Serbia is being arched. There's no more serious crime than a crime that practically is being committed. To me, it's just that there's sorry, conditionally speaking, honest criminals. They risk or get beat up while committing a crime, then the police, then getting a proper legal sentence, compared to those you have allowed to rob Serbian citizens. Here, I'll, in order not to have everything on the story, try to explain to you on a specific case how the unfavorable robbery of this country. Madam Minister, I'd like to ask your attention, I think that when you hear this, you won't be calm either, after these facts I'm about to give you. We've been running some information here regarding Bojan Krishte, a member of G17, who's the director of Nicole Tesla's Airport. He came to that place as a party chamber before the end of 2007 and immediately after the 'Lutria', which he also ruined, he set off a no-feeling, watch out, reluctantly to rob this country. Bojan Kristo paid for 141 employees of "Nikola Tesla" in December as a severance of 135,634,571dinar. Okay, come on, somebody would say-- severance is in accordance with the law, what to do. But, watch out, after that payment, Madam Minister, Bojan Kristo has kept the fourteen workers who took the severances, based on the work contract, to do certain jobs and paid for it, believe it or not, I will now tell you – 1,493,000 dinars. Out of that, they all received 32,500 dinars linearly, and two, Bauk Milorad and Zec-Gasić Radojka – 70,000 dinars each. Okay, is there one of you here with a common sense who can believe that someone managed to do this? I didn't think of you (He's talking to Srdjan Milivojevic). (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: I am very pleased. Do you see what kind of robbery this is?- I'm sorry. Look out, there are two people among them who also took severances, namely Rajakovic Radivoj and Nikolic Mira, the secretary. The severance fee was paid at 3.515.000 and Mrs. Nikolic Miri – 1.314.000. You know what the problem is, Mr. Rajaković Radivoj started a working relationship at the Ski resorts right after the severance payment! Okay, guys, can you figure out how this country is being robbed? It's just amazing! This data is no secret. You could've come to all of this and you could've gotten there without a problem, but it's just passing away. Do you know how many companies you have, public enterprises, and how to rob the property of citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia? I didn't pretend this, but you can easily do it, if you turn it into a euro, it's something like two million euros. Take how many square meters of apartments, for two million euros, just what Bojan Kristo did, these three things. How many square meters, if you take the price of 500 euros, in construction, and that comes to it about 4,000 squares, then you divide it by the average square and you see. See how many officers and members of the Serbian Army have not solved the housing issue. Do you know how many board of directors at the "Nikola Tesla" Public Enterprise, how many presidents are receiving? Yesterday, I was taking the data out. Listen now, the chairman of the Management Board has 183,000, members – 143,000. 143,000 each? Do you know how much it's monthly? The Management Board, please be careful, the Management Board received 2,039.000 for January 2008. My people, well, well, but how can you stand before the citizens of Serbia? You're looking for the adoption of some laws and, apparently, you're fighting crime and corruption, what is this? What is this, who made it possible for these people to take this kind of money and rob Serbian citizens? You gentlemen. Until you solve this, let go of the anti-corruption stories, the fight against crime. You allow the state to be robbed without even coming under the law – it's legalized crime. That's the problem our country is facing. Not to mention, you had examples yesterday, when it comes to Bojan Kristo, but how much does the state cost? Let's say, watch out, if you need a car, it would be normal for a public company to take the car, buy it. No, Bojan Kristo invented a new way – honestly, that it couldn't be more honest. He's getting a rental car. The state pays huge funds for it. In just a year's time it's 78, or just to see, a month's war of 3,471 Swiss, so in 12 months, look at how much it is! It's about 40,000 Swiss francs, but they didn't buy it, they took the car on the lease, they paid the rent. After that, they'll have to return it. They pay for insurance and everything alive, and the state has nothing to do with it. How is that possible? Who takes care of the money spent like this? There's something that might already look like a crime. You know, here, I'll tell you here – the National Programme for Integration in the European Union. There is no preferred path and desire than to come to the European Union. Elem, they say, a joint investment group of Belgrade Airport and the Turkish company "Technotes" won the tender for the operation of the Bodrum Airport in August 2007. The value of the job is about 100m euros, and the start of the realization is planned for the current year. I'm surprised they don't brag. They brag about the flag, they boast about the export of auto parts, etc., and they keep quiet about this. Look out, 100 million euros, and no one lives to say one single word. What's interesting about this is that Mr. Kristo, on December 27th, before the New Year, went with his family to Bodrum. That's right, paid everything, nice, everything's fine, no problem at all. Based on the law on the availability of public information, we've been looking for papers -- let's see, people, what's behind those 100 million euros, and don't brag. You have to admit it's strange, it's such a valuable job, it's so much money, and they shut up like they're watered. We, in accordance with the Law, have applied for information to be provided on this, to get insight into what business it is, because it is a job of the century for this country. But they answered us like this. They say – mentioned by the request, which was received in "Nikola Tesla" Airport on 30 April 2008, you requested an insight into the case files relating to the Bodrum-Milas project and the realization of the same project, as well as a photocopy of documents and files selected by the applicant or authorised person. ''According to Articles 15, 2nd and 5. The law on free access to information of public importance requires that you specify the requirement. '"Well, what does he want more precisely? Let's say -- give us that document and that document? Well, we want to see all the documents, see what's behind it. They say - you need to specify. So, please, what are we talking about? What does that look like? Normally, we, in accordance with the Law, as always when it comes to the SRS, spoke to the Trustee for information. The solution which ordered "Nikola Tesla" Airport to give us access to the files was sent on March 26th. Do you think we got the right to gain insight into those files? We didn't. Now I have reason to believe that behind this, knowing who the party belongs to, from experience with that party, is a major crime. As long as I have no insight, that's all I can think of. The reason why you can't see the material can only be that something is hiding. I don't think it's anything else. Madam Minister, I think this is the best possible example from which you can conclude that there are many things in this country that don't understand. How do we deal with crime and corruption, on the one hand, when on the other hand you have such a ruthless and brutal robbery, which is totally legal? How do you think you take the property that was taken from Serbian citizens by a person like Bojan Kristo, who is completely spent, delivered, or how can you say everything? How can you deal with that? You need to systematically find a chance to fight this. When you root this out, then you will have a much easier job with crime and corruption, then you will have the opportunity to stand before the citizens with a clear face and say – we are fighting for this country, for the citizens of Serbia. Until then, it will be an EPP, or a farce. During the debate on this law, and on the following, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, I will give you another concrete example, not a statement, etc., I will give you a fine example in which you will be able to see the discipline and co-operation of the most authorities and those who have allowed to rob this country. I've already told you that during the privatisation process, the state has made about 2 billion euros for assets estimated between 40 billion and 50 billion euros. On this case I'm going to show you will see how, where and to whom that money has been allocated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4198	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering for this amendment? Word has Mrs. Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4199	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must express my satisfaction that the debate in Parliament has returned to the amendments, but, on the other hand, I must say that it has been extremely useful for me and a debate that has been related to violations of the Rules of Procedure. The Justice Ministry is preparing a package of judicial laws, which I hope will be at the next session of Parliament in the coming period, so for everything that was passed yesterday, perhaps it is the right way to regulate. Before I say my assessment of the amendments that have been submitted, I must say that I will certainly listen to all the proposals and remarks relating to the law and everything that you convince me to do, I have no problem accepting, as a legislator, but I certainly will not agree with the flat-rate assessment that the laws have been removed from the drawer, that dust has been erased from them and that as such they are submitted to this Parliament for adoption. I can also explain this to the facts, if necessary, who worked on the law, how many times the working group met, how much time was spent, who was given an opinion, which round tables were organised, and how much, for opinions and round tables, the working group met again, and then the laws were submitted to the National Assembly for adoption. Allow me to tell you about this law, and it concerns the people who worked on the bill. In my initial presentation, relating to the debate in principle, I said that our most intrinsic professors of criminal procedural law, on the one hand, were working on this law as theorists who knew this area, but on the other hand, people were working as practitioners, who apply this law daily in practice. In addition to the name, without wanting to leave out anyone, I will mention one name that is quite familiar to the public, and that is Judge Radmila Dragicevic-Dicic, known for saying, with a basic sanction, the confiscation of property in the case of "Zorubica". It's a person who's really competent to work on making this kind of law. The purpose of the law is to confiscate property, as I said, and I also said that in the laws so far, the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code, it was regulated to confiscate property acquired by criminal acts, but a direct link was sought. This law refers to the entire property of the defendant, which implies that if someone acquired property by committing crimes, smuggling of cigars, tobacco or any of the deficit products, which were unfortunately the practice in our country for the past 15 or 20 years, and invested it in another business, and that property will come under attack. Also, in art. 2 of this law, under points 6) and 7) is a regulated circle of the person to whom the property is applied. It's not just the property of the owner or the defendant, it's the property and the person he transferred the property to, trying to avoid the law. So it could be property and a leaver, and a legal follower, and a third party. Under the third person is considered any natural or legal person. That was the law's intensity. So we're not taking away property if someone stole the car, so that the car is taken away, but whoever acquired the property by smuggling or some other illegal business has invested it in another business, so that that property can come under the influence of the law. As for the debate over the amendment that has been tabled, regarding the possibility of leaving a certain asset to the person who comes under the influence of this law, it is the most necessary property and this refers to personal matters. It's regulated by the Executive Procedure Act. Of course, what someone stole cannot be considered personal property and the most necessary work, and it does not fall under the law. As regards the execution of the solution, Art. 34. The bill has been regulated to implement the solutions and to be delivered to the Directorate. I will quote a member: "After receiving a solution from Article 2, the Directorate immediately takes measures to preserve and maintain the taken property. The disbursed property is managed by the Directorate until the judicial end of the procedure for the permanent confiscation of assets." There's no situation where a court can't deliver a solution to the Directorate. Let me go back to the stated allegations concerning the crime of selling immovableity, to explain, in relation to yesterday's debate, since it obviously wasn't clear from what I said. A criminal act as such, as an immovableity sale, does not exist, however, does not mean that there is no criminal protection in the event of such an incriminating event. This criminal-legal protection is regulated under other criminal acts. Therefore, once again I pray and appeal that my words are not twisted and that they are not considered as such as I have not brought forth. Let me have one of these, given that such a possibility is being used here, I'll say in one sentence, about those who have received public warnings from the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. I hope, today or tomorrow, when we discuss the proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, you will see that there will be much more effective sanctions in the event of violations, non-reporting of property or non-compliance in the event of conflicts of interest, and that this law will be much more effective than the law that exists now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4200	Thank you. The word is Mrs Zlata Djeric, so Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister Malovic, there was no twisting of words. You said that a crime as such does not exist, however, you have now said that criminal and legal protection of citizens exists. She's in practice, literally, or she doesn't exist, or she just doesn't live. Otherwise, we wouldn't have tens of thousands of citizens who can't solve this problem in front of the judicial authorities, who are brought in if these frauds, in any way, demand their rights, first to them, and then to the judicial authorities. Such processes have been conducted for a minimum of ten years, with citizens never exercising their rights or restoring their property. It is a big problem and it is obvious that, if there are, those solutions are not satisfactory, but they must be sought new or a new legal solution, which will be quickly, efficiently and fully in favour of the protection of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4202	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4203	Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Malovic, the problem with this law is that they are mutually opposed members, which is contradictory. Why are the laws removed from the drawer? Well, because that's what the president of the Anti-Corruption Council says. This law is criticised by bodies that have so far dealt with issues governed by this law. So, the Committee for the Protection of Conflicts of Interest, the fight against conflicts of interest and, on the other hand, the Council for the fight against corruption, these are the only two bodies in our country that deal with these issues, by regulating this segment of our lives. The only two. Both criticise what is now happening and both criticise on the basis of which the LDP criticises. Mr. Beljanski says -- it's a good thing, for example, it's improving, if we talk about anti-corruption law, that segment of preventing conflicts of interest, and you mentioned it. What's wrong? It's a bad usurpation system, too much authority. We have spoken so many times – how is the Agency formed? By delegationing its representative to the president, the Assembly, the Government, and the State Auditory Institution, where the representatives of the majority, who were chosen against the basic intention of the law, are sitting. That's why today the state audit institution has no space, or it's got rooms after a year, and nothing's working yet. Then we have press associations, which, yes, will agree on their representative. How will this be agreed by the press associations around their representative? We have the Bar Association, so we have the Supreme Court, so since we know how the judges are elected here, the State Auditing Institution, and how the representatives of the press will delegate, we have, in fact, the Government. That's what Mr. Beljanski points to. Too many rights, lack of control, possibility of abuse. Would that be anything new compared to what we've been through? It wouldn't be new. What's the problem, the big problem with this law? To whom this law applies – organized crime, display of pornographic material, exploitation of children for pornography, crimes in the economy committed, and then said.... It's called a head, right. We can look into what the Special Court has turned into. A special court has turned into a court that mainly reveals crime in the economy, in that part of the economy that is in conflict with another part of the economy. We can't ignore it, we haven't passed the Law on the fight against organised crime in order to ultimately criminalise that law and compromise that institution. We have a case of a businessman who was used in a political campaign and a reckoning, today he's being tried in a Zrenjanin court for bribery, because he paid 20,000 dinars to a man who lost his car in the middle of the night, and for two or three months he was in custody based on Special Prosecutor's request. Whether or not we can also say that there is a possibility of abuse, it should be narrowed down. There is no understanding of these laws in bodies that have so far dealt with the regulation of these relations, the Anti-Corruption Council and the Committee. No decision of the Committee has been applied. It'll be more effective now. And what would be more effective? What will MPs who make up most of the ruling coalition arrest themselves? That won't make it more effective, since the effectiveness of this law depends on political will, that's the problem. It'll depend on political will, so it won't be more effective. That is why it is possible that this is what Parliament's Todorovic is talking about, so it is possible to make a mockery of an institution in creation, the institution of the Trustees. How can an effective trustee act without the information classification law? It's all a state secret, here we are, listening to an MP from the ruling coalition, Mr. Chanka, who joined our demands yesterday. We want to get an answer to the question about the gas price structure. We want to get an answer to that question. Can't the Assembly get an answer to that question? Don't come to us any more, no one comes to us, go to the presidency, go to the government, say, there's no Parliament; don't come to us. Why do we exist? If anyone asks us what we do, well, nothing. We're sitting here so this space has some content. Can we get an answer to that question? You're the minister of justice. Nothing, personally, I don't blame you and I don't have any criticism of your work so far, but you're sitting in one government. It's humiliating the democratic order. State secret is the price of gas. Why are you paying a 5% commission, and it's a state secret. The state's secret is concession, the state's secret is a contract with Fiat, so it gets published after the contract is signed, the government's Action Plan is the government's plan to banish the ambassadors and then we get to the point that the law will be applied, but from tomorrow. Why would that be? There is a possibility of abuse of this law. It is true that something has been resolved by the Implementing Procedure Act, that is correct, but can we agree with the fact that, with us, various interventions and the absence of any coordination, there has been legal chaos in the country? Can we agree that something is punishable under one law, and not according to another, to invoke one law, to avoid liability under another law? That's what's happening to us right now, that's what this is about. That's why this has to be precise. What property, in what amount, is it left to? None of the people we're dealing with in this law have property on their hands. Pablo Escobar had no property on him, he was a modest man, he lived with a friend. We need an effective law. That's what we insist on, and that's why we write those amendments. Yesterday, we said so many times that we needed not an opinion, but the prosecutor's consent; if it wasn't so far, let's bring it in now. How do you afirm the prosecutor's office? Like this, who's setting up the D.A.? Government. What does the Venice Commission, the Colloquial Name, or the Commission for Democracy think about it through law – that's its full name? What does the Venice Commission say? He says it's a scandal, that the prosecutor's election procedure is scandalous. What are our experiences? The Republic Prosecutor is introducing a state of affairs, the judiciary is devastated, seven years of different prolongings of law enforcement, I don't think you're responsible, but it has to be settled. Now we're going to have a law on executive procedure, but we're going to have a law that says, okay, for my life, the way it is, I need that, so some judge is going to judge whether it is or not. You can take your head, sir, but we know very well what country we live in. We know very well that a written ruling by the Supreme Court was exercised from the office, which is clearly an act of criminality - murder at the Ibar Master's Office. We know that, so it's written again. We know that we're being arrested by the Supreme Court judges, we know where our judges, the prosecutors, live from, from which they pay. The President of the Judicial Council who led the most significant process in this country has been harassed, I mean Mark Kljajevic. What status does the President of the Judicial Council now operate in which she signed a court verdict for the murder of the Prime Minister? What's her position in the Supreme Court? Where is she in our court practice today? Let's count dozens of such judges. Who is responsible for the attack on a lawyer in Valjev, a great judge, I mean Mr. Djukanovic? We can't ignore that. You won't have people applying this law as you wish. I think it's a good intention, but it's a lot of empty space, and the criticisms we're making, they're criticisms that are made by the professional public. I think the Anti-Corruption Council, it's my political opinion, sometimes too bad, but it's his function to do it, to draw attention every day, so he can make a mistake. He may be wrong, but his function does. The fact is that the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was written to silence the council, and it was written during the first government period of Vojislav Kostunica, to silence the Council. There were great pressures, some other priorities were imposed, and that remained on the sidelines. Now this topic has been updated. Can we know why? In what way? We need a deal with these people. Will there be room for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Anti-Corruption Council? The legislator can come out and say, "We talked, we got the support of the Council, some members of the Council want to stay and work in the Council, some want to move to the Agency, we'll respect that, the president will propose, the government will propose." We've spoken to parliamentary parties, they'll propose to someone. Then it's some seriousness. This is how these people are gonna be victims. I watched their press conference in the government yesterday. That's not encouraging. What can we say about these members of the law we've referred to so many times? It's written in such a way that it leaves a very wide scope. Someone needs something for life, someone doesn't. The country is being prosecuted because of the destruction of illegal property, the possession of persons convicted of the most serious crimes. The Republic of Serbia is being tried for destruction on Schiller Street. That property was won by football. How does the state react to that? What's the consequence of all this? It's a mockery. It takes initiative, but it'll be all tomorrow. It's got to be today. Let the ruling coalition address this problem and let it apply, let it thank the mayor of Jagodina, the mayor of Kragujevac, his deputy and the president of the municipality in Zaguvica, and let him say – well done, you have great results, so you won the elections, but you have to choose whether you will be MPs or you will be people who do business in local self-government. Otherwise, you break the law, the government violates it. If this principle is introduced now, which would oblige anyone in the future. If we decide not to, as an opposition, it won't be so, because you can't arrest 120 opposition MPs because they won't give you their reports. If we have to hand it over to someone, I want to make sure that this treatment, a treatment that, by its example, puts security into every man's life in this country. If it's a mockery, like the Party Financing Act, then we won't be involved. We all know how much an election campaign costs. Parliament voted in favour of one law to take off its responsibility, so now we get, applying the law, out of the budget money that is enough for a week of campaign, if we talk about big parties that go with ambition to win the elections. How can it be won in Serbia's elections with a budget from the state? How can a party get a million-and-a-half votes with those funds? Two-thirds of the electoral body is in the country. We can come to Leskovac and hold a meeting in Leskovac, but 140 villages have that municipality. Every village needs to be entered, if you want to win. That's what it costs. Then politicians are criminals because they break the law, and that law was passed by the same politicians. It's a myth, it's hypocritical, and that's why we need to be seduced by order and say -- the law exists because it obliges, first, the power, which, otherwise, the law enforces, and then obligates us from the opposition that we criticise, so we respect those laws. We have the president of the municipality, too. Don't sit here in the assembly. Perhaps it would be useful for us to have another representative of the Vojvodina municipality who would speak, have other parties. They respect the law, someone doesn't respect it. I'm sorry, we don't understand about the giraffe or Mr. Palm. We appreciate his contribution to forming a European coalition, but he must choose between Jagodina and the Assembly, because it is such a law, or that the law is withdrawn. The condition for voting on this law is the government's willingness to comply with existing laws and to respect our amendments, which are well-intentioned, not against you. We don't mean to belittle you, the formulation – dust has been removed and removed from the drawer, is the formation of the President of the Anti-Corruption Council, Mrs Barac, and I think it's correct. If the government is going to fight corruption, then the fight is being fought in another way, so that there is a democratic order somewhere and a trustee institution, which seeks information, MPs, who have the right, given that we are being followed by a great responsibility. We've heard now that a member of the board of directors has twice as much pay as the president of the state. How do these companies do? What does that look like? Let the order be taken, and let the state tighten the belt, and not to speak, there is no money for the students. If it sounds like demagogy, I'm sorry, but in the end it turns into that, not that teachers are now writing amendments, like they want to drive out students, and the professor exists because of students. Now there's Jagoda Jorga writing an amendment that confronts students, as a professor of medical school, because there's no money in the budget to make promises, or the policy the government wants to make, and on the other hand, there's money for them to play with us. It can't do that. If there's no money, let's see if there's any extras, so he can cut and move to another place. That's the budget rebalance and that's the debate we're waiting for. If we hurt you in any way during our discussion, it wasn't a wish. Every honor of everything you do, I hope you'll be successful, that's what we need, and you'll have our support in that effort, but these laws have a lot of hollow spots to be effective. The state must be uncompromising in that, and in order to be uncompromising, it has to be clear. No mercy for the perpetrators of crimes, no arbitration on how long it takes to live. If arbitration is carried out, this law must write in accordance with which law it is done, and to say - according to the Implementing Procedure Act, which must be very clear, and then this country will begin to look like the society that we want to create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4204	Thank you. For this amendment, this parliamentary group has no time left. Mr. Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4205	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to request a notice from the present Madam Minister, to tell us how much has the EU made a donation to reform our legislation? When, in what amounts and whom have the fees for participating in the writing of proposals and draft laws that have never seen the light of day and never arrived before Parliament? Who are those who have been rewarded and received money from these donations, and according to my knowledge, it is about two million euros? That's what I want to draw attention to and the MPs. Madam Minister, is the new criminal code coming up soon? The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted, in 78 members are contrary to the current constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4206	Mr. Jojic, this has nothing to do with the amendment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4207	It's all right, I'm taking the opportunity for the minister to be here. Has the government prepared a new proposal, or amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it is in a number of provisions contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4208	Thank you. Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you were just trying to explain that the law is good because it was done by competent experts and some top-notch authority in this area, which theorists, which is what practitioners do. You mentioned one name from the respect, but with all due respect and respect for Mrs Radmila Dicic, it is insufficient and it cannot be an argument that the law works. This law sucks. There's a lot more authority in this room than the ones I assume participated in his creation. My question to you is whether these are the ones from that university that has mutilated the sexual ties of professors and students, whether they are those from that college that have been laid down by various professional organisations, whether they are experts from that university where the stands are held, whether they are experts from that university that works are found and opinions on the orders of a tycoon, that there is no conflict of interest in the work of his companies, etc.? I'm afraid so. It would be good if you told me who these experts are. No one in this room has heard of who did it, or the round tables, or the public debate, a word. It would also be good to answer whether the president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, Mr Perjanski, President of the Anti-Corruption Council, Mrs Verica Barac, President of the State Audit Institute, Mr Rade Sretenovic, President of the Competition Protection Commission, Mrs Dijana Bajalovic, participated in this, particularly the Agency's law, in drawing up the Draft and Bill of Law. These are people who are, by definition, competent to deal with this matter. No, they're, like pastors, to end up completely, because it doesn't suit the government. We saw today a series of examples of abuse, enormous corruption, and why the government doesn't respond. So I mentioned specific names. You should mention specific names, I repeat. This has nothing to do with you personally, but it has to do with the fact that people who are truly competent and who are, above all, morally credible, are not involved in the making of the law because, in addition to expertise, moral credibility is also needed. These institutions, which each government should guard as a bit of palm water, simply end up in a corner, have no elemental working conditions either. He's trying to completely ignore, ignore, absorb, suppress their work and their actions, because sometimes they dare to say something against this government and these authorities. That, of course, has nothing to do with you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4210	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mirovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 28(1). Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. Article 28. The draft law regulates the permanent confiscation of property, more specifically, in the first position of the member, following the entry into force of the indictment, and no later than one year after the judicial end of the criminal proceedings, the public prosecutor shall submit a request for the permanent confiscation of the property arising from the criminal offence. The amendment requires that the period of one year under Article 28(1) be reduced to three months. However, the legislator does not accept the amendment, because within a year, it reportedly gives the public prosecutor the opportunity to initiate a procedure to confiscate property that was not known to exist at the time of the verdict. The legislator himself realizes that such justification is contrary to an emergency procedure provided for in Article 28(4). It's a bill of law. That is why the Proposer very strikingly emphasises that this deadline is not related to the position of Article 28(4). It's a bill of law. However, the solution provided for by the Proposer can be justified by convincing arguments. In this context, the following questions can appear in practice. Why are there charges filed if there's no idea what property the defendant has? Will the public prosecutor continue to investigate the value of the assets to be seized within a year of the judicial end of the criminal proceedings? Finally, is this how we apply the methods of work applied to The Hague tribunal, more specifically, all that is negative in the practice of The Hague tribunal? For example, people are first charged, then detained, and evidence is collected at the end of the process. This was done in the case of Mr Karadzic and Dr Vojislav Seselj, when even the charges were changed. This similarity with The Hague tribunal is also imposed when the basic provisions of the bill, which are also related to this amendment, are analysed. For example, Article 2 sets out the criminal offences to which this bill applies. The position of the 7th member states that these are also crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law. It is then understood that these are criminal offences in Article 372. Criminal Code, then Articles 377, 378, 379, 388 to 393. So it's very serious crimes, such as war crimes against the civilian population, illegal murder, arms trafficking, maroadeism, human trafficking. If you accuse someone of such serious crimes, you must have evidence. Therefore, the indictment must not be brought before the collection of serious evidence. After all, you have seen the legal indignity of the UN tribunal's prosecution in many cases when the indictments are lifted lightly, without any evidence. The non-critical copying of such quasi-based products, such as the Hague Tribunal, may lead to the invention of new crimes, as is the case in The Hague. For example, a joint criminal enterprise, known as Professor Alan Dershovic, who has been handing over criminal cases at Harvard for 42 years, believes: "This newly discovered theory of a joint criminal enterprise, in fact, is a new criminal offence, gives prosecutors an unlimited opportunity to discreetly decide who they will place in the participants of a joint criminal enterprise." Similarly, it can be concluded when an analysis of the 1997 Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly Recommendation on hate speech is made. According to this recommendation, hate speech should be regulated under civil law, not criminal law. However, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia acts exactly the opposite. He regulates hate speech within the framework of criminal law and thus misreads international law. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the amendment to Article 28 and its refusal, it should be pointed out that, in the light of the law, the law should be adopted by an urgent procedure. If an emergency procedure is necessary, then the deadlines provided for in Article 28 should be shorter. That's why there's no logical explanation for refusing this amendment. As in many other laws, the urgency of the procedure is also required because of the so-called so-called ‘. the accession process to the European Union. In this context, in the light of the bill's proposal, there is also a positive comparative experience of European Union countries in the area governed by the draft law, in particular, Belgium, the Netherlands, Ireland and the UK. But as already known, in Article 2. The draft law states that the provisions of the law also apply to criminal offences governed by Article 359, 363, 364, 66, 67 and 68. Criminal code. So it's about anti-candidal mediation, service fraud, receiving and giving bribes. All these phenomena, as if suggested by the legislator, will disappear when, and if, one day we join the EU. Even as the main objective of the law, the European Partnership for Serbia, adopted by the European Union to join our country as a short-term priority, envisions the improvement of legislation and the strengthening of the capacity to take away the property benefit obtained by criminal acts. These confusing passwords, of course, can serve as a kind of propaganda, but the legislator should know that in EU practice, not everything is so ideal. For example, the crimes mentioned earlier, listed in our Criminal Code, are not being punished in Great Britain, which should be an example to us, as is so - called. The Hague court. According to Daily Mail, Tony Blair bought five properties during his prime minister's term, worth five million pounds, although his salary was not enough for half a month's loan payments. No one has taken that property from him, although there is no explanation for the illegal incomes of this species. Also, EU Trade Commissioner Mendelson resigned twice in Britain in 1998 and 2001 because of similar public affairs. In December 1998, Mendelson forgot to report a $37,000 loan, from which he bought a house on Notting Hill. Ten months later, he returned to the government of the "fair" Tony Blair. In 2001, Mendelson had to resign again because of a similar affair, but instead of being taken away from him illegally acquired property, he only made further progress, setting up a senior EU official, in charge of such a significant and profitable area as trade. So blind copying EU countries' legal solutions is not always good. The laws must adapt to our reality. It is therefore necessary to adopt an amendment to Article 28, because it makes a significant contribution to improving the text of the bill and facilitates its future application in our practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4212	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4213	On the basis of Art. 225 and 226. Madam President, please try to maintain order in the O.R., because I will try to be very concise and these are very serious issues that really concern the fate of certain people. First, I must express once again the satisfaction that you are here, Madam Minister, and that you are patiently and committedly taking part in the work of this assembly session, listening to every complaint we have. Very likely, this time I wouldn't go out for this pay phone if this democratic parliament had a formed committee to protect human and minority rights, but what it is -- there's, I don't have another chance, but to ask you a question like this. Given that the defence team of Dr Vojislav Seselj is very often in The Hague and has the opportunity to testify to the protection of the Republic of Croatia, the resolution ministries, detainees in detention units, the particular question for you is what will the Ministry of Justice do in the event of the imposition of the lawyers of Dr Vojislav Seselj, which we expect in what day? So, we now express our anxiety and great fear, because in a further context, it means Dr. Seselj's life-threatening nature, so we're interested in what the Justice Department will do specifically if the right to a fair trial of one of the war crimes suspects is done? That's the first question. The second question is what will the Ministry of Justice do in your term for all other detainees in the Hague tribunal's detention units, in terms of their status as detainees and the right to a fair trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4214	I thank Mrs. Ragush Marini, although we agreed to have a special session on parliamentary matters. But she took advantage of the minister's presence and kept her time, so that's fine. Mr. Zoran Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4215	I'm glad you're back from the official trip, because as it was yesterday, I thought I was training karate at this one of yours, getting my'seventh day - black belt', because that's the only way you could get to the pay phone yesterday while Mrs. Comic was here. Okay, we'll talk about it when he's in the O.R. Now I would like to step up what Mr. Mirovic has explained about this amendment. I'm getting the impression that a government official, from yesterday morning to this morning, cheated on you because you just said something that no one on this side has even attacked, but was just looking for solutions not to legalize the abuse of the provisions of this law. Would it be good if you told us if our country had accepted this convention from Palermo and this Vienna convention? Do you know what I'm talking about? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: I don't know. You don't even know other things. This is complicated for you. Go to Tom to explain, he's done law school in Bologna. I'm old-fashioned, don't ask me about it. Go over there and qualify. Here's the thing. He's right. It's usually a burden of proof on the one who's suing. In the case, it is the prosecutor, guilty -- an authorised prosecutor, whether a public or private prosecutor, and he is obliged to prove guilty. There's a crime where the defendant, if he wants to be free, has to prove his accuracy, so we say he proves his innocence. It's about slander. It's the only exception. Isn't that right, Mr. Battice? You have accepted something here that is improvisation and has not yet been implemented abroad, if you prescribe it from abroad. Practically, a suspect or potential suspect here needs to prove his innocence, because if he doesn't prove his innocence, he's guilty. I'm not talking about guilt, I'm talking about property, because this law, first of all, applies to property. This, according to what they wrote in Palermo, would indicate that the perpetrator of the crime must, in certain cases, prove the legitimate origin of property and income. That's the whole point of this convention. See how long Tito's been in the EU before. He had a special law on the investigation of the origin of the property, but it was an administrative procedure, so the major opponents of the regime at the time, volcanoes, locksmiths, auto mechanics, independent shops, if any, and as a rule, there were independent catering shops, had to come and prove where they came from to make the new floor. Well, they go to a dad in the community, and he says, "Let me see what income you got, this and this, how much this roof costs; you didn't have that kind of money and you fell under this law." Then someone realized that's not how it works. You're the real representatives of Broz, you've just introduced it into the law. I'll remind you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you may not have read this bill, but I have to let you and the public know where the trinket is for the whole law. The whole law is about Article 3(2). This whole law, all of its provisions, refers to the following: "Some expressions used in this law have the following meaning: the property of the criminal property is considered to be property of the accused, a witness of an associate or a leaver, which is obviously disproportionate to his legitimate incomes". No matter how many crimes he committed, Bojan Kristo could not have been struck by this law, because he had completely legally earned great money, and if, as an accomplice to the execution of the crime, he had an unemployed face, then the unemployed person fell under the influence of this law, because between his legal income and what was the result of the crime to determine the difference and to determine that he had fallen under the influence of this law. Do you see that mental set of the whole law? It's all about fiction. It's all about conjecture. If you put this in the context of those transitional and final provisions, when this law enters into force, and you see that it does not apply to the witnesses of the associates until the entry into force of this law, then this part of Article 3, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, does not apply either. Not to read names, you know, the public is familiar. The question is, is this law legalizing anything? This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication, starting from 1 June of next year. What do we do until then? Are we going to legalize everything, or would anyone who might have fallen under the influence of this law in the meantime agree to love Boris Tadic. That's what I wanted you to confirm. I have this problem that you don't communicate with me, so I think a lot of times about whether I'm talking to a wall or people. When you nod your head and confirm what I say, then it means we have quite good communication and you realize that you knew from the beginning why this law was passed. Here you go with nice stories, someone who smuggled cigarettes, so he made 100,000 marks. Those 100,000 marks were his founding capital for something, so he created some property, so because he smuggled cigarettes, we're going to take away now that property that costs him, or it's worth 5, 6, 10 or 20 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4216	Mr. Krasic, for your task force time, one minute, but you can finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4217	I'll keep going, I've got more about the Resistance to talk about, I've got stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4218	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic, about the amendment, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 28(1), there is an immediate contradiction – after the indictment has been brought into force, and no later than a year after the judicial end of the criminal proceedings. It's two completely different legal categories, because the indictment came into effect doesn't mean someone's guilty. In the light of the rejection of this amendment, it does not mention the indictment of the legal force, but merely the judicial end of the proceedings within a year. We have some other things that are more important. It is not a problem to bring the indictment into legal force, it is neither a problem nor a judicial end of deadlines, nor a proposal for an amendment that is rational, to speed it up, and not within a year of a judicial verdict, which would be logical, rather than an indictment being brought into force, because it does not mean anything. We have something that precedes that, which is the initiation of a criminal trial. What are we going to do with a light of evidence that abuses have been committed, that an enormous property benefit has been acquired, but criminal charges stand in drawers?- I'm sorry. Madam President, since you weren't here yesterday, I'm going to do it again, I've asked for transcripts, better said, of yesterday's session, and this is repeated today, which point to a number of abuses by the director of the airport to be passed on to the competent prosecutor. It's a crime, a crime under a party badge. If I have a badge, I can steal with a hat and a hand, nobody can touch me. When the prosecutor, one day, against the people of power, the officials of individual parties in power, initiates a criminal procedure, then we'll be on the right track. Until then, this law is a dead letter on paper. So yesterday we insisted on that amendment to Article 7 and Article 11, not to allow politicisation, because that's the essence, that's the basic spirit of this law. If the minister is a member of one party, if he is the head of the Financial Investigations Unit from that same party and if he is probably from that party and the Director of the Property Management Directorate, then this law can be thrown into the waste basket, there is no need to bring him in. It is calculated to fight against political inexperiences, their associates, potential sponsors, donors, etc. I mentioned the director of the airport and what's frantic for every Serbian citizen. There's a lot of that in other public enterprises. We're going to bring it out every day to see all the immorality, all the hypocrisis, nepotism, corruption, crime of people who need to exercise power and who should be exactly the opposite of everything that's being put out here. I'll mention a few examples. On 12 May 2005, the then special prosecutor for organised crime, Mr. Jovan Prijic, dictated for three and a half hours the criminal charges for abuses related to the National Savings Bank. Not a word about it. Then a year ago, I went to see Mr. Radovanovic, who was first the Special Prosecutor, instead of Mr. Prijic, so I went to him, so he promised me, he said, it's done. Do you know the fate of criminal charges? It moves either into the process, with a request to conduct an investigation, possibly, directly bring charges, or dismiss. There must be an epilogue. There's no epilogue. I went to Mr. Radovanovic, who inherited Mr. Prijic, to ask him what was going on with a criminal report that included so much evidence that it would be clear to those who were passing by that institution who had now legalized sexual relations between professors and students that it was the most serious crime. What was owned by the Department of Payments has become the property of the so-called so-called property. National savings banks, so even the late prime minister bought a cheap story that it would be one credible, respectable, powerful state bank and that that's why those four major state banks that were hoarding at the moment were shut down. Zoran Djindjic invested, I don't know, a thousand marks in that time, so we're building a powerful bank. Then it turns out it's not a powerful bank, it's a private bank, so it's the process of selling it. The main shareholders were some of the leading tycoons in this country, under the auspices of one of the people who was then in power and who is now at the top of the government and at the top of the government. Then they bought the National Savings Bank shares, through loans they raised at Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, as shareholders are in that bank. Yesterday I asked the governor of the National Bank to tell us how many foreign reserves Serbia has in that bank today, and something explains to us that I don't know how many in the Bundesbank, in the US government reserves, etc., etc. For seven billion, he didn't explain where they were. I'm going back to the story of the National Savings. After that, these same tycoons, the Euroaxis Bank money they got loans from, buy the National Savings Bank shares, sell them ten times more expensive when the National Savings Bank's privatisation starts, and put millions of euros in their pockets without investing any single dinar. Will the processing of this crime begin? I filed two years ago criminal charges for "Cyprus Money", with so much material evidence, you have half a hall of written evidence and traces of abuse and, of course, I asked Mr. Radovanovic for it and while he was Special Prosecutor. He promised me that they hired an American financial expert to work on it, so I was back with Mr. Radovanovic when he became the Republic State Prosecutor in the V.D. a condition, which is still today. The same promise to work on it followed, but they do not have good co-operation with UBPOK. We hear that the famous director of UBPOK has been changed. Let's see if anything changes regarding investigations into the National Savings Bank and the Cypriot Money. About this same prosecutor Radovanovic, we were, you too, Madam Minister, and with the previous minister of justice, with the unfortunate parents of the shooting guards, Milovanovic and Jakovljevic, seeking justice. Without need, in seeking a parallel between truth and lies, between honesty and dishonesty, justice and injustice, so on. Military investigations and honest and competent, independent state commissions, i.e. the subject went unnecessarily to the FBI. F.B.I. Ballistics confirmed that soldiers were killed and shot. But the D.A. won't make things perfect and say it's okay, they've been killed, we're going to start an investigation against the N.N. The perpetrator of this crime, but once again sought, needless, medical expertise. How? Based on what some American expert is going to do, it's not the FBI anymore, it's an expert individual, and why he's more competent than this team of the most competent judicial experts in this country, to be super-skilled, but to hide the truth, to forge reality, so that these unhappy families don't come to the truth! There are 50 soldiers who reportedly committed suicide in a period of only two years, and at least four-five were found to have been killed. It's all kept quiet because there's still a taboo about some topic and about some army cult or some military generals who are sinless. Furthermore, the people who conducted this investigation are adventing in the service, becoming judges of district courts. When criminal charges have been filed against them, here, he has now escaped for four years, for old age awaits. You know that, too. Then they do another crime at the Ibaric Master's, at the League's, but they're still district court judges. Now the citizens of this country need to believe in this judiciary. It has nothing to do with you so far, of course, and I deliberately mentioned this. I hope, since it is the re-election of judges, that it will be taken care not to repeat a mistake and that those who have sinned not only on the subject of expertise, but on the elementary moral norm, on conscience and security, can no longer perform a judicial function. About what I was saying, God forbid something changes when the chief of UBPOK was changed, because all the criminal charges I filed related to his party and personal friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4220	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word for Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. Every MP who answers the word is obliged to address this home with dignity, to speak the truth, which is not true in the case of Mr Batic. Mr. Batic, you've been attacking the G17 plus for days at the assembly pay phone. You were the minister of justice. Why didn't you take appropriate measures against certain faces, but do it later? You had knowledge, you could have hired a D.A., a public prosecutor, and other competent authorities to arrest individuals. What you're saying here is pure political propaganda, lies, nonsense, fiction, etc. The question is, why are you doing this? A serious question arises – does someone pay you for it? What is your goal, what are your intentions, how much does someone pay you, if they pay you? Are you a lawyer, perhaps, Milet Dragic? Does he pay you for these things you do here? Yes, by any chance, you're not defending this gentleman in a court dispute and is he paying you extra to muddle people from G17 plus for a congregation pay phone? When are you going to come to your senses, you have certain party experiences, and you're going to be a normal MP, with one normal dose, to be a gentleman, if nothing else, and not to go down to such a low level, to make things up, to make things up for someone else? What's happening in you as a person in these months? We all know well that you are waiting for a certain time when you will report to the Rules of Procedure and muddle unwitting people for a congregation speaker. You yourself are influencing that the dignity of this high house is being undermined by your unacceptable behavior here. I think it would be good, that it would be your turn to answer certain questions and to fix your behavior for yourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4222	Thank you. He's got the word, Mr. Batic. By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4223	Our people have a saying, that a man scratches where he itches. I didn't mention that famous party of yours. In one word, I didn't insult anyone here. If there's an MP I've offended, feel free to say so. I did not violate Parliament's dignity. This is where you recommended that I come to my senses, to be normal. Mr. Albianic, don't, at least you, tell someone that, that seems tragic. Let's get someone else from your MP group, and I'll take it. But it really looks like a farce to me. You said I wasn't telling the truth. Yeah, I always tell the truth, no matter what the price. That truth I'm telling is contained in the criminal records I filed, with a lot of material evidence, and I wasn't ashamed of it. Because of this truth, I was arrested on September 28, 2005, because those whose associate you were, that truth was in the way. Together with Zoran Stojkovic, through Mr Radovanovic, whose jurisdiction was not, and through this party friend, who is no longer the head of UBO-POK and whose, too, it was not the authority to silence me, they took me into custody. It's because of the truth. You said, why didn't I do anything as Minister of Justice at the time when I could do it? Mr. Albianic, the National Savings Bank was sold much later, since I was no longer a minister of justice. Mr Albianic, as justice minister, I received documents on financial abuses at the Belgrade-Cyprus route on November 19th, 2003, when elections were already called. The D.A. got them, too. I felt it wasn't right and it was my turn for the prosecutor to do his job, not for me to be the outgoing minister of justice. I said that again. Of course, I kept a copy, because I was afraid it would end up in a drawer, so then I handed you over, in front of all the cameras, somewhere in May or June 2004, to the D.A. Since there was still no reaction from the prosecution, I filed a criminal report in 2005. So much for that, Mr. Albianic. Whoever pays your leader, that's a lot to talk about, and some of your members. If you consider it moral that in Serbia, where millions of people are barely putting an end to the end, the director of the airport, with a badge, spends enormous money on the taxpayers of Serbia, the people's money, then every honor on your morals. I think it's extremely immoral, that these are flagrant abuses, which need to be held accountable. I suggested that the stenogram be passed on to the prosecutor, so let's see how someone can spend, as if it were Alajbe's straw, the money of the taxpayers of this country. You asked if Mile Dragic paid me? Yeah, I've been defending Milet Dragic since 15 days ago. It is true, I am a lawyer by profession, and it was immediately seen as how what was mentioned as a robbery of the century, in the account of your then defence minister, Mr Davinic, and the president of your party, who said it was a robbery of the century. It ended with trivial things at the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin, but that was now. I'm hired now, and this dates back to two or three years and over, and I've mentioned it all countless times from this pay phone. This law and debate on it have been a good example to repeat and potential, because as long as people in power, or close to them, regardless of which parties, regardless of their name and name, do not find themselves struck by the law and the prosecution, these attempts to enter Europe have no purpose at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4224	I am informing the MPs that the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Legislative Committee will take place on 16 October 2008, starting at 15 o'clock in the Blue Salon. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4225	Dearest Vice President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, reporting for violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Almost 20 years ago, when the multiparty system began, I was reporting from this congregation as a journalist. Somewhere in 1991-1992, a representative of the opposition spoke similarly of the then Milosevic government as Mr Batic spoke of a resident party and minister, etc. Then an SPS MP, sitting there, named Batric Jovanovic, went out to protest, similar to Mr Albianic, that it was wrong, that it could not. This opposition MP, I forgot his name, came out and said, "Mr. Jovanovic, why are you angry, all this stuff I said is facts? ". Then there's the replica Mr. Albianic reminded me of. Batric Jovanovic came out and said, "Yes, sir, you're right. They're facts, but they're unacceptable facts. ". What Mr Albianic said really reminded me of Batric Jovanovic. They may be unacceptable, but the facts remain facts no matter how unacceptable. Well, it's a good thing we don't get along, but the facts are hard to discuss. There are competent authorities. You're saying we're inextricable. Well, we did, we're the opposition, you're the government. It's impossible to be like-minded. It's impossible to be like-minded because of what you've been doing and what you're doing. Let's just remember why Kori Udovicki was replaced, I'm talking about the citizens watching the transmission because she discovered that foreign exchange reserves are being held in some obscenity bank in Moscow. When she started pulling foreign reserves out of there, inexplicably, in the middle of the summer, lightning was replaced. Do I have to remind you who was the previous governor of the National Bank who put those foreign reserves in that bank? I don't mention names, but it's one fact that maybe it's not acceptable for someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4226	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Ragush Marina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4227	To make myself known to my colleague Ostojić, so you should be known as the most popular chairman of the National Assembly of Serbia, because at least try to respect the dignity of the MPs and learn their name and name. So thank you. I picked up an article. 225 and 226, and, of course, unacceptable facts and everyday life in the state of Serbia, where we witness a flagrant violation of the existing constitution. So, it's very likely that I wouldn't go out for a pay phone this often these days... Please, the chairman, maintain order and peace in the O.R., because I have no intention of using my voice by yelling at the microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4228	I ask the MPs to listen carefully to Mrs. Ragush's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4229	So, in the part of protecting human and minority rights and freedoms, I hope that this exam will be passed by the ruling majority and will finally be launched by the initiative to set up a committee for the protection of human and minority rights in this prestigious home and that, possibly, it will provide us with an answer as to why this has not been done by 2008. So, we get people with specific problems every day, who drain all the resources that are available to them and remain in the merciless state of everyday existence. The other day I asked a concrete question for Lieutenant Colonel Mancic Zlatan, who has the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia, who is required to return to him, to return to the service. Half a year has passed, a man has no means to support his family. My colleagues, I would really like to ask you, it is about fate in the state of Serbia, about a man who starves daily, and because of the executive authority, his family suffers. I would ask the competent services of the Assembly to stenogram the instructions to the Ministry of Defence and to have an emergency Parliament club and all MPs of this House get an answer as to how this man's fate will be resolved. Second question. I hope the chairman doesn't mind me, it's not exactly about the law we're talking about in detail, but it's about everyday life again. Indeed, I have no other way than to put it this way, in front of all MPs, that is to say to the public that the SRS Parliamentary Group is doing its best to protect the constitutional rights of every Serbian citizen, regardless of gender, race, religious or nationality. The gas's up 60%. Impulse accumulation is announced. Inflation is also announced. I demand, as an SRS MP, that an urgent answer be given to what will be given by the government in this country, what will the government do to protect the fundamental human rights of Serbian citizens, such as the right to work and the right to live? I'm sorry I overstepped for three minutes. In these 34 seconds, which lasts, I only talked about ordinary lives of citizens, who have no other option but to discuss them like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4230	Thank you. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment tabled by MP Dejan Mirovic. So, the amendment, in practice, refers to the decision, Article 28(1), which is to say, 'at the latest within a year', is replaced by the words'six-month deadline'. The reasons for this amendment are that the amendment in Article 28 is important because Article 4 of the same article states that the procedure for the permanent confiscation of assets is urgent. The period of one year given to the public prosecutor that, after the judicial end of the criminal proceedings, a request for permanent confiscation of property arising from the offence is, for that reason, unacceptable. It has already been said about this amendment, it is unacceptable that this process of pressing charges until the judicial end of the dispute takes so long. It's not clear why so many deadlines are being given to the prosecutor, is it because the prosecutor is going to be running investigations very quickly? Is that why the prosecutions are overbooked? I think it's reasonable for the government to accept this six-month deadline, if that's what it's supposed to be. I've been thinking about the deadline being three months, but since it's some new directorates, some new authorities, I think it's quite reasonable that it's a six-month deadline, not to let the prosecutor go so long after the dispute is over, to initiate a procedure for the permanent confiscation of property. I think it's a six-month deadline, absolutely, acceptable. I have to point out this time that I can't accept that this institution, the Justice Department organ, the Directorate, is forming at all. I think all of this was to be settled through an executive procedure, through regular courts. Madam Minister, there are several letters from the municipalities of Guča, Luciani, Mininica, Tutin, Vranjačka Banja, to remove municipal courts. Imagine, at this point, we're discussing forming some new directorates, and some new courts are shutting down, they're building up where some departments aren't shut down. Imagine the situation in Guca, Luciani, Tutin, Vranjska Banja. Come on, Vranjska Banja is near the King, so it can somehow be accepted, although it's not right. You know that a few years ago there, the Court was renovated, that an impressive building was built, that it was a review court in Serbia's territory. But to return to Guch and Luciane. The people of that area will have to go 50 km to the courts. If they're building departments there, it's a matter of the jurisdiction of these departments, what are these departments going to do, will only some days be scheduled for trial? It's not right, in principle, from the movie "The Marathons Run the Honorary Circle", when they say – the cinema works again. You know, the cities that are the municipalities, which are the centers, are supposed to advance, and they should also become, perhaps, cities. We've got more cities now, 30. How many municipalities we've turned into cities, and now some city-municipalitys we're breaking down to, practically, smaller towns. Destroy them that way. In each country, the levers of the authorities are legislative, executive and judicial authority. It can't be acceptable that a city-municipality doesn't have an adequate court, like so far. First of all, it cannot be acceptable for parties, which will have to travel to some cities, which have huge costs. In that situation, we don't even think enough about the administration that works in these cities, about extremely small personal incomes, you'll admit that they're extremely small, and we don't think about lawyers in those communities, who are going to have to go to other cities, and you know that they're always favoring domestic lawyers in some ways. It is not all the same for a Belgrade lawyer to go to Vranje in some procedures, as it produces high costs. What's gonna happen to these people, like the judges? Here, to tell the truth, letters come and people are worried. Only a free judge, a judge who's not loaded, can judge. At this point, the situation is extremely tense and people are worried. How will they judge and judge? Now they're not thinking about whether or not they're going to be resented by the authorities, whether or not they're going to be elected tomorrow. Therefore, this situation is extremely unpopular, and I would return to the Directorate again, to introduce such an organ, and we would remove the courts. Where's the logic? It doesn't make sense. However, it is certain that this law, the bill of confiscation of property, came from a crime, is a good law. We have an institution, we introduce into the law the responsibility of a legal person, a responsible person, but no one in this country asks a question – what about those parties in the process where a judicial verdict is required to commit an act to the trustee? So, what about the debtors, how are we going to get the debtors to carry out their obligations to the trustees? I'll tell you that in the practice I've been working in, it's unpopular that debtors are more protected from creditors. We are introducing fines for everyone here tomorrow, as Cedomir Jovanovic just said, for 120 MPs. We force them to report the property, and if they don't report it, they'll be punished by a prison sentence. It's okay. The legal person is responsible for the criminal act of the responsible person, and it can be accepted, but let us bring something in the executive procedure and make a commitment to the debtor, because in this way we protect some people who have conducted some litigation for many years and cannot exercise their rights. So, we're putting everything in order, and the most sensitive link in the judicial system chain, the executive procedure and the obligation of the debtors from the judicial verdicts, is not going to come to order. So I think it's absolutely unacceptable to form the Directorate in this way. Directorates have so far played a role of special organisations, are bringing in some sublegal acts, some regulations in some other institutions, and this directive reminds me, practically, of the warehouse, the storage of some property, and then, behind that, some things that are unacceptable, but I will explain through some other amendments. First of all, taking away a moving thing without anyone else being found guilty. So, the presummation of innocence is being emphasized here, but I'm not going to say everything now because I've submitted the amendments. I think that the government should accept this amendment, it doesn't take so much wide space to give the prosecutor until the indictment is brought to an end, until the dispute is brought to an end; therefore, after a year, he is initiating some procedure. I think you should accept that, if that's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4232	Thank you. On the occasion of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4233	Mrs. Judith, I only volunteered to convince the public that there is no amendment that can fix such a bad bill. I hope that if I come out a few more times about the amendment, to prove that this bill, in fact, will legalize crime. But to pick up where I left off. This law, in essence, is trying to convince us that we don't know what the purpose of the punishment is. What's the point of punishment? The purpose of punishment is to prevent crime from being committed. Can this text of the bill, if it passes as a law, act preventively and as a warning to some not to commit crimes? He can't. It's very simple and simple. What crimes are covered, or should they be covered by this bill? Only those crimes whose motive is, can be said, the aim of carrying out crimes, obtaining some material benefits, some gains, the acquisition of some material values. I use these words on purpose, to realize that, as you experts know how to say, basically what is called business, there is also some material value acquisition. Where is this thin line to say – acquiring material values is a crime, obtaining material values is a business? Is there one in this law? No, he doesn't belong here. Is there any other regulations? There is. What is this regulation? In addition to many other regulations, it is the Criminal Code, which describes every crime, as a criminal act, as the elements of the crime. Let's assume the situation, we have these who stole our two laptops. The laptop is based on the name of the City Committee of the SRS; someone's taken on the lapels, doesn't return, brought here to the Assembly. You support it. Not you, Mrs. Judith. Currently, only Boris Tadic supports it and no one else, no party supports it, nor does this unauthorized stay of some people here, everyone is disgusted, but Boris Tadic is holding it. Of course, I'll make sure it's a stone that pulls Boris Tadic back, and he'll pull him back, be safe. We take the situation that someone for some crime, or for some crime, and in order for that crime to be committed, let's say, a cigarette smuggling, had to have an insider in customs and police, come up with some initial capital. This initial capital has been invested as a founding agent for some of its businesses and someone remembers to say after 20 years – everything that's been done now has come from a crime and needs to be taken away. Maybe it was ten years ago that man was on TV as a successful businessman. How do you finish this job without having to bear in mind the transitional and final provisions and the fact that there is no retroactivity? The story of retroactivity has been artificially avoided here, because this law treats something already regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code. Look at the irony of fate. Someone at the Ministry was working on this bill, the one from the Resistance -- a terrorist organization. Now they're giving us lectures on modern European laws, and they're burning the Assembly, they're fighting in the Resistance over those couples. Now the Resistance has deployed nicely. There's a few of them in the DS, a little bit of home somewhere. For example, this crime has not been prosecuted at all, as well as the beating of Milanovic, the incursion of Customs, the incursion of NIS. Boris Tadic, with Vuk Jeremic, got into NIS, not to talk about banks, everyone knows that. How can you enforce this law? I return to what was the subject of the discussion this morning, when it is said in one of these provisions that there will be no temporary confiscation of property, or certain things, if these things, under the provisions of the Executive Procedure Act, would be necessary for some normal life of that suspect. What kind of criminal, who has acquired great wealth by committing a crime, if there is nothing to be taken from him, but what is necessary for an elementary life? Doesn't that seem a little crazy to you? In that sense, all these amendments which point to the contradiction of the first position with the Article. 25, 27 and 28. It's a bill of law. So that initial feller reproduces abnormal states in the bill and you give material to write the amendments, counting on amendments to improve the text. It is impossible to improve this text, because we did not get an answer to the question why the provisions of these two criminal laws are not applied in court practice. It's the beginning and the end. Why aren't they applied? What's stopping the judges? We have a situation that, perhaps, in the lighting of a crime, the assets of a natural person are present. On the basis of that seized property, or something that came out of some crime, someone made an empire. You establish a criminal offence. Who are you going to return this illegally acquired property to? A damaged physical person or a state? On what basis of the state? If someone stole my car, so he taxied for years while the criminal procedure was going on, and it was found that a crime was committed, so my car's coming back, I'm being compensated for the damage to that car. If, by any chance, I was a taxi driver, so I couldn't do the work because my car was taken from me, I have the right to escape. You put it all in favour of the budget. If you think this is how you finish something that you started with the Extraprofit Act, then you're wrong. In the law on extraprofit, extraprofit tax, etc., which fell to you before the federal constitutional court, 11 members were controversial, 7 fell. Of course, these will never decide in the Serbian Constitutional Court, as it has been transferred. It is an absolutely unconstitutional law, even so poorly defended by those who wrote it, Pajtic wrote it, Vednelic, Rakic, Dragor Hiber, that I do not order further experts who are prone to legal delusions. If that wasn't achieved by a few billion, as it was said, it was reduced to about 80 million marks and it came to Karic, if you think you can end this this way, you can't finish that idea. I'm telling you at first, even a better lawyer, and if it wasn't a bologna by chance, it would have torn your whole concept directly in court, in court. You'll have a situation, which you don't see now, you don't want to, maybe, admit it, but in a few years, since this is practically applied from March next year, you'll see how the judges will say it – we can't apply this law. You don't want this law to apply as a law, as a norm. You want this law to frighten anyone the public says is rich, or tycoon, or break away from the embrace of the Democratic Party. I don't blame you MPs, 99% of you have nothing to do with this, for these things I blame very specific people in the Democratic Party. The pyramid is headed by Boris Tadic, then Dragan Djilas, then Miki Rakic, who listens and listens, etc. There are security guards, who keep the Democratic Party here, who have exchange offices in Montenegro, etc. Serbia is a very small country, it knows everything, remember. It's impossible to get around some facts. It's only a matter of days before the evidence is provided. This is a bad job. With this, you won't even be able to identify yourself with the Council of Europe Commission that deals with these matters. It's impossible for you to legitimize. The law is bad. Why didn't you influence the judges to apply the existing two laws, with all the risks that exist to protect these assets? Just to remind you, in 2001, the large amount of drugs that was the subject of the crime couldn't be kept in court, because there's no room, so it was stored in a bank vault. Is that right? And out of it came a new affair, who was carrying it, why he was carrying it, who was swimming, who was prodding, who took the money. That's what happened. Maybe that's how I feel about it, but that's how it was. What about the other items that were taken away? Same thing. Now you're going to concentrate it just in the framework of some direction and you're supposed to be holding it under some control to relieve the judges, prosecutors, etc., but you're forming the Unit for Investigations. That investigation unit will have the authority to listen, this and that, as money launderers, etc. The money laundering isn't covered here, you know. Money laundering and terrorist financing are not covered by this bill. I don't have time to explain to you by these provisions. Why is it that the law, why should something be done in the system, saw a frog that was soaring in horses, and so did she. What do you get like that? More effective fight against organised crime, more effective fight against bribery and corruption? Excuse me, please, that's all in government, that's all in executive power. Why should we now legally clear something that is an internal matter? Mr. Todorovic read to us, probably two more days, he can read these legal thefts based on a democratic wage decision. On the basis of a democratic decision on salaries, we have employees, tenants. The drivers in the Assembly receive $15,000, cafe cooks receive 15 thousand, but, at the same time, "Mile Asshole" can be adviser to the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic for recycling. What does an actor have to do with recycling? He says - I am a worthy member of the Democratic Party, I have helped them and they must somehow make amends to me. Where do you put it for recycling? If you haven't solved that, if you don't have a normal, healthy attitude, why are you forcing us to discuss these laws? Of course, we use the opportunity to remind citizens that with this crew and this bus company called the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no stable driving, they drive without a driver's license. How can you let someone who doesn't have a driver's license drive you? Don't. But we'll figure it out, probably one day. The way I see it, that day is coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4234	Thank you. National MP Mr Miroslav Markicevic, on the amendment. There are six minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4235	MPs and citizens of Serbia, supporting Mr Srdjan Spasojevic's amendment to Article 28, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, I would also like to open several issues that I think are important in the fight against corruption in our country. A few days ago, I started, under Article 226, one question for this speaker and for now I have an answer from a state authority, and I want the minister of justice to answer me in front of the citizens of Serbia, what, if she heard me, would she do and what would she start? Namely, what's this about? The municipal court in Cačka, and that is Judge Vladan Filipovic, in the legal case of the prosecutor - the Serbian Orthodox monastery Vujan, represented by iguman Jovan Nikitovic, against the defendant – the social enterprise "The natural resort of Gornja Trepca" of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Republic of Public Defence and the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, Therazia No. 23/6 Belgrade, in order to ban the sale of property, brought 15. 8. 2008 next solution: "The proposed provisional measure is being adopted, so the defendants, the social enterprise "The natural resort of Gornja Trepca" in Gornja Trepca, in the Republic of Serbia, the Privatisation Agency Belgrade, are being made available in any way, advertising, giving and receiving offers for disputed immovableities, receiving money in the deposit on behalf of the sale and closing of sales contracts on the sale of disputed immovableities". Do you know what the result of all this is? Privatisation was performed, people applied and bought everything that was brought by the court. This is where Mr. Spasojevic started the topic of abolishing municipal courts in small municipalities. I ask the question, it seems to me that the town of Cachak is the sixth or seventh largest in this country, and I also understand the importance of the Municipal Court in Cačka – is it possible that corruption at the Privatisation Agency is possible if one state body does not respect the decision of the state authority? For me, as a citizen and members of New Serbia, the decision of the court is a law and I have always complied with such a decision, I don't know how much I didn't like it, and there were such decisions when some regimes were in power. So, I ask the question, especially because the Guardian of Citizens, we from New Serbia like to say -- a people's lawyer, told him, after I handed him these papers, that he started the procedure, and that the public of the Republic of Serbia, there are many cases in our country, will be informed of what he did. If you promise me you'll run something, I'm willing to hand these papers to you, too, in front of TV cameras, but only with a promise to initiate the procedure. Because something like this happens in many parts of Serbia, not only when it comes to the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church. I don't know if I should remind you that the Restitution Act was passed in 2006 on the property of religious and church communities. So here is the tax on several-tenths of cadastar plots with numbers, where the court requires that advertising be banned, let alone sales. So, city officials from Cacca and interested people tried to stop it, relying on the court's decision, relying on the rule of law, were at the Privatisation Agency, Madam Minister, that day, in Belgrade, and were told to go home and sleep peacefully, that everything is clear here. They didn't make it halfway to the Ibar Highway, to Cačka, they were told that privatisation had already been made and that someone had bought the Trepche spa and church property. Please, I believe that you will initiate this procedure, as you listen very carefully to me, I understand that you want to take these papers and initiate the procedure, according to your jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4236	Thank you to the MP. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4237	I won't take up much of your time. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure because I'm looking for an explanation. I'm asking for an explanation from this assembly, which is why the price of gas was up 60% the day before yesterday? That's what I'm asking for next. Day 11. The 07th price of oil barrels was on the world market for $142, and today it's $72. Unless we get that explanation, the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina will no longer participate in the work of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4238	Thank you to the MP. We will forward your question to the Resolute Ministry of Energy. The MP, Mr Batic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, I support the amendment of my colleague, Srdjan Spasojevic, but what needs to be the legislator's fundamental intensity when it comes to the bill, is that there are no untouchables, not to be, as our people would say, a tiny fish victim. Everything I'm saying, I'm talking from some experience. 34 or 35 years ago, when I started working as an intern at the Public Attorney's Office, and later in the property-legal service, there was a Law on the Investigation of the Origin of Property. It was a big pomp, and media and every other, now it will be established... Can I have your attention?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4240	I would ask the MPs to listen carefully to a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4241	A good voice can be heard far, and a bad voice can be heard further. So, I say, it was with a big pomp, I directly participated in it by a function that, thirty and a few years ago, I was performing. What happened? The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. The victims of this law, they were spent in enormous state money, they were some owners of independent trades, small businesses, at the time when they were just beginning to work that concept of small businesses and, in the end, of this huge campaign, and of the state and social and media, there was nothing. So the point and essence of this law, and it needs to be constantly and potent to be the spirit of this law, is that there is no untouchable. We've mentioned that on many occasions. That there are no untouchables, means that any possibility of politicalisation and the existence of party interests and the influence of party officials or members is excluded when it comes to this law. This is not enabled in the current text, if no amendment is accepted. I mentioned the other day, I'll mention it now. Some countries in our environment, which we believed were not very different from us, that some relapses of the past and there continue to surface, began to teach us lessons as they wanted, at least, to move forward, both Croatia and Bosnia. There was a monstrous murder of a girl in Zagreb. It led to the fall of two ministers and a police chief. Here they kill a man in a protest rally of the opposition, and nothing to anyone. Nobody even apologizes to the family of a tragically murdered boy. In Bosnia, the arrests of Naser Oric, who is the winner of the war, the war hero, made the state, among other things, and for his crimes. I took that as an example. He can't be untouchable. Others understand, which wants to move quickly towards Europe, that no segment of public government should be untouchable. Since, in some strange way, the controversy about the future network of courts has been started here, Madam Minister, as your former associate, not to say boss, we worked together for years, I suggest you be very careful about restructuring the network of courts. Otherwise, I support the triage being carried out in some way and there is really no point in making a selection and, perhaps, reducing the number, especially of municipal courts, but there are other examples. This is what I'm saying because I got a letter from the president of the White Church municipality, the White Church District Attorney's Office, the opinion of the Court of Justice College in the White Church, and then a letter from 11 colleagues from the White Church, who indicate something that we really do seem like an argument to be appreciated. There's a decades-old tradition, not to say. Since 1754, at the time of the military border, there was a judiciary in the White Church, so-called. The 'Popovish Court', the 'Judge of the magistrates', the 'Peace Court', the 'Kingdom's Fate Table', so, when the kingdom of SHS was formed, so-called 'Kingdom'. The Fate Table, and later the White Church District Court, and after disbanded the military border, the King's World Court. The land book was established in 1873 and this is what the White Church court building looked like; since 1894 it has been attached to justice, to the judiciary, more than a century ago. I would especially point out something that is a letter to the Association of the Southern Banat, because in the White Church there are four languages: Czech, Romanian, Hungarian and Serbian, and the Czech minority and communities in the White Church are the most numerous in Serbia. The Czech language is now in official use in the municipality of Bela Church, the only one in the territory of Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia. So there are both historical and traditional reasons and abundance of personnel. If I tell you that from the White Church the former minister of justice and the professor of the Faculty of Law, Gligorija Gercic, that in the White Church he tried as judge of the district court Dr Ferdo Chulinović, it is evident that she was a dissident of justice personnel and that she could not and should not, with that I agree, only the number of court cases to be the only criterion, but to look at all these circumstances. Hence my appeal, Mrs Malovic, to carefully look at all the elements and not to be cut over the knee, post-poto. It's a request relating to the White Church. Some colleagues mentioned other places. Secondly, that this, however, is done as soon as possible to the public, because over-icing, panic has already begun, we are already covered by telegrams and written materials of this kind, that in some ways it is said that, regardless of this only criterion, in this selection, it will take care of other criteria and circumstances, and geographical position, and history, and tradition, and judicial staff, and that in some ways, it will find some possibility not to be, absolutely, strictly on the basis of the number of court cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4242	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4243	Dear President, dear colleagues, please inform the president of the Serbian Parliament as soon as possible to speak to counterpart Canka about what he said earlier, because because of the tension he was under and the way he addressed and said his words, I think something very serious is happening. Mr. Canak, an esteemed colleague, went out for a congregation pay phone and said, speaking to the entire Assembly, that the price of barrels of oil has changed over the past month from about $160 to $70 and that we have to answer why the price of certain derivatives in our country is so large and the situation on the world market is very different. He threatened that his party's MPs would leave the Serbian Parliament. I don't think he went to the right address, if that was his first thought and his first wish, because he could, perhaps, address the Committee on Energy, the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which form the price. He went on, so he even threatened that his MPs would leave the Serbian Parliament if they did not get the right answer. The other day, I asked the Serbian Parliament to form a committee for Vojvodina and, even, a subcommittee, if possible, in the Security Committee, again on Vojvodina, so I think Mr Chanka's statement was not only about the price, but, under the tension and threat he said, I think something is underneath it. So I ask you to inform the President of the Assembly as soon as possible, to speak to counterpart Canko, not in her professional capacity, but in this first, as president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4244	On the amendment, MP Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4245	Gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Justice, I would like to support this amendment by Srdjan Spasojevic. I would also use this short time to say something about the abolition of these municipal courts. I come from the municipality of Bruce, which is 650 square kilometers territorially large, with over 21 thousand inhabitants. I'm asking the Minister of Justice not to have this court lifted, because the Bruce municipality has been decommissioned, there are 650 square miles in 58 inhabited areas. It is mostly a mountainous area, and the border between the AP Kosovo and Metohija is 30km. It is mainly bordered by the municipality of Leposavić and one part of Podujeva. You might think that if you cancel the Court of Justice in Bruce, the one who's due for trial will arrive, and his village is 50 kilometers away from the centre of Bruce. If he went to the neighboring municipality of Kruševac, he would need 100 kilometers, or to Alexandrovac – 80. I think this is incomprehensible and inconceivable for the citizens of the Bruce municipality, given that the Brussels Municipal Court has existed for 150 years. It was made during Milos Obrenovic, so it served during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, during Joseph Broz, so there's no point in you ending it now. Please, on behalf of the 21,000 locals of the Bruce municipality, leave us the Bruce City Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4246	Since it's 13.50, I'm setting a break to 15 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4247	We're continuing our work. According to Article 85(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly today will extend the work after 18 hours, until the search is completed in detail on the starting point of the agenda. Also, a number of MPs were interested in working. Yeah, and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow we'll be working on these agenda points. Of course, if we don't finish tomorrow. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me remind you, although yesterday over an hour, at the end of the working day, we talked about this, the LDP Parliamentary Group has asked Peter Skundric, the Energy Minister, to answer several questions directly related to gas collection in Serbia. We asked to hear the answer, i.e. an explanation of the most important issues, which is the economic justification of gas collection, gas price cost structure, or gas price structure, then whether there is an intermediary in the purchase of gas and why this intermediary exists, what is the commission that the intermediary receives for selling gas, as well as the most important issue, and that is the economic justification of that price. Today we're taking the opportunity to add a few more. I reported to this member of the Rules of Procedure because the minister was obliged to answer the question of MPs within 30 days. However, no answer has come to this day. We made another request yesterday, although it doesn't stand anywhere. We have made this request formal today, which is, referring to Article 199(2). - that the President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, at least once a month determines the day when individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions on a topic of topic. I don't know, Madam Chairman, whether it was passed to you, since you didn't have a session last night. We asked the chairman, or president of the National Assembly, to invite Mr Peter Skundric, the Minister of Energy today to the Assembly of Serbia, who would answer to MPs about something that I think 90% of the MPs of this Parliament think is the most powerful topic at this point. So we didn't get any answers. We're told that in writing, a request must be submitted. We did that, too. I must say, a member of 199 does not mean any written form, since it is not a parliamentary matter, but a minister's answer to our questions. Please answer me now whether you have been transferred, whether you have done so, and if you have not, is it possible tomorrow for Mr Petar Skundric to come to this assembly and answer this question, or on Sunday, anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4249	Thank you. Your question has been forwarded to the Government, or to the Minister of Resort, and I expect an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4250	President-in-Office, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for the violation of Rule 27 and for the violation of Rule 200 of this Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I must remind you that on September 5th, we had an assembly debate in this room concerning the ratification of the Agreement, oil-gas, with the Russian Federation. That's when I asked the Minister of Energy from this place. The Minister of Energy said he would answer those questions from the scene. After I finished my address, you said from there that the answers to the questions I asked would be delivered to all MPs. Twenty days later, I reminded you that, in accordance with Rule 200 of this Rules of Procedure, in fact, the deadline in which the minister had to answer me had expired. He should have answered within eight days, unless the questions raised to him were very complex and required longer work. That's when I warned you that the deadline was 30 days. You said, don't worry, your questions will come up. Today is the 41st day since I asked those questions and yesterday we tried to start here. Your right hand, or Mrs. Comic, first took my word, did not allow me to speak. After that, however, we were able to explain what it was about. Please use your authority to apply this Rules of Procedure and get answers to the questions we have asked. These are the questions: why was the gas dealer introduced, who owned the company Jugorosgas, who received all the benefits from Jugorosgas? What makes the commission 5%? If these are questions we can't get answers to, at least we can get such an answer that we know we can't ask questions. The reason I restarted it yesterday is not only my parliamentary question, but also the situation in our country. He picked up 60% gas. Your party colleague, Minister Skundric, Minister of Energy, is asking why gas collects 60%, he said, I don't know, I'm just a minister, and I use gas and it reflects on me. I don't want to get into how many of his receipts are, and how many are the Lords who work in this assembly, who came to me today and told me – every honor on the open subject, I pay gas 10 grand. It's a technical face that works in this congregation. I want to tell you that the topic is terribly hot, that it is necessary for Minister Skundric to come here and explain to the MPs and the public why the gas jumped 60%. I just have one more thing to point out, I'm very glad that this idea of finding out why the gas jumped 60% joined and one party from the ruling coalition, more specifically, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. I hope that the rest of the ruling coalition will understand the importance of this issue and that we will finally see the Minister of Energy Skundric here to answer questions that really interest all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4251	The minister was obliged to respond within 30 days, you're absolutely right. Today, I'm going to re-submit the question, and I'm going to conclude that you haven't received an answer at the time provided for by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4252	Your Honor, I don't think we understand each other very well. We doubt, in fact, the minister's will that he will answer that question or, if he answers, today that question has a completely different meaning, as well as an answer, rather than September 5th. That's why we don't think it's enough for him to respond in some kind of writing form that we know in advance. We will not be satisfied, because the issue has spread, because at that time, as 90% of the citizens of this country, we were not aware that such an increase is possible. You weren't there, I assume they passed on to you, picked up the gas on Tuesday, if I'm not mistaken, 60%, which is not linear, so there's been a variety of complications in society. This morning, I had a conversation with representatives of the Vojvodina farmers and let me illustrate it to you by an example. In fact, 60% of gas collection refers to households that use gas directly, and to those that are connected to so-called. The district heating system refers to a 30% increase. So now the citizens of Vojvodina find themselves in some strange situation, which is that people who live home to home, one family of gas has accumulated 60%, which in their particular case means they will pay about 18,000 dinars a month, and another home, which is connected to the so-called circumstances. remote heating, this collection only reflected 30%. I can also say that we are not satisfied with this further delay. Mr. Marash reminded you, I think, two weeks ago, that we asked that question about the price of gas. But then you responded the same way. I don't doubt your good intentions, but we simply don't expect Mr. Skundric to answer now, nor can that answer be so simple that it can be sent to the paper list. That'd be more like avoiding an answer. That's why we're looking, I'll do it again, yeah, by Article 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, call the Minister, which is your business obligation. If necessary, we will gather support from other parliamentary groups. I'm sure they'd provide support for that. So, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to determine at least once a month on a proposal from the parliamentary group that some government minister will answer parliamentary questions on the topic. I don't know if there's a more current topic than this one. As you know, yesterday, Belgrade's mayor, for the sake of gas and mules, asked to collect municipal services in Belgrade as well. So, we're in front of a chain of gatherings. Citizens expect these answers from us. In order to be able to give these answers, or to make it clear to the public – why so much collection, I think we should have an open conversation with the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4253	Thank you. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament on the basis of an article. 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, in particular, to the article. Article 34(3) of this proposal. All previous speakers, or members of this bill, have treated that part, at least until now, when it is not yet known whether someone has committed a crime, that it has been established by a verdict, and that some benefit has arisen from it. This member of the law is the member who came to that point, in the process, where it was clearly established that the person concerned committed a criminal offence for which a judicial verdict was convicted and that it was found to have benefited from the crime. The amendment I have made requires that Article 3 be deleted from this Article 34. Why? It is proposed to delete this attitude because it is contrary to the basic intensities of this law – that no one can benefit from the crime committed. The proposed solution can also be the subject of abuse in practice. On this amendment, the Government took a position and gave an explanation – that it did not accept the amendment, for the reason it is a provision. The 34th century 3. The draft law provides only the possibility for the court to leave part of the property by its decision on the permanent confiscation of assets, if the maintenance of the owner, or the person he is obliged to maintain, is at risk. The Court of Justice may, by decision, leave only the most necessary part of the assets necessary for maintenance, in accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Procedure Act. Now I'm going to tell you that this is a completely unacceptable and inadmissible law. You heard about all those preparatory members, who talked about how to do it in a moment until it was known, how long it would take until it was found that a person committed a crime, that the verdict was confirmed, etc., and then you make sure that the property of that person who committed the crime, to the final decision, be careful, that he was supported, and then we finally came to this position. Now, let me ask. First, this law will not apply equally to all citizens in this country. You know that in this country, there are many who have gone back a number of years, and at a level that is unimaginable for an ordinary and normal man. The head of our committee group here has only opened the top of that ice dream, where the yellow company, since in power, or these last eight years, has opened up the possibility that enormously wealthy individuals, who are part of their capital, founding capital for various jobs that they entered into, were likely to have acquired a criminal act. Especially lately, by mentioning this Kristo, and others, and I will mention them, you will see the point, the fact is that in our society, under the leadership of the Democratic Party and the 'yellow company', many crimes, in a magical way, do not come to this position I'm talking about now, i.e., do not give that verdict, many are being noted in time and escaped from this country. I will draw your attention that we have cases of Janjusevic, Kolesar, Radulovic, and then that unfortunate director of Elektroditsuk, who has supplied 50 apartments to himself, I suppose he could not have done so in a fair way – they will never come under the influence of this law. Systemically, the law should be resolved in another way, so that all citizens in this country are treated equally. We have examples that the ordinary world, ordinary people, in some of its life's problems, in this transition in which the state, comes under the influence of much more stringent and restrictive laws. I'll give you a few examples. Let's just say, if you got caught for electricity, like I said the other day, they'd sell you a state apartment. They're going to give it to you for good, and they're going to throw you out of your house, your apartment, and you're going to settle your debt to the state, and that's a kind of confiscation of property, or taking away some benefit, regardless of whether a man is able to live on afterwards. In the bill of this law, this article, we take care of some who have been cut short, and fat, we take care a lot of care about whether they, such a solution, whether members of their family, who have also enjoyed the liquids of what, for example, the head of the family has obtained himself by doing crimes, will be damaged, and we are in a situation where those who have been damaged never properly degraded. In this article of the law, it doesn't say where the money that gets taken that way goes. He is leaving, probably, to the budget and will again be used to make it possible for someone else, elsewhere, to buy chairs, buy spoons, etc., where thousands and thousands of euros go to some nonsense. The people in this country expect this congregation to pass laws that will treat their lives at the moment, their problems, not to make laws that will have many holes, in which those who have a lot of money, who have enormously enriched themselves, will find space in justice and the hand of the law. I urge this law to be reconsidered. The people expect the laws to be more summary, more precise, that they all apply to each other equally, that the ordinary world can expect that it does not finance tycoons in its work, which in this country for years already buy everything that is valuable. Their businesses are going to the era. It's a kind of theft. I'm sorry Mrs. Secretary's not here right now, but I'm guessing there's someone else here who's gonna listen very closely to this. I'm not a lawyer. I expect you from the judiciary to listen a little bit, go out to the streets, among the people, and listen a little, and do not go according to it. Justice is one thing, and the other is justice. The people expect you to bring these two things closer together, because it means life first, and that other means shortening those life streams. I would also like to remind myself that one Serbian citizen, Mari Popov of Zrenjanin, was in a very perfidious way kidnapped property, i.e. the state did not take care of it in a way that would lead to those who commit crimes. Mrs. Mara Popov has entered a 27,000-dollar debt to Electrodistribution in that city. She was in a difficult material situation, with a patient in the house, and she came into a situation that, perfectly legally, by judicial means, according to the laws applicable to ordinary people, her 67-square-square-square apartment would be sold for 5,000 euros, and then the lady would be expelled from her apartment on the street. The lady came to Belgrade, checked out in Zrenjanin, because she had no place to sleep anymore. She can't apply anywhere in Belgrade, because no one's going to turn her in. The lady does not exist in this country, nor in the voter's list, has no voting rights, has no address, has no right to return, to report to the Centre for Social Work, because there as the first thing they ask for jurisdiction on the application of the apartment. I will use the right to provide Mrs. President of Parliament with the documents of Ms. Mare Popov, so that Madam President may find the modalities in the law and help the lady in question to come out of these problems in the course of her activities. Also, I suggest that this law be considered a little bit more carefully. I propose, even, that this law be withdrawn from further consideration, because a large number of speakers today draw attention to the fact that the law is full of holes and holes, which will certainly be misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4255	Thank you. The word is Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4256	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Justice Department, has just come to us with the answer we've been waiting 40 days for, to the questions we've asked. Reporting in accordance with Article 201. "Unless the MP is satisfied with the answer, he has the right to ask an additional question." This, Madam President, is just one part of what we are trying to achieve from our rights yesterday and today. We've got an answer, quite a shrub, and we're gonna have to ask him some questions. However, our request remains for Mr Skundric, the energy minister, to appear before the MPs. I think you'll do your best, or I hope, and we'll ask you to do your best to bring him here. In the answer we received, only partially presented the questions that were raised, during this debate, to Mr Skundric. The answer we got tells us that a strange ownership structure in Jugorosgas was introduced, and even weirder reason why the middleman was introduced. Now I have to ask a further question. Since, on the basis of a contract concluded in 5.6.1996, the company "CENTRAL ME ENERGY & GAS AG, Vienna, Austria, which now owns 25% "Yugorosgas", I would like to get an answer to the question when did this company become the owner of 25% of the stake in "Yugorosgas"? ". Also, one inaccuracy has been expressed here, that the Serbian government has never received a request from the NIS to buy 25%, whose owner probably became the Austrian firm. That's the inaccuracy in this answer. The Serbian government did receive a request from the NIS to buy out the ownership stake of the "Progress Gas Trading" for four million euros, as far as we were selling it. I have to read, for the sake of the public, and the reason why a mediator was introduced, which is why Serbian citizens pay 5% more expensive gas. Because "Yugorosgas", just because it buys, does nothing, takes 5% of the commission, and the reason why this mediator was introduced since 1 January 2007, is because the Russian side has stated that Gazprom's policy is based on the natural gas supply of the country's natural gas markets through the daughter of Gazprom, which was founded in those countries. It makes me set up... Let me point out, Madam President, that you would not interrupt me, I have the right to five minutes. I have to ask the question I asked that day. Mr Milos Milankovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4257	It's not about today's agenda, but I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4258	It's about the answer I got from the Minister of Energy, which is yesterday afternoon and today, here's the topic, but I believe it's for all the citizens who are heating up on the gas theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4259	Here you go. Finish the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4260	Thank you very much. But please include this time as if I've used it. So then I asked who Milos Milankovic, whom was then the minister of the ruling coalition, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, was appointed instead of Milos Tomic as the director of "Srbijagas". This Mr. Milos Milankovic, after the introduction of Jugorosgas, received an annual award from the company worth 10,000 euros to contribute. Afterwards, this same gentleman himself suggested that, on behalf of the Serbians, he be on the board of directors of the Jugorosgas. Em, what is the issue of conflict of interest, is really the question in whose interest is introduced "Yugorosgas", who takes $40 million a year just because it charges gas for citizens of Serbia, or the Serbian government, or "Srbigas" buys from "Gasprom"? That, I remind you, is at a level of 10 years - $400 million. And then I asked the question, and there is no answer here, will Jugorosgas continue to be a mediator, will Serbian citizens continue to pay gas 5% more expensive? I ask that these also be introduced into the notes and that this question be forwarded to the Minister who, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, is obliged to and to this additional question, i.e. to these additional questions, to answer. Next, we stay at the point. Serbian citizens are paying 60% more expensive gas as of today, or yesterday. It's a terrible blow to the homes that heat up on the gas. I repeat, 80% of Vojvodina territory, i.e. citizens in Vojvodina, or, of 100 percent in Serbia, 80% are gassed in Vojvodina; of course, in Belgrade is a large part. Please make sure Minister Skundric comes. We are not giving up our demand to give us answers to the questions we are asking and to explain to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs why the gas jumped 60% and then we will ask another minister why the impulses are jumping, how much they jump, and whether these are the pre-election promises that you made.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4261	Mr. Andric, then Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4262	Thank you. The answer came and he confirmed everything we talked about these previous days and only strengthened us in the belief that we must insist on Mr Petar Škundric coming to the Assembly. So, I'm reporting for an article. 27th and 199th of your right to appoint a committee, which I will explain. First, I would draw attention to all MPs if the answer had been sent today, after 40 days and a few days of waiting. Only when we blocked the work of the Assembly, yesterday, for an hour, did the Ministry decide to do us a favor, which strengthens us in the belief that we are still insisting today that Mr Petar Škundric comes. It doesn't say what time, probably, during the afternoon. So, first of all, it's scandalous that it doesn't answer any of the questions that we've asked, and in itself, it's scandalous and that this gives an answer to the fundamental question -- that there is an intermediary in the purchase of gas between one country and another. That middleman, we're being pointed at the ownership structure here. It was also said that this was introduced on the Russian side's request. Now that's very complicated, and it's asking a lot of answers, like I said before. So there's a middleman. It is not that we have not received an answer as to what is the price the intermediary gets for being an intermediary, but we do not understand what that intermediary is still doing, except that it charges a commission in between a trade agreement between the two countries, or between the state, on the one hand, and the firm, on the other hand. What is this Austrian firm that owns a quarter of the broker company? Why did this Austrian firm get the right to charge our citizens a commission, as we claim, 5%? Based on what? What has this Austrian firm done to make so much money to the citizens of Serbia? You have completely ignored, Madam President, two of my previous reports. Please, under Article 199, invite Mr Skundric to interrupt what he already has so important to do and to take an hour tomorrow to speak with the MPs in the Serbian Parliament. It is the only way to defend the dignity of the Serbian Parliament. So let us ask him, to answer a bunch of questions that every MP now has, much more than before we got this quasi answer. If that is not the way, use your parliamentary right, schedule a Committee on Mining and Energy, let the minister come and we will also use our right to ask questions on that committee. Because this answer is scandalous, late and, in fact, dusting in the eyes. Only one argument to the minister that he allegedly sent an answer. We do not see an answer from the ministry's response to the fundamental question, which is why the gas in Serbia collected 60%, three days ago. Why is it more expensive today than in any country in the environment, and is it a question of intermediaries, or is it a matter of economic justification for that price? It's a question we want to answer from the minister, and when it does, we're going to have a lot more questions about this particular contract and we're not going to accept the explanation that it's an official secret, because there's no secrets where citizens' money is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4263	Thank you. I will take everything, in accordance with the initiatives you took yesterday and today; or we will schedule a committee, or the minister will come. In any case, I will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4264	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I would like to speak to you personally, Mr President. In these few days as far away as you were, because of the way the Assembly was led, especially in yesterday, we almost came to say – Slavice, come back, everything is forgiven. It's a joke on the side. Of course, an increase in the price of gas, or cubicity for households. I would like, on behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, to be very specific here. We are not eager to see any minister here out of our particular curiosity, to cause him trouble, or to take away his precious time. Since we assume that they work in the interests of Serbian citizens, and given these latest gatherings, there is a serious question – is that so? Last night, the government, or yesterday, urged the citizens of Serbia's RATEL to explain the accumulation of phone subscription and the price of impulses. I must tell you, on behalf of the citizens I represent here, that this is the greatest insult and attack on citizens' intelligence, the explanation that has been given. For the accuracy of the NS Parliamentary Group's stances and NS MPs, since they have been asked here for days to come to the Assembly and explain this many gatherings, the request of the NS, of course, agreeing that they come here, is not that they explain, that they share the pettyly typed sides with explanations why it is, but that they immediately withdraw that shameful decision. So, the requirement for the government of the Republic of Serbia is to immediately abolish consent to this gas collection. I must warn you that we want here, at the pay phone, to oppose our different political opinions, that citizens judge about us. I must warn you that there is a wave of civil protest and civil disobedience. So, citizens will go out on the streets, on the most important roads, and block Serbia, until someone comes to their senses and this decision is lifted. So, I repeat, the request from the NS is not only that the ministers come here, but that they immediately abolish this shameful decision, haughty and ossion. This has been unremembered in the history of all the governments of the Republic of Serbia since the creation of a multi-party system since 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4265	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dusan Maric, then Kenan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. In order to be able to perform the duties of the MP, I demand an answer, an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia – who and how does Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic inform about the state of the country? I ask this question for reasons that two days ago, about 100 days ago, Prime Minister Cvetkovic made the claim that the government was doing a great job in the past period, which is completely out of line with the facts. For short periods, to save time, I say only a few facts: inflation in September – 11%, pensions increased by 10%, but their real value remained the same, gas was raised by 63%, the phone was collected by more than 100%, Belgrade Mayor announced a significant increase in the price of communals; The Hague tribunal was also handed over Radovan Karadzic, one man was killed at the rally, and police beat up the MPs; the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was adopted for nothing, those from the West say – you were free of charge, Mission Eulex performs an additional occupation of Kosovo; of the promised 200 thousand jobs there is nothing. Besides, it's a great five for the prime minister. On this basis, I conclude that the prime minister is not well informed enough and I am looking for an answer to the question – who informs him? I'm taking the opportunity to point out another problem, so I won't answer another time, in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This morning I was interviewing the President of the Great Plan Municipality, Dejan Schulkic. A man grabs his head because of demands of citizens to grant them funds, to grant them financial assistance for treatment. What's this about? It's that in the Great Plan, 20% of the population is not covered by health insurance. It's 10,000 people. In a town 80km away from Belgrade, 10,000 people do not have a health book and cannot be treated. It is mainly workers, 6,000 company workers from the Great Plan, who have been destroyed in the past 10 years, thanks to, above all, DS authorities. The workers are evicted on the street, the companies are standing. Companies can be privatised, the president of the municipality argues there are conditions to privatise businesses, but for unknown reasons not to enter the privatisation process. I request a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the competent health ministry, does it intend to do anything about solving this problem? It's 10,000 people in the Great Plan who don't have a health book and can't be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4267	Thank you. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4268	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored President, I'm advocating a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think we can easily go beyond the requirements of the LDP Parliamentary Group to come to the Serbian Parliament, Energy Minister Mr Skundric, to finally give us answers on gas collection by 60%. It's extremely important that we know what the price structure of that gas is, what is the import price of that gas, because if we go easily over this collection, we're going to be in a position to keep quiet about the purchase of the phone, that tomorrow, maybe, we're going to shut up about the collection of electricity. All of this contributes to an increase in inflation. We believe that maybe there was no need to increase the price of gas by 60%, because if we increase the price of gas by 60%, there will be a linear increase and a commission for the mediator in this business. We demand that the Energy Minister arrive as soon as possible, so he can answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4269	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4270	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 100, in order to point to Article 27's injury. Rules of Procedure. We will no longer, as a parliamentary group, discuss this subject, but I expect you, Madam President, to discuss this with Mr Skundric. It will be quite difficult, in the afternoon of the debate, to discuss amendments, because there is no minister here, so I don't know who we as MPs should talk to. I want to tell you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, why this is important through one example. During talks in which our state negotiating team tried to find an argument to preserve Kosovo within the framework of the Republic of Serbia, at one of the meetings in Vienna, our negotiators asked the Albanian side to return property to the Serbian Orthodox Church. It was one of the official requirements during those negotiations. They came across an argument I wouldn't want the Republic of Serbia to ever meet again. The Albanian side asked representatives of our negotiating team – why did representatives of Serbia, where they performed, above all, as representatives of the Serb people, ask Kosovo officials and Kosovo institutions to respect the Serbian Orthodox Church more than Serbia itself, or why are Albanians now asked to do something that was not ready to do before? I ask you - what will it be like to discuss the price of gas in five or ten years, when we ask those questions to someone who sits in Moscow, if the Energy Minister, who sits 500 metres from the Serbian Parliament, listens to what we are talking about and ignores the need to meet with MPs for two days? Let's say that, perhaps, there's an economic rationale of such high gas prices, a new price, that this argument, on the one hand, has a foothold in disturbed prices on the international market, which are formed periodically, well, even sometimes when there's an oil price drop, we pay those prices at which we bought that oil or gas a few months ago, when the cubic gas or barrel oil had a significantly higher price. I have to ask you, Madam President, when and who has decided that out of 50% stake in a joint venture formed by the Serbian-Russian state, state-owned NIS and Gazprom, half the stake in Serbia is sold to the Austrian company? Who made that decision? This is where the minister told us that he didn't know it and that the Ministry never approved something like that. Who made the decision in 2007 to do that? Do you realize what this is about? If the economic price has to be expressed through a 60% increase, let's see that the state tightens the belt, because it can define categories of people that will be spared taxes, or the state thinks there must always be money for it and for the prices it formulates, and that citizens will pay it by heating it up and not feeding it. I hope that sooner or later, we will return completely to the topics that are important for everyday life, that we will no longer spend our energy on the debates on Kosovo, The Hague, that these difficult issues, which have dug up the trenches here, in Parliament, will in some way be resolved, but that we will have to discuss this then. When did the Serbian state decide to leave 50% of its ownership in a company formed together with the Russian state to the Austrian company? Why does it matter? Because we adopted, we didn't vote for it, but most of them did, in the Assembly, the Energy Agreement with the Russian Federation. That's where the jurisdiction gets intertwined. The company that exists, which has turned out to be new invoices and a 60% raise, is responsible for the design, construction and financing of gas pipeline works, for the exploitation and sale of natural gas, which is transported to these pipelines, to consumers in SRJ, i.e. here, with us in Serbia, and for the possible transit of natural gas across the territory, in order to increase the supply of natural gas from the Russian Federation to Serbia, the region, Europe, etc. How much money will Serbia be left when half of what Serbia gets should be given to an Austrian firm?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4271	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4272	Who decided that? Do you realize how serious these questions are? Do you realize that only this answer from the Ministry of Energy asks us the question of the revision of the agreement we voted for? I think the opposition people, who voted, voted in the best interest, although we disagree. I don't think you've been bought by someone to vote for this agreement. I think you believed in what you voted for. Now here's something that's directly denying the agreement from a month ago. Big problem. Just let us discuss it on time, in the next two, three, five days, just contact the minister and tell us, then we can talk about laws and amendments. If there's no minister, I don't know how we're gonna do it. This, Mrs. Djukic, is indeed a scandal. I'm not accusing Minister Skundric of this contract, he wasn't in the ministry at the time, this is 2007, but he's our talker on this issue. He defended, with Vice President Djelic, the Energy Agreement. Who decides that? This is the DSS, G17, never the Assembly talked about it. Who owns this company? Let's get this straight, and we'll work it out. We are no longer taking part in the debate on this issue, just please answer us as soon as possible – when will we talk to the Minister about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4273	Thank you. I gave the answer. In touch with Minister Skundric, we will assess whether he will come to the Committee or address him here. In any case, two days of debate, your calls and questions, which, indeed, deeply affect the standard of citizens, require his communication with the Assembly. The word is Srboljub Zivanovic, about the amendment. You've got four more not full minutes, but you're free to finish what you planned.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4274	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must inform you, these educational measures have already begun to take effect, so I will now mention his name, citizen Tomislav Nikolic, in order to meet the citizens of Serbia and you MPs that it is Mr. Waste number one. Coming past me, he said, "I'm a thief." That means I won't call him a little thief anymore, but in the future, he's a big thief. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: So he confessed. Yeah, he confessed. But what is very important, gentlemen of Parliament, it seems to me that by this law you want to fool the citizens, to re-convening all of your criminal operations in the coast. It seems to me that this government and this government are actually one big brand of Serbia. It's a big brand because it has big criminals, thieves, mobsters, and you will, probably with 67 of these members, to protect them. I don't know why you wrote so much in this law, when it was only necessary in one or two members, to determine who the thief is, who the criminal is. Because I have to tell you that since 2000, coming to power, you've had as the main thesis, the main flossula - the fight against corruption, crime and thieves. Apparently, all that time since the 1990s, it's been covered by these very theories that you used to use. Ladies and gentlemen, now that 50% of Serbian citizens are starving, when they don't know how they're gonna feed their children in the morning, you're passing this law that needs to protect, in fact, thieves. Everything you've written in these articles is, in fact, protection of criminals and thieves. I need to focus my exposure on one 10, 11 points. First, one of the most important factors in crime and corruption is privatisation. Here are the people, former ministers, who performed the biggest criminal operation, which is privatisation in Serbia; it is Mr. Vlahovic. You should immediately take away everything he stole from Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, what about this anti-corruption council now? How did he function, now, all of a sudden, that advice doesn't work anymore?- I'm sorry. How many times has this council submitted applications to the government and the ministries? Not to mention the crime, you heard from my colleagues that this crime was going through Serbia. I'll tell you how crime runs in certain municipalities, like the Sabac municipality. You can see that the director, i.e. the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Veselinović Radosav, has taken the company "Galeb", i.e. "Mepritlastika". I haven't mentioned him in a long time, but now I'm mentioning him precisely because he should be taken away from him everything he's criminally taken from the Metritlastics Workers, ladies and gentlemen. Not to mention the latest scams in construction firms. You started to deal with the mobsters, and you say, "We have come from Zrenjanin, with some of the Princes of your ranks." That's where you stopped. There was a lesson and a noise for three days, and you stopped there, and you don't mention it anymore. Apparently, it's because of justice, because of the court...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4275	Mr. Zivanovicu, you've been talking longer than you should.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4276	... Here, I'm done, that's very important. I'll get back to you, because I have a large folder containing the great abuses of the municipal government in Šapec. Many of you are laughing here, but it should be a bitter smile for them, because they are your colleagues, from your machine, who command you and who guide you. It's actually a crime. Ladies and gentlemen, we need neither the World Bank nor the IMF, you should just arrest and return what was stolen in Serbia. It would be enough to feed the citizens of Serbia and I believe it would be the richest country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4277	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, someone today, in the afternoon's work, praised Mrs Malovic as one of the few ministers who sits here and participates in Parliament's work and as soon as we commend her, the woman disappears from the O.R. and we have no one to discuss these amendments with again. I did not deliberately report to the Rules of Procedure, but I expect, Madam President of the National Assembly, that you will not force us to insist, according to the Rules of Procedure, that Mrs Malovic return, but that you will do so. Welcome, Madam Minister. I'll wait for Mrs. Secretary to sit down, since I called her, because I wanted to suggest something concrete, that is, to tell her what you should do urgently, and she's in charge of the ministry of which you're headed. A seminar by Serbian judges was held in Vrnjačka Banja a few days ago. At the seminar, it was agreed that Serbia's courts must exclusively comply with the law when it comes to deciding on the requirements of municipal committees, i.e. SRS councilors throughout Serbia. With regard to the mandates of the committees, which, as well as these mandates in the Assembly, have been taken by the group that has been reneged, i.e. which has been excluded from the SRS, and, unlike the parliamentary mandates, for the parliamentary mandates in all municipalities, we have the orderly documentation, contract, authority, resignations, all that is necessary for the resignation to be activated, in accordance with the law, as irrevocable. By yesterday, the courts were doing it correctly, however, today we have received information that what happened yesterday in Kragujevac is not an accident, but that it is that there is some agreement with certain judges, who are under the direct patronage of the 'Yellows', that in all possible ways eskicate the return of the parliamentary mandates of the SRS. Today I received information that, for example, the District Court in Novi Sad... I'm asking you to listen to this, because I'm going to suggest something directly from your jurisdiction. So, on September 25th, for the parliamentary mandates taken from the titel, a motion was filed by the court, since the Assembly of the Municipality did not act by law and did not return its mandates, a complaint was filed to the District Court in Novi Sad, and on October 10th, the same was done for Beocin municipality. Believe it or not, in the Novi Sad District Court, it is said that they treat this as a administrative dispute and that they have 60 days to resolve it. Please, Mrs. Malovic, if you'd like to send your co-workers from the Ministry tomorrow, you know what jurisdiction these things are, and, since you'll be here tomorrow, to let us know what this is really about, is this information that we've received accurate. If so, it's scandalous and we, as in other cases, will apply what the law tells us, and these are criminal charges against unconscious judges, the president of the courts, the president of the council, who is already at stake. The amendment I want to talk about refers to Article 39(3). A bill of this law. The amendment was submitted on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, it was proposed to take item 3. The bill is deleted. Article 39, to which the amendment has been submitted, refers to the chapter – Management of the seized property. What did you predict in article 39? You're saying the director can decide to stay with the owner for the temporary severance of the property, with the obligation to take care of the "good host" property. The owner shall bear the costs of keeping and maintaining the property. It is proposed to delete this attitude, because it is entirely illogical that persons who, undeniably, have committed a crime and a criminal offence, or by committing a crime, have acquired a certain property, that property is entrusted with the preservation, and that it is kept with the care of a good host. The government has not accepted this amendment, with a reason not to accept it because it is the primary task of the Directorate to manage the temporary assets seized. That provision of the bill gives the Director the possibility to leave the property seized temporarily to the owner, if this is more consistent from the point of view of the management of the property. Of course, the Directorate controls the way the owner manages the property, and the owner cannot alienate it, since there is a solution to the temporary confiscation of the property. I was nice yesterday, so I said that the government is providing us with answers, or the government's opinions on amendments as if MPs were jerks, and today I have to say that this is the government's explanation, to the most beautiful eloquent of words -- unbulful. The government just copied, or one of your employees, you just described this slightly wider position 3. A bill of law, which we're asking to delete. You didn't convince us, nor did you write any argument that made you think the amendment wasn't good. You have today, Madam Minister, said here that you have no problem accepting any amendment if the MPs convince you that the amendment is good and that it uses improving the text of the law. If all the amendments that have been discussed so far, regardless of what parliamentary groups they come from, were really constructive, and if the obvious goodwill and intention of the MPs to help you and the state of Serbia in applying the rules, I think it would be good to think about it. I recommend that you accept this amendment, because it is unacceptable that if you take away someone's property that he acquired by committing a crime, which is undeniable in the course of the trial, then to the Director, imagine what powers you're giving to that director, you open up the possibility of him doing the crime. I don't want to doubt the one you're going to put in charge. Whoever it is, believe me, if I were that director, I would ask that this attitude be erased, because, at best, it's an incredible burden for that director to decide that this temporary seized property remains with that owner. Then what's to be taken away from? What's taking away if he's gonna use it to who knows when? He will use it with the attention of a good host. It doesn't make sense. I think it would be good for this amendment, as proposed, to adopt, not to question that, possibly, director and to reduce as much corruption as possible. We talked about it all yesterday and today and these days. If we want to, and we all swear that we want to do as much as possible, let's not say it is completely abolished, but at least to contain maximum corruption, if that's what we want, and I believe we will, then we have to leave no possibility in the laws that we make for someone who knows for any reason what it is that came into such a situation; or a self-inflicted, prone to crime, and you set him up as director, not knowing, and then find out on such cases. There was a talk today about why the procedure was conducted. Of course, I don't want to prejudge court proceedings, but regarding Schiller Street, widows of the owners of Schiller, famous, sued the state of Serbia, and there's a high probability that they will get this litigation and that the state of Serbia will pay a large amount in the name of what these objects are, as things are now, at least as much as we inform ourselves from the means of information, due to missing some services, closing some services in front of certain facts, not making appropriate solutions to certain services. It all refers to the Belgrade City Assembly and the Belgrade city administration, at the time. Who's to blame today if Serbia has to pay for it? Who today is to blame, or who will bear responsibility? The citizens of Serbia will pay, out of their pocket. That's why we can't play like this. I do not predict that such situations will occur, but once you have passed this law, which we do not think is, at all, good and that, in essence, it should not have been passed, we do not see why you will not accept amendments that are indeed well-intentioned, in order to improve the text, and that will allow the law to be applied in that part without any problems. You have heard today from a large number of MPs, everyone predicts the same fate of this law, regardless of what parliamentary groups they are from; everyone says this law will soon have to come to an end. That's what we've been telling you since we started talking about this law, but you're just sitting there and, like, listening to what we're talking about, but I'm not quite sure that it's coming to your senses, nor is it the fact that we're now talking about the amendment signed by Veroljub Arsic, the MP, and in the header, it says that it's an amendment submitted by the SRS Parliamentary Group. It's very interesting that none of the MPs, especially you from the yellow company that you've cooked up, you didn't need to answer, to ask yourself if this was a mistake. How can it say that the SRS MP, or the SRS parliamentary group, has been signed by someone who, Krasic said, stole a secretary and a computer. We asked him to return the computer, and he came back on Saturday, or Sunday, mostly, for the weekend, and, Krasic, you don't know, he took that old computer away, and over the weekend. Of course, we're going to address the secretary, not from this place, to see who's doing this to the Assembly, who can talk out of an MP's group, to rip the phones out of the wall. We're waiting for a call, the phone machine's on the table, and only when we see that there's no call we're expecting, we realize that the phone wires were broken, that the computers were taken from the office, that the complete equipment that was purchased for the SRS Group of Representatives was taken away. All of this, dear colleagues, is happening in front of your eyes. You're pretending nothing's happening. These are very serious disorders, this event has caused, and will only cause serious disturbances in the functioning of many organs in the state of Serbia. You smile, you pick judges, just smile, all your judges who don't comply with the law will come under the law, and every time you do, be sure, we'll give you most of them, and we'll provide a quorum once we've removed their immunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4279	On Article 41, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 41(1), I have submitted an amendment to delete the words: "that is to say, the funds obtained by the sale of movable property". Explanation of the amendment. The part of the text in Article 41(1) should be deleted for the reason that, in this way, it is prejudged that the movement matter was temporarily taken away by a criminal offence and that it should be sold and for the purpose of keeping and maintaining immovable property. In connection with this, the temporarily withdrawn mobile thing, which is irreplaceable for the owner, if it is proven not to have been obtained by a criminal act, should be returned, because there is insufficient satisfaction of compensation in money with the corresponding interest. So it is unacceptable, Madam Minister, that the movable assets, before the court proceedings are completed, can be suspended temporarily. In real law, there is also an effective value for its owner. It can't be taken away from a moving thing, and when the process is over, that thing's sold, and the owner's going to be compensated by including the corresponding interest, and the thing won't come back to him. I don't know if I've made myself clear in the presentation of the previous amendment, but the consequences of this kind of behavior and this kind of procedure, I see precisely in the problem why the Ministry's Directorate is forming in the first place. I'm going to point out once again that all of this should have been covered by a regular court case. What's the Directorate for? You saw today, the departments are being introduced in Mionica, in Luciani, in Guca, in some places, and the Directorate is forming. Imagine now a new body within the Justice Department, and we are abolishing regular courts! It is, indeed, unacceptable and I do not know how it will be reflected in court practice, and from the jurisdiction of the Directorate, where it is said that the Directorate participates in the education of staff – the holders of judicial functions. So, really, I can't figure out how it's going to educate the holders of judicial functions, and for the director of the Directorate, it's supposed to, for example, graduate from economic college. I don't understand how the Justice Department's gonna be trained. So the right property is absolutely right. It's possible to take things away temporarily, but it's impossible to sell a moving thing, anyone's thing, until the proceedings are properly terminated. I would really ask you to accept this amendment, because I think it's comprehensive, I think it'll fix the law. I'd be glad to hear what I said in the explanation of the amendment and accept. You said you'd accept a lot. I'm telling you one more time, it's unacceptable to sell someone's moving thing. It may not be worth it to someone, but, perhaps, for a party it has an effectal value. I'm aware that there are things that we sell because they're corrupt, that they're valuable, that someone's guarding it, but every thing is important to someone and I'm telling you, it has an effective value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4281	According to the Rules of Procedure, you have an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4282	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must inform you that the District Court in Capco has made a positive decision on the resolution of the board of Crescents who left the SRS. What's very important to tell you is that these six councilmen gave the quorum last Friday at the SO Shabac session so that the committee group could function. Therefore, you can see the amount of string between the newly formed "send" parliamentary groups, i.e. the councilmen, who were in one big deal with the "yellow company".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4283	Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4284	I'm going to make this amendment a little different, for the simple reason I don't think the applicant of the amendment has noticed any other dimension as good as its amendment. He simply interpreted this and made some argument. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that, if by this law you form the Directorate as a specialised organization that will deal with the property arising from the criminal act, so when you say it - "doing it", whether it is temporary or permanent, but the old one, it is kept, etc., then you have in one objective way determined the jurisdiction of that directorship in relation to the subject of its work. You in Article 41(1). You're introducing a bill of law that's completely off-limits. You say – if the property is temporarily taken away, and within that property there are both immovable and mobile items, and there is a need to preserve the immovable property, the Directorate is authorized to sell movable items related to the object and from such means provided for in the security and protection of immovable property. I can't figure it out. Why would the work of the Directorate and the protection of property, first of all, immobilized, be attached to a specific subject? I guess that's about the work, the jurisdiction, the work the Directorate's doing. That's why this amendment is good, and I don't understand how you didn't accept it. If we take another situation, if you've temporarily taken away someone's immobilized property, so you need her protection and security, and you don't have the mobile one, what means are you going to provide for her protection? By regular means of the Directorate. It's very simple, it's not hard to conclude, it just takes a little bit of a headache. You did not place the Directorate as an objective, impartial body, which fulfils the obligations and works under its jurisdiction, but you selectively examined and bound the jurisdiction to a specific subject, which is totally unnecessary. This Article 41st paragraph 1 is contrary to Article 9(1) point 4 where it is referred to as keeping in one completely general way, objectively. Any kind of immovableity that has come under the influence of this law, by the Directorate, shall, on the basis of Article 9(1) of Article 1(4), be preserved. With what? The funds at the disposal of the Directorate. You see, in the follow-up to this bill of yours and this member of yours, you are another contradiction compared to the previous members. In the event of any damage, the Republic of Serbia responds. Wait, did you say you were a legal person, and if the Directorate is a legal person, it corresponds with its means. Why would the Republic of Serbia answer? You've broken the legal system since 2001, you've disrupted it, you've mutilated it. He can't work like this. If you've been listening to these law-abiding professors, Lilić, Knezevic, Hiber, Vodanelić, etc., we are well and alive, we are well alive. It's possible that karateists would write the laws better. There, Mr. Bozovicu, I cheer for you, just fine, when I saw - Jorga, Bozovic, I said, there is just a missing Velickovic and there is a team there. I'm kidding. You shut the fuck up. Now that all this is clear, there's no need to further explain. Of course, it's not you, Madam Minister, who's to blame for this. I hope you don't take my exposure personally. They have nothing to do with you. They have something to do with your environment. There are all kinds of guys in your environment. Once, when you worked while Mr. Batic was a minister, there was another guy. There are several people from your former DS who are now in the Progressive Party, with Mr Nikolic. It's a reality. Don't worry about it. I'm not just thinking about Feman. There's a socialist there, Jokic, there's all kinds of guys. Boris Tadic made a very thoughtful political dance, he made a spare DS. At first I told you, we're gonna throw that rock out of our shoes, but it's gonna grow up and be a rock that's gonna drown you. Not you as DS, not you as MPs, but Boris Tadic, Nikita Rakic, welcome him much, and these intelligence structures behind this. Currently, in Serbia, only Boris Tadic supports Tomislav Nikolic. Neither Vuk Draskovic nor Mladjan Dinkic, Ceda won't even hear about him without talking about these parties on this side, the SPS – not even for the living. When Dacic reads the minutes from the session of the SRS Executive Board and the address of Alexander Vukic, as he describes Ivica Dacic and how, when he enters the pub, he makes sure that some waiter puts poison on him, it's clear, people, it's clear. You haven't figured out what mistake the Kragujevac District Court made. That's the problem. He did something that would never happen to anyone normal in the judiciary. That's the problem. For what? Because the President of the District Court, for you to know, this Mr Tomic, counts on being the president of the future Court of Appeals, that's what Tomislav Nikolic promised him, to know. It's all clear. Okay, if it's hard, I don't know. That's the background, there's no place right there. Even those who finish law school in Bologna won't be able to think that way. You have one copy, Tomislav Nikolic, he's after Bologna. He confessed yesterday. Wait, what are you laughing at? On the board of directors, he said he graduated a few years ago. If he had presented himself in the presidential election as a graduate lawyer, not as a construction technician, he would probably have gained two votes more. This is how he made it possible for Boris Tadic to win lightly. The end of the story, it's all simple and clear. If you see Tomislav Nikolic, as he says something like that, interprets, tell him whether the curse works ex tunc or ex nunc, since in the meantime he is legally qualified. Mrs Malovic, the amendment is good and in line with that solution you wrote in Article 9(1) point 4. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4285	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4286	When you look at, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several members of this law, the last few members of this law, then you see that the law is so bad that even amendments can't imitate it and lead to a situation that, at least, it's applicable. This is what I said about this and about another law – that the laws are for the policy. Madam Minister, I didn't think you took them out of the drawer, that's what some others said. I said you won't be able to apply them and it will be so – during my ministry I passed one or two laws, five laws, and that will be for you, so you'll show, once you're not a minister, when, soon, this "yellow company" leaves power to this right and when you're ex-minister. If this were like this, here's just a few examples. For example, if we go back to Article 39, Section 3 says – the Director may decide to stay with the owner temporarily confiscated property, with the obligation to pay attention to the property by an old consideration of a good host and to bear the costs of keeping and maintaining the property. It's about property acquired by crime, in a criminal way. Now we can take an example. Tomislav Nikolic, committing a crime shop, has taken away from the real owner of 20 mandates in a criminal way. If this law were to apply, this is about immovable property, in fact, mandates cannot be sold. It sells people who carry mandates; it's a typical example of these 20 people sitting up there. They're sold by the holders of the mandate, the mandates can't be sold, assuming we take them, because it's immobilized property. In addition, Tomislav Nikolic and his secretary stole two laptops from the SRS. Let's say, we apply this law, let's say, the court makes a decision, say, the director of the Directorate entrusted movable and immovable property to whoever stole it, who acquired it in an illegal or criminal way, to take care of it, as you say, with the attention of a good host. The owner bears the costs of keeping and maintaining. So, if these two laptops owned by the Belgrade SRS City Committee are damaged, they will have to be repaired, guarded and maintained, as you say, with the attention of a good host. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that the first thing the state would have to do, whether to return the looted assets of the SRS to its rightful host, and to return those who have criminally come to other people's property to apply some other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4287	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. The SRS has three minutes left for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4288	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I believe that some of the information that I am about to give you will now help you, as Minister of Justice, resolve some cases and that, if possible at all, such a law, which is full of inadequacy, and this amendment by fellow Saviors, will be applicable. If the Democratic Party had the will and desire to deal with organised crime and those who illegally acquired property for years, when they were dealing with all these listed crimes, they would follow up on what was first bold and wanted and, at that point, the only one could announce the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj. You'll see, if you had to apply it strictly, as laws do not apply, because apparently our judicial system has been destroyed... Wait, Mr. Milic, because I don't want to talk about that affair from the MUP and Dusan Mihajlovic, this time, and those promised prizes. I will mention to you, Madam Minister, only one operation, under the conspiracies of the Sword. The whole operation and the way it was discovered that some people are dealing, above all, with economic crime, with the permission of DS authorities, was published in our president's book "The Mafia Poodle Nebojsa Covic". If you were to apply this law now, since the entry into force of this law, you would be at least 10 persons listed by Professor. The shekel in the book, which is mentioned in Operation Sword, had to be processed, that is, taken away from them all property. Now that the time is short, I'm asking one logical question. Here, Ljubisa Bhuha-chume is one of the main protagonists of that book and Operation Sword. Since he is a protected witness, so, after all that's happened, you are now telling us, and by Article 34, to Article 35, and to Article 41 of this law, that his wife Ljiljan Buha and family members, who should be supported, in case you go after Chumeta, which, of course, you won't, because you gave him the status of a protected witness, therefore, this law is a clear deception of the public, will not come under the influence of this law, because, precisely, those who have committed the greatest crimes will not come under attack. Tell me, please, how is it possible to convince citizens that he will be applicable to such a man, or his family, but I guarantee you that he will not come under the influence of this law until the power is changed, because he needs custody for Ljiljana Bhu and family members, to leave a certain capital, i.e. property, movable and immovable property, to care for her with the care of a good host? If they had cared about the state and had been good hosts, they wouldn't have done all the things with the road asphalting project and the opening of the company "Difens Road". It is not only about the aforementioned Cumes, but also from Covic and some others, who unfortunately were party colleagues of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but because they participated in the delivery and murder of Slobodan Milosevic, the SPS president, then it was easier for them to sell their soul, as they sold Milosevic's head, and in such an illegal way to retain property, i.e. to bow down to the DS clan, the entire mafia, which was also the subject of tapped faces in Operation "Matchva 2's". Therefore, things are so obvious. First of all, you've been late for many years. I'm not talking to you, because you're the minister back three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4289	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4290	Here, I'm done, Mrs. Dejanovic. But if you're ready, like Snezana Malovic, to now name and last name, and why not, because you're part of the executive authority, according to the knowledge you have, you say who these people are, be sure you should never scratch that, if you dare say something like that. Therefore, this law, and without the amendments adopted, cannot be applicable, because you would have to start from your ranks. Those same people, this Feman, he's tiny, you know. He is a criminal from the DS ranks, now he has gone to Nikolic and this group, but all of these others, mentioned in that book, people who worked on processing these personalities and the way they robbed the state, will be protected, as our people would say, as white bears.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4291	On Article 43, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, through this amendment you will see why, essentially, the Directorate was formed. I have submitted an amendment to Article 43(2), which reads – at the end of the text the point is deleted and the words are added: "at the estimated value by the Directorate". Explanation. The adoption of this amendment would avoid the possibility of abuse in a direct contract if attempts by orally public competition failed, i.e. the estimated value would be respected by the Directorate. I have repeatedly pointed out my opinion of the need for the existence of the Directorate. I won't comment on it anymore, I won't repeat myself. I believe that all this was necessary in a regular procedure, through regular courts, and, indeed, I cannot understand why the Government is not for this supplement – according to the estimated value of the Directorate. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4293	Please allow us to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4294	Article 43(2) reads: "The immovable property is sold at the same or higher price than the estimated value set by the Directorate. If the property is not sold after two public competitions, the sale can be effected by a direct contract." So here I wanted to remove one flaw in the law, because, hypothetically, Madam Minister, there's a possibility that this sale could be falsified. It is said: twice they will not be sold and then sold directly. I only added – that this direct contract cannot be below the estimated value by the Directorate. We can imagine, therefore, the Directorate is selling things at a higher or estimated price to the Directorate. Behind this opens an extraordinary possibility of abuse. If the property is not sold after two public competitions, the sale may be effected by a direct contract. Indeed, I can't figure out why it isn't here, or it just had to be inserted – at the estimated value by the Directorate. It's possible that someone didn't read the ad, and it's possible that at that point someone didn't want to sell at some estimated value, but you can't put that price down in a direct contract and open up space for a series of abuses. In this amendment, it shows practically how much the Directorate is, essentially, autonomous, how much through this law we give ourselves an autogol. I don't see any reason not to accept it, because that's just one word you've already figured out in your previous attitude – that it's the estimated value of the Directorate. I expect you to react, I expect this amendment to be accepted. The amendment is really good, it'll fix this law and I don't see any reason why it won't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4295	Thank you. There's a word in Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4296	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the scandalous fact is that after Montenegro, which stabbed Serbia in the back with the recognition of the fake state of Kosovo, I quote our Minister Jeremic's statement, now the knife is in Serbia's heart and her President Boris Tadic. In today's "News", you could read Mr Tadic's statement that for Serbia, I would say, before him, it is acceptable for EULEX to come to Kosovo, if, of course, before that, the Security Council votes and if this Eulex does not implement Ahtisaari's plan. Please, it's demagogy itself. Ahtisaari's child is, right now, Eulex. It comes to Kosovo to implement Kosovo's independence, to support the implementation of Kosovo's false constitution and set of laws on this. Offering Europe and America the model to act on, in order for Serbia to swallow a poisonous cake for the final decision of the Security Council, President Tadic accuses Russia and says -- such as Russia will vote on it at the Security Council. Please, if it is acceptable for Serbia for Eulex to come without notice here and go on our territory, without calling, why would it be unacceptable for Russia, and the president says it is acceptable for Eulex to come here. The most harshly trampled Resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, President Tadic calmly betrays Serbia and no propaganda machine can hide it. Since I have called on members of 225 and 226, I have to ask the question, which is: Serbian President, you sell Kosovo, you sell Vojvodina, what's next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4297	The word is Mr. Jojic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4298	Ladies and gentlemen, this law creates legal uncertainty in Serbia. Why? In the acquisition of property, especially when it comes to real estate, whoever acquired the property, and the immovable property, has entered the land books, and your land books, from Roman law to today, are the fiction of absolute accuracy. He who entered the register obliges the buyer to make an insight into the land books and, if he makes sure that there are no burdens in the land books, no temporary measures, the holder of the new, as a superintendent of rights, as a legal follower, according to Roman law and by definition is a bona fides, which means that he is a lifesaver of immobility. What happens if someone acquired property, built a house in Vranjska Banja with five floors and booked that house and sold it to a foreign citizen or a foreign person? There's also a question. And the one from the EU, who comes to you, gets insight into land books and makes sure there are no burdens in the land books, no interference with the transfer of property rights, acquisition in a derivative way. You know that immobility can be acquired in an original and derivatives way. In the original way, it is through some legal business, and this job can also be burdensome, such as: purchase contracts, life support contracts, contracts can also be about the exchange of immovable property. The man is now coming to Serbia, and Serbia wants to join the EU, and is experiencing that his legal predecessor committed a crime and enrolled in land books without any interference, and that he has come to realize that there is no burden on him, that he can buy a certain immovableity. If a criminal trial is initiated, what happens? The foreign citizen will seek protection from the International Court in Strasbourg. They'll say, please, what is this country of Serbia? Well, this isn't even in, if I didn't say in any other country, I wouldn't want to, because we have diplomatic relations with other countries. They'll ask for legal protection. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw attention to what's going on in practice. When it comes to Article 39, you have examples like this and there will be cases like this. To the current owner, the director of the Directorate has now decided to make his own decision on the value of the assets, which is estimated at billions of dinars. He makes his own decision now and trusts the property, even to the one who doesn't own it. I think the wrong definition is in law. You can't treat someone like they own a property when they've acquired that property for a felony, in any case. He's the holder, not the owner. That's why your definition is very wrong, and you'll hear a little bit of the professional public, our good lawyers, professors, judges, prosecutors and lawyers, who will tell you that this is a violation of the legal order and that this can't live in practice. Here's an example. A decision is made to take away someone's property. He sells previous immovable property, forms a cattle farm, 200 cows. What's going on? They leave it to him for safekeeping. The director of the Directorate decides to leave cows to the owner, or the holder, as a good host. He says, yes, excellent, thank you. Here's another prize. Which one? Well, I'll milk cows, sell milk, money in my pocket, and you wait for it to be a valid verdict, and then we can see, I'll give you cows and gifts. What, though, will happen when a criminal has acquired property? He's got a million chickens. Take the Agroziv, which in Panchev, or in our Serbia, was a large company. What happened? You saw how the company failed and how the state was damaged. Now you can say, "We're leaving "Agro-Live" and "Agro-Living" to the owner, or to someone else by name, a million chickens. These chickens become chickens, he wears eggs, he sells eggs, he takes money, the chickens are left on the farm when he is old. This one says, "Here, please carry." It's the fate of this law, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I can see in my modesty, to point out. There are good lawyers, good lawyers, good experts, who may have a chance to represent some of those who acquire property for some crime. There are so many options, so many holes and holes in this law that there is no way, with a good lawyer, that any court decision or decision of the director will be made. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal order of this law has been violated. I remind you, we have from this area fundamental laws, basic laws. I'll remind you again, it's the Criminal Code, which regulates the confiscation of property benefit in art. In 91st and 92s, I would like to refer to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for when the suspect, or the defendant, or the defendant, will be taken away from things and what kind of procedure is taken away from them. What will happen to whoever has the vineyards? Let's say one of them wants to buy half the top winehouse. The director of the Directorate decided to leave one of the powers from Vrsac to guard the vineyards, to take care of them as a good host. As a court case is being conducted, for 10 years he has been harvesting fruit, and in this way he has become once again unfoundedly rich. That is why this law is doomed and I don't think it will even happen, as is the case with the current law, which has been passed, which is due to take effect on 1 January 2009, the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of the many laws passed by the previous composition of this parliament, on the proposal of the previous government, which was adopted by the assembly and by the majority at that time, of 280 of these laws, there is nothing, it cannot be in application of five laws. Inflation itself does not solve problems in Serbia. The problems in Serbia solve, above all, the respect of the Constitution and the law and, secondly, for courts to enforce and implement the law, to protect the fundamental rights of our citizens and to protect property. What I've noticed, the big problem with this law, is that it's too late. What about the sugars? If this law had been passed before the sale of sugars, cements, ironworks, agricultural holdings, until a number of state-owned enterprises were sold, then it would have been easy to do so. Therefore, this law is not good and let the citizens of Serbia be only informed that they will not care who they buy fixed and mobile items from in the future, because they will not know whether the one who owns and sells is the rightful holder, whether he is the owner, or if he has acquired the property by criminal means, especially when it comes to immovable property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4299	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic, another four and a half minutes, make it five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4300	I think this amendment opens a much bigger dilemma than what we've had to hear in the last 20 minutes. What exactly is this about? It is that Article 43(2) determines the method of selling the movable assets that has been seized. I'm going to go back to something that was just the subject of the debate, which is an estimated value, in general, of movable and immovable property. I ask the question, independent of these leaps and jokes about these amendments, is it the determination of the value of the property, or, to be more precise, moving and immobilizing things that represent the result of the crime committed and the acquisition of some property use of a administrative matter or a criminal-law matter? I have to tell you that this is more a matter of criminal law and criminal proceedings, because in criminal proceedings, for the purpose of considering criminal liability, there is a value of mobile and immovable property, some time as a means of qualification of crime, and some time as an element of the substance of a crime. Who's doing the evaluation? Usually, in such cases, the court finds it, and as an auxiliary body, it uses an expert or a specialised organization. Sometimes it's the tax police, some inspection that determines it, and a court that discusses the criminal issue, accepts or does not accept it, determines the art or super-skilling, and we are here for these obviously judicial affairs predicted, you, the legislator, a directive that, in the end, can share the fate of the executive authority in Serbia and be supplied with volunteering, careerism, political similarity, etc. I can show you the senselessness of this on one very good case. Those belonging to a group of citizens of Tomislav Nikolic took two SRS City Board laptops. They don't return them, and now you send someone to this famous Bajcetin, his, I don't know what he's got, or these companies, or some companies, and I don't know what he's got, there's gonna be a chance of making a decision, and someone's realizing that Tomislav Nikolic has gained a huge property benefit by committing a crime, and then, by this law, our two laptops get hurt, because, perhaps, with him in the state. How are we supposed to look for the extraction of that property? Of course, it is still science fiction while there is love between Tadic and Nikolic. Although, he's qualified as a lawyer, he can break the legal system. The judges of the district court must work on his orders. Anything's possible. You're here talking about a direct contract as a third form of sale, i.e. after two failed public competitions, there goes a direct contract. Given the affective value of certain mobile items, what happens if Djordje Nicovic buys it, and returns it to the perpetrator of the crime? If he could give him a business space, why couldn't he buy his property, which was found to have been obtained by committing a crime? What instruments have you taken? Of course, I don't increase the tycoon circle, because every day it's going to reveal that list more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4301	Thank you. According to Business, MP Vladimir Milentijevic, Milica Radovic, Šormaz, Lapčević and Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. An hour ago, in Zvecan, Russian Federation Ambassador Alexander Konuzin wrapped up a meeting with legally and legitimately elected Serbs at KIM. It is something that encourages us, at least for those of us living in Kosovo and Metohija, because at that meeting he called on the presidents of the KIM municipalities, the presidents of municipalities, vice presidents, the delegation of the Assembly of the Communities of Kosovo and Metohija and the chairman of the KIM Co-ordination Centre, Mr Vladimir Stevic. This is what I, on behalf of the Serbs from KIM, give him thanks, which encourages us in our fight for the preservation of KIM, but on the other hand, I am very concerned about the relationship of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to KIM, especially with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which for these four months has failed to put on the agenda a debate on the KIM Resolution, to discuss it, for a simple reason, which is being obstructed and won at some time. At what time, it is easy to conclude, but on the other hand, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is also responsible, which has not yet unblocked the work of the KIM Committee after four months, so that ultimately the KIM Resolution has not been adopted for these reasons. I have the impression that it was not adopted because, ultimately, it was always proposed as empty, without basic content, and this is the attitude towards Mission Eulex, which is pushed on a large door, to implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan, which provides for an independent state of Kosovo. Therefore, we believe that another relationship should be applied to Kosovo and Metohija, put on the agenda of the Resolution, and some general consensus...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4303	Three minutes and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4304	... Make a decision and clearly reject Ahtisaari's plan, i.e. Mission Eulex. Madam President, please, I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4305	Come on, get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4306	What is currently alarming is President Boris Tadic's statement that a deal is possible between Brussels and Belgrade on Mission Eulex, which is a major blow for those of us living in KIM, as this creates confusion, fear and panic among Serbs in KIM. It would be good for the President of the Republic to go public and, in particular, to the citizens living in KIM, to announce everything related to Mission Eulex, i.e. What is Boris Tadic's intention when it comes to KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4307	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Radovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. Madam President, you know I've never abused the Rules of Procedure before, so I won't do it on this occasion. The question I want to ask today is of an extraordinary, perhaps most important state interest and requires an urgent answer. Yesterday, from an interview with Boris Tadic, we were informed that the authorities in Serbia are considering the recent recognition of Mission Eulex and its deployment in the entire territory of the Serbian southern province. Now it's just a disputed modeality how it's going to be done. From that interview, it can be concluded that you will go to the Security Council. But if it goes to the Security Council, then, at that moment, we cannot demand Russia's support, which is quite obvious, because Russia has said several times so far that it will not protect Serbia's interests unless Serbia itself protects its interests. Because of the public, let me repeat, and that some things become clear if the authorities in Serbia accept Mission Eulex, then Marty Ahtisaari's rejected plan, which has not only been rejected in Serbia, has also been rejected in the Security Council. Thus, today's leadership will recognise Kosovo's independence as well. That's what comes from a decision like this. If that happens, I have reason to believe that it will be so, then our government has no right to be angry with Montenegro's leadership because of what they say is a knife in Serbia's back, because the knife that will stab Mr. Tadic in the back of his own country will hurt much more. In the end, my key question is – what will this decision have to do with further recognitions of so-called. independent states of Kosovo and Metohija by other countries that have not yet recognised it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4309	Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4310	Madam President, too, Art. 225th and 226, but I will address myself directly, above all, as a member of the government. In fact, the government shows that it is extremely incompetent, because at the time of its government the price of gas is rising dramatically, the price of fixed telephony is doubled, although we have a fixed telephone operator on the market, and the government is not responding to these things, or organising them to happen, bringing a budget with the deficit increase, which we are likely to talk about next week. As far as I know, it's up to the government to run the state's policy. I ask Minister, I would like to go out for a pay phone, it would be right to listen to it on these issues, not just about this law and amendments, but about the government's job to run the state policy, not about the job of the President of the Republic – why does the government allow Boris Tadic to run the state policy? Why does the government allow, when we heard from the Prime Minister, who gave himself an A, that he himself runs the government and doesn't interfere with Tadic's business, that Mr Tadic is saying something that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Why not rebel against it, given that the government is obliged to implement the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since December of last year and the last ever adopted resolution on our Serbian province, KiM, which clearly states that EULEX is unacceptable to Serbia? Mr Putin said about a year ago that no one should expect in Serbia that the Russians would be greater Serbs than Serbs. If you say that Eulex is acceptable to you if approved by the Security Council, it's a simple demagogy. If you say it's acceptable for you, why wouldn't it be acceptable for Russia and why would Russia defend us in the SB? Eulex is called upon on the basis of the rejected Ahtisaari plan and Annex 10 in that plan. His only job is to make institutions, which is why the Cypriot politicians are unable to do, first of all, the courts, the police. Of course, criminals cannot form courts and police, the EU forms them and it helps them build a state. With this act, Boris Tadic should apologize to Milo Djukanovic, and you as a government should protect the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4311	It's been three minutes, you speak four seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4312	I ask you -- will you protect the state of Serbia from the pestilence of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, who is preparing to put a much bigger, much sharper, much more tropical knife into the heart of Serbia than Milo Djukanovic did?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4313	National MP Lapčević Milan and then Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4314	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the Assembly, the chairman of the committee, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all matters relevant for the work of the National Assembly and for the exercise of the function of the MP. I simply want to ask the present minister, or minister of justice, especially the foreign minister – who is in charge of foreign policy in this country? Is foreign policy run by the Government and the Foreign Minister responsible, or is the President of the Republic headed by foreign policy? What is our foreign policy like at this point? Just nine months ago, in this same home, a previous assembly session adopted a resolution saying that EULEX is unacceptable in Kosovo and that it directly endangers our territorial integrity, and yesterday the president of the state said that EULEX can come to Kosovo and that Brussels and Belgrade should agree on that. How is that possible? On the one hand, it is said that the Martti Ahtisaari plan is unacceptable for the state of Serbia and that it cannot be implemented in Kosovo, and the only international document mentioning Eulex is the Martti Ahtisaari plan, which has not received the support of the SB and is not acceptable for our country. What does that mean? We don't recognize Eulex, but he can come to Kosovo. We won't accept Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and Eulex can come to Kosovo. It's a completely unconsistent policy and I don't understand how this country can defend its integrity and how this government runs its foreign policy. On the one hand, we are complaining about Montenegrins for recognising Kosovo's independence, on the other hand, accepting Mission Eulex, who has the sole task, and according to her officials, to implement the Kosovo Constitution. Well, what does that mean? At the small door, we accept Marty Ahtisaari's plan, and I fear, indirectly, Kosovo's independence. I fear that this way, the Serbian government is falling deep into the gap and that, after such a statement and such an act, our position in foreign policy will be much harder, we will be much harder to convince those countries that have not yet recognised Kosovo that they are not doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4315	Mr. Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226, which say that the MP should be informed in order to perform his duties, and since we have been elected by the people, I believe that our voters should also have the feedback that is important to them. In fact, about three or four days ago, on state television, on RTS, word was released that five SRS representatives in Tristenik had moved to a newly established party, namely the Forward Serbia Committee Club. When I heard that news, I called the Board Club and the same night at the session came six out of nine councilmen. So, in this place I want to deny information, it's not true that five councilmen have passed, but three. Then, at the meeting of the Assembly of the Municipality, which was held in Triestenik on 14 October, we applied for that point to be placed on the agenda – the replacement of the board, however, the ruling majority in Triestenik did not want to do so. There was no vote on our proposal at all, and we sent a motion to the court...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4317	Mr. Michaelovich, what you're saying has absolutely nothing to do with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4318	Please, it's important that I announce the court's decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4319	You said, "It's clear to us."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4320	All right, but that's art. 226, so citizens must also be informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4321	People are informed, but you really can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4322	I just want a little while, I'll finish, Mrs. Dejanovic. Today, the district court's verdict in Krusevec, giving the SRS back all three lost mandates in Triestenik. So, from now on, we'll be working in full composition, with all nine committee members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4323	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on an article. Article 1(1)(b)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as president of the National Assembly, has called extraordinary local elections in four municipalities in Serbia – Knjižec, Prepolje, Vrnjačka Banja and Ruma. It is already clear that Tomislav Nikolic and DS, at least as far as the elections in the municipality of Ruma, intend to drastically violate the Law on Local Elections. Here's the thing. On 6 October 2008, the representative, namely the candidate of a group of citizens, "Forward Serbia", Tomislav Nikolic, Miss Biljana Damjanovic, allegedly signed a statement accepting his candidacy as SO Ruma. On October 5th, about 13 hours, she flew to Greece, so she was physically absent from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Someone else, instead, put her signature on. We objected to the municipal electoral commission that there was a falsification of the candidate's signature for the committee, because the Law on Local Elections requires a handwritten signature on a statement that candidacy was accepted. In this case, it's missing. However, the majority in the election commission, which is made up of DS, voted against our complaint and our objection was rejected. He was rejected with a fax call sent from Greece by Miss Biljana Damjanovic, here, even, you have Greek letters, Greek alphabet, that she remains in agreement to accept a committee candidate on the citizens' "Forward Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic". The fax was sent from Greece, 13 October 2008 at 13.28 pm. Then she signed another statement, which she also sent through college and her signature on a statement she sent out from Greece, had no connection with the signature that was put on the statement to accept a committee candidate. So here, apparently, is the crime scene of counterfeiting. We have filed a complaint with the District Court in Sremska Mitrovica, and we hope that the election commission's solution will be annulled. Either way, we'll file a criminal charges for falsifying the signature. Otherwise, this isn't the only case. Another candidate of the Citizens' Group -- Tomislav Nikolic, at a time when he allegedly signed a statement that he accepted a committee candidate, was in the Czech Republic, as he drives for a transport company from Serbia. The man, at a time when he allegedly signed a statement that he accepted the candidacy, was in the Czech Republic. Those who created Tomislav Nikolic, from DS, voted in Thessaloniki at the same time, from Bodrum...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4325	Three minutes, MP. Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4326	... They've gone one step further now. They make statements from Greece. But the people will assess who is who and that behind this storm is no one else to the DS, or their majority in the election commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4327	Three minutes and thirty seconds. People's MP, you've been given a word based on an article. Item one 100, because you wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. In three minutes, how long has the Rules of Procedure been set to point out which member has been injured, I told you – three minutes, please tell you which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured and you continued to speak. So you got the word without a foundation. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4328	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, Madam Minister, in Art. 49, the legislator predicted that the largest share of the funds received by the sale of the assets permanently seized and paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, amounting to 80%, is used to finance the work of the court, the prosecution, the Directorate and the Unity. The LDP considers that such a solution is not good and that any possible doubt should be avoided in the law about, possibly, the interest in taking away a person’s property permanently for reasons that are not based on the need to remove the consequences of serious crimes. If the law stipulates that these funds are directly allocated to bodies that have exclusive powers to initiate and lead the confiscation procedure, then it can create a harmful impression that these bodies will be, to some extent, biased in respect of the legal fate of the person who owns the property and is to be taken away from it. We believe that the proposed solution endangers the credibility of these institutions and that they will be seen as bodies that are trying to obtain funds for their budget under this law. Courts, prosecutors, police organisational units and other law-making bodies must be financed from the budget and the conditions for their work cannot depend on the number of decisions deprived of property arising from a criminal offence, neither on the size or value of such assets. Instead of the contested solution, the LDP proposes to extend the scope of the provisions of the proposed 2nd position and to pay the total amount of funds received by the sale of the confiscated assets into Serbia's budget and the benefits of financing social, health, education and other institutions and programmes, which will be decided by the government. The government has thus far predicted that only one-fifth of the funds secured by the sale of the confiscated assets should focus on funding certain institutions. The LDP believes that it is much more useful to focus these funds on concrete projects, whose realisation will achieve a much greater and more significant public purpose. This purpose should also be one of the objectives of the assets seized in the envisaged procedure. There are examples in the comparative right that the court or director may determine the purpose of those funds. It is so in Italy, where funds are directed to institutions or projects whose users are members of vulnerable groups, such as'safe houses', vehicles for disabled people, etc. The position of the Council of Europe is that only so will the confiscation of property have greater importance for the public, i.e. better see the meaning and importance of fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4329	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4330	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to simplify things about this Article 49. Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence. In fact, we have a conflict of interest here. The conflict of interest consists in the fact that, on the one hand, we have the prosecution, the judiciary, we have the Directorate and the specialised unit, which are competent to begin, implement and end the entire process of confiscation of property in case it has come from a criminal offence when the whole process is completed, the property that has been realised in that way, in fact, the benefit that has been realised by the sale of that property, is being paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but whose users are 80%, just the ones who have implemented the whole process of confiscation and sale of that property. So, there's one suspicion of the bias of these organs that's conducted the whole process. You know, a bad solution in the law is often worse than the lack of any regulation to solve certain problems. As the freshest example, I would like to quote that refreshed Article 2, amendment-refreshed Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which made such a mess in the Assembly that yesterday afternoon we discussed this solution that was found by the Government and the legislator. Therefore, it would not be good if in a very short time we were to return to the situation that if we adopt this law, we would have to change, because it is not a good solution for those who pursue, carry out the procedure and implement the confiscation of property, in the end, and make use of it. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is also funded by both the prosecution and the judiciary, and the Directorate, and will most likely finance the Unit, so there is no need to introduce in this way who is the majority beneficiary of these funds. It would be much more comprehensive for users to be, precisely, those services dealing with social issues, health care and the like, and otherwise, that practice is also in the European Union's legislation. Therefore, indeed, we urge this amendment to be adopted as proposed by the LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4331	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4332	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I'm in a dilemma now. I volunteered to discuss the amendment to article 43 and the president of the Assembly registered me. We haven't used 15 minutes to discuss this amendment, even though we haven't given the amendment. You have entered and moved immediately to our amendments to Article 49. Now you choose whether, according to the Rules of Procedure, I say what I meant to say about Mr. Spasojevic's amendment, because our amendment has been said by the predecessors and I have nothing to add. By my judgment, you have violated Article 141, you have not given us the time that belongs to the Rules of Procedure to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4334	So, just a few notes on that article 43rd and on Mr. Spasojevic's amendment. He drew my attention to his amendment, I admit that we missed that position on the 2nd of the 43rd article – movable property is sold at the same or higher price than the estimated value set by the Agency. That means there's a possible situation like this. The directorate determines the price of the property that has been seized, determines the value that goes to the auction. On the other hand, in the indictment on which the person who committed the crime must be tried, there must be some value of the property. It is assumed and the practice is that it is not determined by the court, but by someone who is competent to assess the property, say, "Deloitte&touche". What's possible now? It's possible that the person could be charged with any damage or acquisition of property, the illegal property benefits of, say, a thousand things, and that the Directorate would estimate that it's worth 100. This is one illogicality in this first sentence of the second position, which Mr. Spasojevic did not touch with his amendment, but the fact is that there is a possible disproportionateity between what is written in the indictment and, ultimately, the price at which this property will be sold. Mr. Spasojevic suggests that this second sentence be deleted, that if it is not sold twice at auction, that property can be sold by direct contract. We think it's a good amendment, because it's a terrible analogy, which comes to mind, between these two sentences, or other attitudes, and what's going on. You know what, by direct contract, without two auctions, the NIS was sold. So the property was seized because it was acquired by criminal acts is sold by a much stricter procedure, as envisaged here than sold to NIS. Not to mention that the price of that NIS is not determined, that it is sold below what is estimated. So here we're allowing, in Section 2, that despite the Directorate's assessment that some property is worth 100, by direct contract, because of two failed auctions, it can be sold for 10. Somehow, it seems to me that this analogy is appropriate and that perhaps it is necessary to accept the amendment and delete this member, because it is not right that something that criminals illegally acquired in the way the NIS is sold. And the propo of Putin's quote by Mr Shormaz, you know what, colleagues from the DSS, Eulex also support countries that have not recognised Kosovo. Secondly, Eulex deals with justice and justice, and it is in the interests of the Serbs. Therefore, if even President Tadic understood it, it would be time for you to understand. As for the observation that Tadic is engaged in an unauthorized and anti-constitutional foreign policy, yes, you are right, because the constitution states that the government is engaged in foreign policy rather than the president. When it comes to Putin, a competition that's a bigger Serb reminds me of small children. Kids are competing who's bigger, etc. Here's the problem, though, when I mention NIS already, which has bigger Russians than the Russians themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4335	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4336	Mrs. Comic, you've violated article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says, "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." You've made it impossible for me to get my word right away, and I've asked for a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We've let some of the people's messengers speak. So, I'm going to pick up where I left off. I am using my business right to inform the MPs of the fact that the Law on Local Elections is being violated, that the candidates for the committees are being forged, in a very harsh way. They're falsified in a way that reminds a lot of the former DS. DS MPs voted on time from Bodrum and Thessaloniki. Now Tomislav Nikolic's candidates say they want to be candidates on his election list by fax from Greece. This is indeed a major democratic achievement, and it is certain that this achievement will greatly improve political life in Serbia. Another candidate for councilman Tomislav Nikolic has said that acceptance of the candidacy was signed by the Czech Republic, so it is also an additional democratic achievement. Tomislav Nikolic and DS seem to grab big steps towards democracy. They've gone beyond, even, physical boundaries and limits of time. They can vote from different parts of the world. And what's most regrettable is that such a way of working is legalized at a session of the electoral commission, in which most of us have DS. In fact, it is the best evidence that what Tomislav Nikolic did and what he is doing today in municipalities in Serbia, where extraordinary elections are held, in fact, he is doing on the orders of his DS masters. The SRS is fully convinced that the people in the elections will see it through and that they will stamp out those who have betrayed him, ideology and the SRS themselves at the most difficult time for Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4337	There's no breach of article 100, since, I think we both understood, in the previous reporting you didn't even ask for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Milos Aligrudić, injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4338	Article 226, in relation to 225. The man cannot help but ask the question – how is it possible to choose the government by procedure provided for by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the prime minister of the government has 70% of the ministers that no one has ever heard of alive? You've seen in the papers some survey in which none of the citizens recognize our ministers. After 100 days of the government, we are faced with the fact that a huge number of citizens, 99% surveyed, have no idea who the people whose pictures are in the papers, who were shown to them to identify them as ministers who run certain resistors. It's the best indicator of what the government's worth in 100 days and what it's done. What she's done in these 100 days, which is praised by Cvetkovic, who says to himself that it's great, are mostly the backlogs of a job that was done in the previous government's council, including the unfortunate ratification of the SAA, which has been done, as we have so far stressed, in circumstances under which it was not good to do, which we've already talked about, so I won't waste my words. When it comes to other things, which are part of the day-to-day life and obligation of the government to follow our everyday life, above all, economic, i.e. That part of the daily routine that needs to protect and the social interests of citizens, not that it is a bribery, it is a real disaster – an increase in the price of PTT services, an increase in the price of gas, without any reasonable explanation that has led to this. Although we know that the government does not make this decision directly, it cannot be done unless it is correspondence with the Government and there is no overly silent approval of those who are authorized to lead such a policy. Not to mention that none of the election promises will be fulfilled until the end, and if one is fulfilled until the end, at least in the extent in which it is promised, as is the case with pensions, be assured that a good part of the other population, which are not pensioners, especially those who have social needs, will suffer for all of this, because there is no mechanism to be protected. In all these circumstances, the incompetent government allows the president of the state to lead foreign policy, which is not under the Constitution's right. Leading foreign policy, the president allows himself the right to tattoo the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which has one single instruction, which is to implement Annex 10 of the unaccepted Ahtisaari plan, in a work that supports Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Imagine how folirant the words of the president of the country sound when he says that Eulex is acceptable provided he does not implement Ahtisaari's plan. That's amazing. So such things, such cheap demagogues, which we are forced to listen to all day, are really very difficult to endure. It is unfortunate that we are suffering and in what direction this country is going, both economically and socially, and particularly with regard to the protection of basic state interests. But there can be something good in any evil. In this way, it will be very clear that what Boris Tadic is doing is nothing less than what Podgorica or Macedonia did, which is why their ambassadors are being targeted. It would be best for Boris Tadic to catch up with himself after all this. Then, at least, the thing would be the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4339	People's MP, you had no basis for getting a word out on the basis of article 100. You called in that article. The 225th and 226th are the information you need to work, and you have shared with us all the information you need about the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. In the context of the agreements as used and abused by the members of 225 and 226, at least ask for some information, that it would not be quite obvious, and in the stenogram of this session, and to all of us who are working this afternoon, that it is a word without a basis and that it is a matter of showing your political views, which you have the right to and for which you do not need information from anyone, because obviously you know what you need to work. The word is a folk letter from Aleksandra Jankovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. He asks for a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1). National MP Milos Aligrudic seeks the right to reply. No one spoke, and then you have no right to a replica. People's MP, I'm obliged to give you an explanation if you call on article 100, and I've given you that explanation. You have no right to a replica. The right to replication is, by the way, the discretionary right of the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4340	Mrs. Komic, apart from being a fan of your smoking manifest, what I am asking you to do and simply by the members of 225 and 226, is information. I am sorry that Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is not here right now, because I actually wanted to get this information from the president of the Assembly, a woman who is a competent expert. If it wasn't for a colleague from the NS and the DSS and a colleague from the SRS, at this point, I'd really feel paranoid. Not just me, but our voters, who wonder if they're paranoid or someone wants to make them crazy. Therefore, I ask you that the presidents of the Assembly, as a competent expert, but also other persons of importance in Serbia, convey our questions and our desire to be interpreted by the words of the first person, who spends less and less time in Serbia, and increasingly in the 'United European States' and America. Since it must be formulated as a question, I will be an obedient student, not as Mr. Aligrudic, and I will say it like this. First question, does President Tadic break the constitution again, so, after considering Kosovo's division, he has a contemplation about Eulex? It is that a man is a psychologist, but a method of free association is not allowed for a man in his position. Second question, follow, Mr. Aligrudic, here's the deal. The second question is, how come we do not accept the plan of the great peacemaker and the Nobel Prize, and we accept the consequences of this plan – Eulex? It's a unique case not to be accepted cause, but the consequences are accepted. The third question is, is this a specific way for the shadow prime minister to give an "A" person the role of prime minister, who is highly objectively assessing the government's success, since she is subjectively not involved in her business? The fourth question, since such lumens, such as Palau, Nauru, Minnesota and the Marshall Islands, voted against the Serbian resolution in the UN, will also give their citizens Tadic a decree to double citizenship and purchase property and businesses in Serbia? The apartments already have all members of the rope and wider family of Djukanovic, Gruevski was a happily seen guest at the "yellow" conventions, why not come also to the Palaurani, Nauurmani and Micronezi? Next year, Tadic-Ahtisari may be the two candidates for the Nobel Peace Prize. The fifth question, if this government continues until then, will be the award of the shaded Prime Minister Cvetkovic by the current prime minister Tadic in 200 days' time? Any new EULEX on an independent Vojvodina or Sandzak? The Finn is always ready, and where he's around, there's Boris jumping.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4341	Thank you. Any questions necessary for the work of the Members of Parliament will be referred to the competent authorities and organisations concerned. An announcement on behalf of the president of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Tomorrow, at 13 p.m., in the building of the National Assembly, you will be informed of the place and the hall in good time, the Industry Committee will be held, attended by Minister Petar Skundric, ready to give all the necessary explanations and answers, and at the request of the MPs. The word has been given by MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and on the basis of Article 100(1), he gets the word, and says he is a injured member of the 27th. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4342	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I am always working to listen to your comments and always hear something creative and new in them, something that can, as it is now, cause a need for replication and a conversation about Article 27, which speaks of the leadership of the National Assembly and the care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which, in any case, refers to every chairman, and not just to the president of the National Assembly, as it stands here. Interestingly, when a MP asks you for a replica of your presentation, you say that in this sense the provision of article 101 cannot be interpreted as a reaction to the presentation of the previous speaker, because you chair the National Assembly. When the right to a word is asked by the Rules of Procedure at the time when the session begins, before the debate begins, then the President of the National Assembly or you, whoever is in that place, claim that the word cannot be obtained because it has not yet finished the presentation of the previous speaker, where you consider yourself as the previous speaker. So that's amazing. You use different solutions in situations when what suits you. That's very interesting. I am fully convinced that you were certainly the previous speaker and that I have the right to reply after your presentation. As far as interpreting art is concerned. In 225 and 226, whether my presentation was a question or a political finding, believe me, there is a deep question in every political finding that is spoken here. It's just a question of the angle of looking at the thing, how do you view it, the question of your will and your interpretation. I don't mind. When I say here that Boris Tadic performs a function that is not given to him by the Constitution, to interpret foreign policy and to try to lead it past the Constitution of this state, I ask, therefore, a question to Mirko Cvetkovic – how does this allow? I hear that in the means of information, in public. When I say that Boris Tadic acknowledges the unauthorized Mission Eulex, under impossible conditions, is not impossible in the sense that he cannot be met by Eulex, but under an impossible condition in terms of unacceptable for Serbia, then it is actually a question of the foreign minister – how can he allow it, without any words of comment in public or the need to come to this assembly speaker and tells these MPs how is it possible to obtain such a kind of confiscation from someone who is not authorized to do so? That was the purpose of my exposure. Of course it contains a certain question. Of course I'll always listen to you, I've already said this once, that if this isn't enough form, or maybe you think it's too high, I'll satisfy the other one, who's talking about the need for a parliamentary group to ask for a day in which they want to hear both the Prime Minister and the Secretary-General and ask them these questions directly. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4343	The explanation of the President's injury to the Rules of Procedure, whether or not he is injured, does not constitute a basis for replication. Otherwise, giving a replica is a discretionary right of the chairmanship. So, even if it is submitted as a request for a speech to anyone else who is not chairman, whoever is chairman has the right to say – you have no right to replication, or you have; that is discretionary right. In this case, the basis for the replica does not exist, because I do not express my political views, I do not refer to the Rules of Procedure. I sincerely hope the time will come for me to give a speech, so that MP Milos Aligrudic has a chance for replication. It's always been a joy to me. So far, we don't have that kind of opportunity. Does anyone else want to talk about article 49? The LDP parliamentary group has 10 minutes left. No, I don't. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted refers to Article 49. Proposal for a law that regulates the distribution of money obtained by the sale of the permanently confiscated assets resulting from the criminal offence. The government predicts that these funds are distributed in this way: 20% for the financing of the work of the court, 20% for the financing of the public prosecutor's work, 20% for the organisation unit of the MUP responsible for the financial investigation, 20% for the management of the seized property and, finally, only 20% for the financing of social, health, educational and other institutions, as you state in the bill. We could call this proposal anything but a fair, proper, domestic distribution of funds. So 60% to the Justice Department. I said it nicely in the principle debate, where the money is, there's the DS. To give 20% to one single unit of the MUP and 20% to all other budgetary institutions in Serbia!? The government of the Republic of Serbia is equating the financial needs of a unit of MUP and one Property Management Directorate with all social, health, educational and all other institutions in Serbia. In most of these institutions, the situation is either bad, or catastrophic. The DS is in power for eight years, and the ninth has begun. What's going on in our health care? Whoever has the money can be treated, and whoever doesn't, he was sentenced to death by democratic authority. Doctors across Serbia do not have enough recipes, basic working conditions. Should I remind you of the major crime committed in Serbia under the rule of adaptation of health institutions through the NIP, directed by G17 Plus? Among other things, it happened in Prokuplje. In these eight years, where is our education, and in what state are many schools, where the walls and ceilings are about to collapse? There are dozens of such cases all over Toplit County. Children's kindergartens aren't in better shape either. What about the construction of new kindergartens, which we need and how we need them, did you want to agree or not? What is the standard of living health and education workers? What's the standard of living for others? This will be answered by the citizens of Serbia in the first elections. Don't you think that increasing wages and improving working conditions would be the first step towards curbing corruption and bribery, which are present in these areas as well? How long are individuals going to tarnish the reputation of these professions? What's the epilogue on the Kragueva affair? As a highlight of government hypocrisy, these days we listen to television that the government will not be able to fulfill a pre-election promise made to pensioners that pensions will reach 70% of the average profit in Serbia, and that is reportedly due to the global financial crisis. The genius who remembered to find this reason to justify a pre-election lie should indeed advance in your coalition association against Serbian citizens. Citizens of Serbia, don't be deceived! If the government and the coalition assembly majority adopted this amendment, money would be found to solve many problems – in the social, health and educational sphere. The amendment is very simple and proposes a reduction in the amount of money, from 20 per cent to 10%, to finance the work of the court, the public prosecutor's office, the MUP's financial investigation unit and the Property Management Directorate, because I think it is more than enough to fund these bodies. The remaining 60% should be used strictly for the purpose of solving social, health, education and all other problems. Judging from how many criminals there are in Serbia, whose property value many of us can't even imagine, or hundreds of millions of euros, adopting the proposed amendment would in the long run address the issue of the problems that I have raised and the question of pensions. Don't fool the pensioners. They know what they have voted for and what they have received. Your reasons for not accepting the amendment are unacceptable, as you state that the allocation of appropriations is proposed in Article 49 of your proposal for a law more appropriate. For what more appropriate, for whom? That money obtained by the sale of the permanently seized assets of criminals is distributed: one single unit of the MUP - 20%, to individual bodies of the Ministry of Justice - 60%, and only 20% to all social, health and educational institutions in the state, according to the government act, in principle – we want that institution, we will not. If this is for the government and the first vice-president of the government, as signatories of the government's response to the proposed amendment, it certainly is not. In response to the government's response, it cannot go beyond calling for comparative legislation, because while Serbia is in a social, educational and health sphere in an extremely poor state, the government cannot prescribe models of the laws of other developed Western European states, but must adapt them to our needs and specificities. Finally, in the reasons for not accepting this amendment, the government calls for similar solutions to be applied in the Customs Law. You will agree, and I hope Mrs. Minister, that you can't make such a bad bill and not accept amendments that solve essential problems in the state to justify yourself by calling for already adopted and bad Customs law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4345	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. It is available to the MP's group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law directly protects the perpetrators of crimes. How? First, you leave a portion of the property to whoever stole the property, you leave him a portion of the property if he needs it to support, yours or a member of his family. To comment on that a little bit, and propo, Madam Minister, your stories from today on that part of property. As far as I'm concerned, you said it was a small part of the property, which represents, in fact, personal property, right? It seems to me that personal property is something else. As far as I know, personal property can include funds, clothing, shoes, etc., and whoever committed such serious crimes, ultimately, that personal property, where it should go, will not be necessary. You know where he goes they don't even need shoes, right? So, this part of the property, which you say you're leaving it to the perpetrator of the crime, can only speed up this claim of mine – that, in fact, it protects the perpetrator of the crime, and you say, at the same time, that law enforcement is that no one can benefit from the property acquired by the crime. So those two just don't go with each other. Furthermore, you predict one extremely cynical measure, that the director may decide to temporarily keep that property with the perpetrator of the crime. In translation it means that you simply allow him to sell that property, to alienate that property. Except you tell him: alienate property, sell, and benefit from it. Whoever committed such a serious crime, do you think he'll ever hesitate to commit another crime to sell this property? On the contrary, he will alienate it immediately. This, in fact, shows that you're protecting the perpetrator of a crime. Then who protects Serbian citizens, who protects pensioners and workers, as the country's most socially endangered? You give them 10% pension increases, and here, we have a situation that you've raised 60% of the heat to raise 100% of the price of the pulse, etc. etc. It's simply a distraction for Serbian citizens and it's clear to everyone. This amendment, that is, from the proposal of Article 49, which speaks of the distribution of assets that have been sold, which has been obtained by a criminal act, shows the way in which you want to distribute that property. It is easy to see that you are also not taking care of the citizens of Serbia, of the country's most socially endangered categories. You predict that 20% of this property goes to the Directorate, goes to the Unit and goes to court. Imagine that the value of this property is a million euros. Should the Unit go 200 thousand euros, like the one that was able to detect the unsub, or reveal the property? Should the next 200,000 euros go to court? Is it supposed to go 200,000 euros to the Directorate? Well, what did they do for 600,000 euros, I say, on condition that the value of this property is a million euros? The remaining 40% only go for socially endangered categories. We asked logically for this to be started, that 60% go for social categories, and the remaining 40% to be distributed to these categories: the Unit, the Directorate and the Court. We think it's a very good solution. So, to repeat once again, this law protects the perpetrators of a crime. By applying this law, you know, you will become the new godfathers of this law, then it will be the law to protect the perpetrators of the crimes and witnesses of the associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4347	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) National MPs Ivan Andric, Slobodan Maras and Zoran Ostojić together submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4348	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, we propose this amendment to be in the second position. The 62nd amendment of the text, so that instead of "According to the submitted opinion of the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Home Secretary, within 15 days of the adoption of the act of the 1st member's position, the position is referred to as "The Director of the Police", so not the minister, "the call for the Head of Unit", means the contest, not the appointment, "within 15 days from the adoption of the act under Article 1, so that the selection of the manager is made no later than 45 days from the date of the call". This is an amendment relating to Article 7, to which we have also submitted the amendment. Basically, if the government changes its mind, then it must accept the amendment to Article 7 and this. If the government doesn't change its mind, which will be bad, then it doesn't have to accept this amendment either. The fundamental difference between our proposal and the government is the department of this special police unit that needs to reveal the property of the perpetrators of the crimes. So we think that the manager of that unit should not be appointed by the minister, because it is a political figure, but it is appointed by the director of the police, because it is the highest professional function in the police. We think that the director of that unit should be appointed on the basis of a public competition, which would allow some people from, I don't know, the financial police or the administration, tax administrations or lawyers to report to the competition and lead the unit. We think that the mandate of the unit's manager should last five years, because it should not depend on the change at the head of the ministry, and we think that this is the right way for citizens and all others, who are to gain confidence in that unit, in the right way, not to be treated like another unit, which is known as a unit from the past, as the State Security Special Operations Unit, under the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and the parties that helped him during the 1990s. So, Madam Minister, last time I said, on behalf of Article 7, you're honored to have an exit, I don't see what's controversial about it, except, perhaps, we're subtracting a little power from someone who's Deputy Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, the first Deputy Prime Minister, etc., and that's just a little bit, that he doesn't have to appoint the head of that unit, but to leave it to the Director of the Police. If an amendment to Article 7 is accepted, then the amendment to Article 62 is necessary, if it does not – nothing, another time. But if not quickly, in a few months, then maybe, in a year or two, on this topic, when you see that unit pulling tails of political decisions, pulling tails of party decisions. And you'll be in the best interest of it not happening anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4349	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 62. The proposal for a law on confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, which reads: "The Unit Manager, within 15 days, determines a person who will take care of the property that exists on the grounds of suspicion that it has been obtained by a criminal act". It is proposed that, after Article 2, this becomes the position of Article 62. Article 62 of this proposal of the law, which I have submitted to the amendment, is located in the part of the transitional and final provisions and refers to the deadlines to be respected by the Minister of the Interior, which is the adoption of an act on the internal organisation and systematisation of the work in the Unit within 30 days, that is, paragraph 1, then, within 15 days after the act on the systemisation of the appointment, or the deployment of the unit manager, which is paragraph 2. The amendment I have submitted proposes adding a third position in Article 62, which would only complete this set of deadlines and which would give a 15-day term to the unit manager to determine the person who will take care of the property that exists on the grounds of suspicion that it has been obtained by a criminal act. The amendment relies on the amendment of SRS MP Mirko Munjic, who is proposed to determine who will take care of the said property. However, the government rejected this amendment, as well as an amendment to Article 7, with an identical explanation. According to that argument, it has already been regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. If there are frequent reasons for your refusal and other amendments that this has already been regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, or Criminal Code, then why this law? Why haven't you applied existing legal solutions, and you've had the opportunity to do so so so far? I fear that this law will only play a single advertising role in Serbia's citizens, that the state will reportedly deal with tycoons, profiteers, criminals, who have become rich in an illegal manner. That sounds nice, but, as SRS MP Zoran Krasic said yesterday, several small profiteers in the sea will be killed by those who are supposed to be hit by the law. Do you remember the 2001 extraprofit law? So pompously announced, advertised. The sums of money the state would collect from the profiteers were mentioned, and in the end, it was reduced to barely a tenth of the charge from what was scheduled. To make the situation even more tragic, the law was then struck by persons who were officially buying foreign exchanges in state banks for treatment abroad. Thus, Serbian citizens who had to be treated worldwide for bone marrow transplants, kidney transplants, heart surgery, etc., which they could not perform in Serbia, became extraprofits. Among them were the parents of underage children, whom the state of Serbia has rightly allowed to be treated abroad by buying a exchange rate. That's why those who have won a huge profit, a huge asset, have stayed aside. Meanwhile, in 2001, they turned into a second, quite the opposite ideological track, and remained untouchable. Let the minister of justice, let the interior minister see what will happen to them when this law is passed, or the petty profiteers will suffer again, while these untouchable ones will be restructured again, or they are already being restructured to the third ideological track, whose main ideology is only money. SRS head Dragan Todorovic listed all the affairs yesterday morning, from the 'bulldozer revolution', to the present day, and only the most important ones. If you apply this law, if the state withdraws property acquired after these listed affairs, Serbia will, believe me, be richer than Kuwait. You're not gonna do that. You would thus destroy the entire party infrastructure, several parties of the current ruling coalition. When the numbers are added together, it's simple for a man to get a chill, as our people say. The amendment I submitted to article 62 mentions a person who will take care of an asset that is suspected of being obtained by a criminal act. That face must, above all, be capable of professionally performing that duty. This property can be in a different form. It can be scattered all over the country, or around the world, not to mention those exotic islands, known for the Kolesar, Janjusevic, the others. Next, someone can own property in the city, expensive apartments, all the way to property in their home village. It can have bars and apartments from Presevo to Horgos. He can have a fleet that's unimaginable to an ordinary citizen. Let's not talk about bank accounts with huge sums of money. So that person will have a difficult task in front of him, to oversee and control the property of such a scale, and knowing that the time limits in our judiciary are difficult because of the limitations of the procedure, it will be necessary and that a large number of persons who will take care of the property suspected of being obtained by criminal acts, because such situations, if this law is implemented, will be many. Analyzing Article 62, as well as other members, it is easy to see that they often intertwine the responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. Thus, for example, the Republic Public Prosecutor gives an opinion on the act on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs, and can be interpreted as giving an opinion on the future head of the Unit appointed by the minister. If it came down to the Ministry of the Interior needing a Republic Public Prosecutor to give consent and verify it, then who should be trusted in this state? What happens if, say, the Republic Public Prosecutor does not give a positive opinion of the Act on the Systematization of the Minister of the Interior, or of the deployment of the Head of the Unit? Will it stop and apply this law? Isn't this a hidden stumbling block, to transfer responsibility from one ministry to another ministry in certain cases, when it comes to protecting individuals from applying this law? Since Mrs. Minister is here, I'd like to ask her what the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade turned into. Since many, may say, already former councilors, or those who will soon become, from the SRS, who stole the mandates of the SRS, are writing some performances, letters from all over Serbia, is it the Shop, Mali Zvornik, as we heard the other day, or Ćupria, Paracino, Jagodina, and all address the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, seeking the protection of some of its rights, did the fourth municipal court turn into an outstretched division of the SRS interest group? Is there a private judge working there who's going to take over the mandates of the SRS? I don't understand that some former councilmen can say here that they were forced to sign contracts and powers. Did they wake up, like "Tron Rose," after six months and figure out what they did? So, not only am I, but the public in Serbia is interested in what is, in fact, the Fourth Municipal Court, is this an outstretched section of the SRS's interest group?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4351	Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4352	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've seen from this presentation of colleagues, as well as opposition, how much symbiosis is between the mafia and the government. I will, however, tell you on one occasion, probably many will remember this example, it was last year in this assembly, when I said Djindjic was in fact the head of the Serbian mafia while he was alive, and that his trend continued Boris Tadic. Then you'll answer, no problem... But I must tell you that no one in that ruling coalition has called me as much as one man called me, I will now say his name, and I will never say it again, because he has his own conspirative, other political name, that's citizen Vukic. Actually, it's radioactive waste number two. He called me, saying that with my statement, I had done him a great political blow and that I had done his political career a great deal of damage. Not knowing, in fact, what I've done, the days have passed, I've been thinking, but his suggestions, or his, let's say, the attacks have been daily. I asked him for a big explanation, but he told me - I'll explain it one day, but, you know, you stopped my political career and that you're one of the great culprits that I haven't been elected mayor of Belgrade. I took that as a well-intentioned criticism of a former party colleague, not knowing that he's in the mob service, that he's in the service of certain pro-Western states, certain intelligence services. I didn't, however, have enough time at my disposal in the party. Very quickly, after all, I realized where, in fact, that political goal of "radioactive waste number two" was, but my going out for this pay phone was to say that this law would contribute to a great deal of reckoning within the family itself. I'm afraid Serbia is not becoming the Wild West. You will ask me, how, and I will answer you – because the third person, who should or who can inherit this kidnapped property, will fight with all means that this property will not be taken away, because here, in certain members, art. 27, 28, 29, 30, 34, to no longer count, explains that a third party has the right to conduct proceedings if the person against whom the criminal charges have been filed translates that kidnapped property. I'm afraid there's no internal accounting in the families themselves, so the children don't draw their weapons to kill their father, the one who took that property in Serbia, in that criminal, criminal, thieving way. What is also very important, the time is leaving, I have to speak quickly, is a crime that was in the Sabacan municipality, where former MP and former Minister Dusan Petrovic, I am saying that, because I have some information, along with Boris Tadic, when they were on a private visit to Italy, along with the president of the municipality, that can also be confirmed by SO Sabac, the SPS boardman...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4353	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4354	I'll finish now. ... that a memorandum was voted to transfer the equipment of an infamous "killer" factory from Romania for the destruction of physical-chemical waste to the Sabbath municipality. In a suspicious way, the S.O.O. voted that memo, where we, the board of the opposition, then advertised it. I have to tell you the truth, that's when the DSS committee group was in position, in power, but it voted against such a memo...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4355	Please, bring the end, you've been talking for a really long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4356	Here, I'm done. ... which proved criminally, how much Dusan Petrovic, along with Tadic, wanted to take part in handling the Sabbath economy, or they are still handling privates who have usurped the Sabbath economy. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4357	You have no more words. Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Jugovic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4358	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I respond by a member of the Rules of Procedure who says that no one can insult the dignity of this assembly, and especially the dignity of the tragically injured Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, and I cannot endure it, I feel when someone comes out for this pay phone and says it's about the mob president of the government. I think it was an opportunity for you to give Mr. Zivanovic a warning about this insult, but it speaks about the value system, not only Mr. Zivanovic, but the entire SRS. Everywhere in the world, people are born with falsely wept eyes, falsely concerned, falsely sad, worried about big problems, vass trom and lazy when they're to sacrifice for their own people, and always active when they need someone to tarnish and bend. Everywhere in the world, there are such people who are always ready for another to push on the altar, unable to do anything for their own people, for generations, for the citizens of this country. In Serbia alone, those people, who crawl through the dust and barely differ from the dust they crawl on, have been given the opportunity to grab the biggest stone from the dust and that mud and throw it into the face of those who have borrowed generations. This morning, Mr. Zivanovic, when I came to this session of the Assembly, I passed through the Morav Valley, through Serbia. When you look at these fogs in the early mornings and you look at this beautiful land of ours, only the peaks of the great mountains spring from that fog. That's the way it is with human history. Small, tiny, small people don't see each other. All you can see are these big, proud characters, who have been in charge of generations. It's just like an exhibition of pictures. To see the big pictures, you have to move away from them to see the characters in those pictures. To see small, tiny people in those little pictures, you need to get closer to those pictures. So is human history, this great exhibition of characters. To see big characters like Dr. Zoran Djindjic, you must be his contemporary and understand him. History and time will show the size of Dr Zoran Djindjic. I am proud and happy that I knew such a great man, who owed generations, and he still owed his generations for life and became one of those great people who owed Serbia, because, in their works, these great people suppressed the Sundays of little people. You, Mr. Zivanovic, belong to people I won't qualify as neither small nor large nor such, nor such. Let the voters and citizens of this country judge you, but the DS does not allow you to speak of Dr Zoran Djindjic in this way. Time will show its size, and time will show where you belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4359	National MP Zivanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4360	Mr. Milivojevic, you traveled through the valley of Moravia and saw the fog, but you didn't see yourself in that fog. You saw the mountains, but you didn't see yourself in that fog. It's the fog that is the factor, where the wind needs to be, along with that fog, that blows you off this political scene, that you're gone. You should know that the SRS is the last plight of Serbia, and its ideologist, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. All citizens see the great struggle of Prof. Vojislav Seselj to save Serbian citizens, not only to save Serbs, but all Serbian citizens. What did your president, late Zoran Djindjic, do? He did it on October 5th, and now this Serbia lives on blood, the one that Zoran Djindjic came to. He came here destroying Serbia and destroying everything that Serbian citizens have created. That's your president. It's Zoran Djindjic. Remember once again that Professor Vojislav Seselj is a hero of the heart, a hero who saves Serbia, who sacrificed himself and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4361	Mr Ostojić, then Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4362	Madam President, you haven't been President of the Assembly in a few months. It's not the first time you've talked about Zoran Djindjic like this, and you've never said a warning before. We warned you July 20th, after several times, that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What do I think of radicals? I don't need to talk, but then, Madam President, I told you that I won't say again when I go out for the pay phone "honored," "respectful," and I'm doing it so far. You're not respected, you're not respected, because you're allowing this to continue. Then we voted, Mr. Milivojevic, whether the lady behind me broke the Rules of Procedure, and you, the whole side, voted that she wasn't. So, sitting near those behind you, who are champions of hypocrisy, it seems to be spreading around this bench. Do not bore us with such speeches if you are unable to vote, in the day to vote, that impunity is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This is how Zoran Djindjic defends himself, not in words at half seven, but in deeds. I knew Zoran Djindjic, and I don't think it's time and place to talk about it right now. I don't think it's time or a place for a poetic field trip. The minister sits here, people wait for the laws to be passed, and Mrs. President continues to violate the Rules of Procedure. If you're behind these words that you've said, let's vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of voting, and see if they're just words or deeds, and not a word should be spent on them. When I say – about you, I don't think of you all as anything bad, you are my fellow MPs, but about individuals who, apparently, cannot control themselves and who allow themselves to turn out like a gentleman, but the gentleman obviously has a tendency to turn out, remembering when it comes to his colleague yesterday. Show, even though you are the only party who admits to taking orders from abroad, there is no other party in Serbia that receives orders from abroad, show little dignity to the deceased if you are a Christian and do not abuse this speaker in this way. The fact that you and the party, the lady who sits behind me, in the '90s, let a lot of blood go out to both Serbs and non-Serbs, and that favored attitude towards you, does not give you the right to do so. And here you are, in voting day, to see if she has broken the Rules of Procedure, and then I will understand and believe that there is a sincere desire behind these words to protect the character and work of Zoran Djindjic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4363	Mr. Ostović, my favored relationship with any messenger is as gracious as you are. Here you go, Mr. Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4364	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the President of Parliament to be her obligation not to allow MPs to defile this House of the Republic of Serbia with their dictionaries. We can't raise some people here, but you can keep them from showing up. The Republika Srpska Assembly is a cultural, state and every other legacy. Badly treating this home, we show irresponsibility to all citizens of Serbia, but also to our ancestors who built this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4365	Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4366	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I am reporting again for breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 103 and 104. Of course, it is the intention of the coalition For European Serbia and the Democratic Party to work effectively and I will no longer debate with Mr. Zivanovic, because I do not think he is the level to discuss the achievements of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, nor is it our intention to use this speaker to discuss with Mr. Zivanovic, because we want to raise this parliament to a higher, more effective level, worthy of respect. Mr. Zivanovic, indeed, I think your dictionary is inappropriate, that your system of values is missed when you talk about the immortal politics of the Serbian Radical Party. I will only remind you and the citizens of Serbia how many citizens, both these countries and the former Yugoslavia, have become truly deadly because of the immortal policy of the Serbian Radical Party, and that is enough to say about you and your system of values. Mr Ostojić, if you really want to improve the work of this Parliament, let's not vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let's change the Rules of Procedure, make one more effective atmosphere for working in this Parliament, to create an atmosphere where there will be no opportunity to come out and speak on a subject like this, where there will be no opportunity for the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be used for political accounts. Let's let you and I give up any discussion and that, if we really want to bring this debate to an end, let's let Mrs. Malovic say what she has to say, and then I'll say there's no hypocrisy in that, that there really is an honest intention to do it. I understand that it is the legitimate right of the opposition to try in every way to obstruct Parliament's work. I say once again, let's try it together, let's make Parliament effective, make Parliament decent, and let's not, however, let people who have made an immeasurable contribution to the democratic changes in which you participated. And you, however, have the right to remain silent. We from the Democratic Party will indeed no longer participate in the debate tonight with the Serbian Radical Party, or what remains of it, about the image and the work of anyone, especially Dr Zoran Djindjic. We want to bring the debate to an end and we won't be answering the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4367	Mr. Ostojić has his word. Replic or the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4368	I'm reporting for the amendment. Mr. Milivoevich, you're using the crowd a lot, come along, come along. We sit and make amendments to the law, we make our contribution, and we voted on July 20th that the president broke the Rules of Procedure when she did not punish these words with a warning. You didn't vote, this whole side didn't vote, and that's the problem. We can't change the Rules of Procedure. The rules of procedure include representatives of all parliamentary groups. When you say and you invite us to do something together, let's cut the price of gas. We will, and you can, so we can do it together, but it won't come to that. Therefore, what most of them desire and the Rules of Procedure will come to pass when most of them wish, and the price of the gas that is acceptable, and the adoption of this law. I agree that what is heard about Zoran Djindjic, not for the first time, will not prevent any rules of procedure. We can make the most modern Rules of Procedure, the most perfect, if there are such copies that can't be controlled, they'll say that, but that's why there's a Rules of Procedure to be punished. For the end, ma'am, it's nice that you're equal to all of us, but for those who break the Rules of Procedure, you should apply the Rules of Procedure. So if I violate the Rules of Procedure, punish me, if anyone else violates the Rules of Procedure, punish him; so you will prove that you are equal to all of us, and finally to Zoran Djindjic, that you think of him differently than you once thought in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4369	Milan Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, also.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to take advantage of the still valid Rules of Procedure, until some MPs of the Democratic Party took it to change, and to inform, in accordance with Article. In 225 and 226, MPs, due to my presentation yesterday, from this speaker, that the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade refused to appeal for the return of 17 seats to the municipality of Novi Belgrade, that the legal team of the Serbian Radical Party has filed against Sladjana Bojovic, Željko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic, the judge of the District Court in Belgrade, criminal charges and that this criminal application will set an example for all those judges who are acting outside the law and past Article 47, who clearly says some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4371	You've informed the public, that's not the point of the agenda. You used your right to inform the public about it. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4372	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have two minutes left and you took half of me, I had no intention of informing the public only about this case. There's more than one subject. But, well, I'll honor you, since we had some gentleman's agreement, so that we wouldn't be late again to the European Union for radicals. Thank you. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Mr. Sreto Peric, the MP of the people, and Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Milivojevic, you have Mr Ostojic gone, so I believe you can now be strengthened by another group of citizens. Change the Rules of Procedure, let the Rules of Procedure say that the Government is passing laws, because you Serbian citizens are certainly not required, except when elections are made. It'll be the greatest flow of democracy, if you succeed in it, then it's a good thing. My colleague, Mrs. Verica Radeta, has submitted an amendment to the article. 66th Law on the confiscation of property arising from criminal acts. Article 66 reads: "The provisions of this law shall not apply to persons who, until the day of entry into force of this law, have acquired the status of an associate witness." The amendment to this article states that this article is deleted. This is the best example of how one good idea you've completely come up with and destroyed. The law would also be voted by citizens of the Republic of Serbia if, by any chance, it were voted in such a way. However, you have shown this member that you are not, in fact, interested in taking away property from the person who acquired the property by doing, most often, the greatest crimes. Instead of defining this law from when and to whom it will apply, you here speak nicely and clearly to whom it will not apply, it will not refer to the witnesses of your associates. Another fact defined by this law is that this law will apply from 1 March 2009. So you leave time for six months that those who have not become protected witnesses have plenty of time to become and be protected in another way, and the legal and judicial practice has already shown in Serbia who our witnesses are today. So, almost the greatest criminals and those who have committed crimes in the longer term. I ask the question, will the next period and those who should be protected by witnesses in The Hague tribunal, in the process against Professor Vojislav Seselj, become protected witnesses, because I have the right to express my suspicion if such a long period of time is left for the start of the application of this law? What else does it point to than one such situation? It is a shame for those MPs who say this is the only parliamentary group, i.e. a political party receiving orders from abroad. Thanks to you, and to the gentleman who is not here right now, I do not personally think of him, but of the policy he supported and which he supports today, the president of the SRS is not in Serbia, but is located in The Hague tribunal, disproved, almost without all human minimum rights. Thanks to him and the like, the president of our party is in The Hague, but we have never and will never receive any warrants. Our only boss and someone we listen to are citizens of Serbia. That's what we've done so far. We'll do it in the future. Madam Minister, this government has much more and much more direct business and compared to this law, although its name is also a good idea. We would have joined this idea if you hadn't thought of it and made it completely inapplicable, not only to this provision, but also to a series of other provisions that exist in it. Of the 25 amendments, as far as this law is concerned, none of them have been adopted, I hope that at least this amendment by Mrs. Verice Radete will be accepted. Instead of dealing with the life problems of non-small Serbian citizens, the government boasts, it is declared very successful, and you know well it is not. About 900. There are thousands of unemployed in Serbia, and these are citizens who deserve to be paid serious attention, to think about the way they could get hired and contribute to supporting their families, to simply feel that they need this society and to be worth it. We should deal with agricultural producers' problems, because you know well that 120 euros per hectare is given to agricultural producers. Mr. Zivanovic, I don't know if this is fully respected, and in the production of wheat it takes a hectare, I'm not an expert on the area, certainly 400 to 500 euros. How can these people be helped if the government won't intervene? You've failed to privatize, you've failed, you've failed, you have no intention, and in fact, you've made her that way. An unwarranted number of public service employees, which is why you get packages from IMF representatives, because there are 100 percent more engaged than necessary, and you don't think about it. There are not many problems under pressure from Serbian citizens and you are trying to destroy what gives, possibly, a chance for Serbia to present itself abroad today. I don't know if the government has decided on a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with EU member states. Have you considered how this will affect agricultural producers in Serbia, whose possessions are very small, which have very small donations, very small incentives to organise this agricultural production? Our agricultural producer is at this point completely unprepared, but a longer time period of state does not think of him, to be involved in such a game. You know well that on our market, right now, the products we've decorated so far have been missing and have been adorned abroad. As a rational man, a man who wants to talk exclusively about what is on the agenda, within the time I have for this amendment, I will take the opportunity, and in accordance with Article 225 and Article 226, Madam Minister, to ask you for an explanation. It can be at the end of your stay here, after all the laws, can be a written answer, because citizens of municipalities in the area where I come from, have an announcement, they are no longer judges, nor are the presidents of municipal courts, that certain courts will be abolished, above all, I mean Love and Krupanj municipality, where in one direction, until the municipal court of Loznica, there are over 120 kilometers. Please provide an answer to all MPs, because this question has been raised by many MPs, to deliver an orientational future network of municipal courts, so that we can talk, together with all the competent people, about how to solve this problem. Because if you take the courts to these small places, there's a danger that they become local communities, and these municipalities are also gravitating borders, at this point, unfortunately, borders with another state. We must have an answer for citizens who look forward to such answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4374	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that article 66 is one of the members that would be necessary for this amendment. In any case, it is the biggest lack of this bill, as it says that the provisions of the law do not apply to persons who have acquired the status of an associate witness until the day of the entry into force of this law. In that case, a certain number of persons are privileged, for completely inexplicable reasons. It's something I talked about even during the debate in principle. I don't think it should be forgotten that the persons who have also committed crimes who are presumed to, in most cases, have, most or part of their property, just acquired crimes. So, on both sides, we have faces that have committed crimes. It's just that one asset is taken away and the other one's not. I believe that this amendment is necessary and necessary to accept, in order to qualitatively correct this text of the law, because the provision of Article 66 aims to destroy the very concept and principle of why this law is passed, and that is that no one has the right to retain property arising from the criminal act. So I appeal to the minister this opportunity to really pay attention to this member, because I don't see the motives why he was in this bill at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-16-0.u4376	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want to give the final word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 121 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that more than 1/3 of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Mr. Jovan Ćosic, the head of justice ministry. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Martinović, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Jadranko Vukovic, Milorad Buha, Momir Markovic, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Veroljub Arsic, Dusan Maric and Srdjan Spasojevic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta first called.
