ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9990	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 77. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I will quote that member, so I ask the President of the National Assembly to refuse my time. "The Chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at the request of at least a third of the total number of board members, or a third of the full composition of the Committee within the meaning of Articles 24 and 42 of this Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly. If it does not do so within the required time limit, the committee's session shall be convened by the deputy chairman of the Committee or by the chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "Miss President, we have to get back to about June 14th or 15th, when you called a constitutional session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. The Kosovo and Metohija and the session were then never held. Meanwhile, Mr Pelevic, who was elected president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, resigned at the constitutional session. Mr. Milan Nikolic, who was elected vice-president of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, also resigned. Now, in half a year, whether on purpose or by accident, the Kosovo and Metohija Committee was unable to discuss everything... I would pray for silence because the subject is serious. (The President: Gentlemen of the Messengers, you are distracting the People's Messenger of Milentievich, and I really ask you to be quieter. ) Since the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija has not been in a position for half a year to discuss everything that pains us living in Kosovo and Metohija and MPs in the National Assembly, I ask you to immediately schedule a constitutional session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, where we could discuss everything that this committee needs to discuss, especially the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9991	Thank you. The committee has been established. So, the president should be re-elected and I ask one-third of the MPs to launch the initiative in order to re-invocate him. So, the Committee has been established and we can't re-constitutional session, and the president's choice is something that we really need. Although the number of MPs has already been set by parliamentary groups and a constitutional session has been completed, the session should be chaired by the oldest MP until the president is elected. It's business, but in case you don't call her on a proposal from one-third of the board members, I'll schedule a session. So, ever since it was established, Mr. Pelevic, regardless of his resignation, he is obliged to call for a session, or if he does not do so, so does the deputy, who is also in resignation, on a proposal one-third I will call, but it must be in writing for procedural reasons. We can schedule it today at 1400 hours. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9992	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just visited the workers of the Belgrade Robing Houses who spent the whole night under tents outside the presidency building. Boris Tadic did not visit them and no one spoke to them. They're old, powerless and down. One of their colleagues in Nis, unfortunately, tragically lost his life. They're asking, Mrs. Malovic, for you to come from the pay phone today because yesterday, during one of my address and carrying out the problem of robbing the bankruptcy that is being kidnapped by Belgrade Robing Houses, you told me that they, however, told me from the bench, were illiterate, so they didn't know who to address, and then they complained, instead of the Supreme Court, to the Constitutional Court Supervisory Board. It is that they have complained to all, and to you on many occasions, and to the Republic Public Prosecutor, and to Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic, the Office for Combating Organized Crime, and at the end, when no one has heard their pleas or appeals, they have complained to the Constitutional Court Supervisory Board with all the accompanying documentation. If it's not enough for you that people have irrefutable and inconclusive evidence that someone, or a certain Karan, who is now the bankruptcy manager of a section of the Robing House company, in agreement with the top of the state government, is robbing a bankruptcy mass, then I don't know what else to tell you. It's nice for us here, it's warm, because this hall is so buried underground, but imagine that your mothers, your sisters and your relatives are now on this basket in tents and spend all night in such conditions. It's not funny, Mrs. Malovic, it's sad. It is sad that you do not see that your, or courts in the state of Serbia, trade courts and courts of general jurisdiction, which will now be set up in a different way, do not do their job and that people have no one to complain to. For you, it's not enough 3,700 lawsuits to do something about it. The fact that they will not give up their demands, do you think it is easy to spend an hour in this winter and in a Belgrade basket under a tent? Boris Tadic is not ashamed that the moving toilet is installed outside the presidency building and that they are tents where workers sleep. If it's not a shame and a shame, then I don't know what it is. What do you mean, you're still in power, and you don't solve burning issues in the country? Workers robbed, people hungry, no legal protection, no security whatsoever. (President: Time. What are we going to do, play the National Assembly? Now that we're talking about public procurement, you'll see how they systematically rob the state register just the leaders of DS and G17 and at the top of the government and, above all, in local self-government. The people will continue to vote for honest and responsible people, such as Serbian radicals, who are the only ones in Serbia today fighting for the rights of poor workers, farmers, pensioners and unemployed. We fully support all demands of the RK "Belgrade". As I've visited them before, we'll visit them all the time, but don't let the strike last long, do something, take the negotiating team and start solving the problem that's been going on in the country for seven years. Thank you. I'm sorry I timed out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9993	Mr. Pelevic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9994	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to article 77, which speaks of committee sessions. Item 2: "The Chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at the request of at least a third of the total number of board members, or a third of the full composition of the Committee, within the meaning of Article 2(2). 24th and 42nd of this Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly. If he does not do so within the required time limit, the committee shall convene the Vice-President of the Committee or the President of the National Assembly." Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the presidents of the parliamentary groups, when this assembly was formed, agreed that the seat of the chairman of the KIM Committee belonged to the SRS, according to this and my moral understandings, had resigned as chairman of the KIM Committee and had left the SRS, as it was agreed. I also did so as a member of the Education Committee, since that function belongs to the SRS. I think I did the right thing. You cannot honor me, Madam President, that I am obliged to call for a session. I filed my resignation in October this year, a month and a half ago, in favour of the SRS, whose mandate and function belong to, and I think that's quite all right. Madam President, you are required to call for a new session and establish it, to elect the chairman and deputy KIM Committee, or a third of the MPs who make up the committee. Dear colleagues of the SRS, I will never say a word to any of you. There are truly wonderful people among you, my friends, and you will never hear a word from me about Serbian radicals. I sincerely want your boss, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, back from The Hague as soon as possible, to his family and your stranger. Your banging me can't... (President: Time. I'm sorry, just to finish the sentence. (President: Bring the end, no problem. Your thumping can't de-concentrate me. Really, no. Therefore, I repeat, I resigned only because it belonged to the SRS, and resigned as chairman of the KIM Committee, and resigned as a member of the Education Committee. Thank you very much. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9995	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 103 for the presentation of the previous citizen. I suppose there's one logical question about you, too. First of all, the gentleman in question says that according to his concept of morality, he resigned as chairman of the KIM Committee. First, the question arises in general of the concept of his morality, as the parliamentary mandate also belongs to the SRS. You can't be immoral when it comes to mandates and morals when it comes to the chair of the KIM Committee. Then there's another question and it's much more serious -- what about the chairman of the Administrative Board? So there's no morals. I'm grateful to you that you have at least a little bit of morality, and the chairman of the Administrative Committee has no morals whatsoever, because you said here, in accordance with the agreement, which is absolutely correct. When this assembly was established, the committees were divided in accordance with the agreements that have been in force since 2004, and these arrangements led to the possibility that the Assembly could work as much as it could in accordance with the tasks it had, to do its job, because the opposition, after almost four years, had been able to deal with the position equally in parliament, by obtaining certain committees. Under the agreement, the Administrative Committee belonged to the strongest opposition party, the SRS, in 2004 and 2007. And it all worked out until the yellows decided that they had a spare party here, because they assumed, and it's very justified, that they won't be able to solve any of the only serious problems that Serbian citizens face, and that's why they're left with some to count on or have to discuss the snap elections. As far as I'm concerned, we'll go to an emergency election.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9997	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, you have the advantage, you are the head of the parliamentary group. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I do not, we are all equal here. Mr. Pelevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9998	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected Serbian citizens, Mr Todorovic, I have indeed resigned for moral reasons as chairman of the KIM Committee and as a member of the Education Committee, because these places, these functions belong to the SRS. As far as my term of office is concerned, I received this mandate thanks to the reputation of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Mr Alexander Vukic, and thanks to myself. Hit as hard as you want, it can't distract me, it can only stimulate me. I want to say a few more things. I really want the KIM Committee to meet as soon as possible, and therefore I ask the President of the Assembly to make an appointment as soon as possible, to have the committee set up, to elect a president, a deputy, and that in this situation, when EULEX, indeed illegally, entered the KIM, and when it seems to me that the situation on KIM is becoming increasingly tightened, that this committee is being established and that the work begins. This was not according to the Rules of Procedure, but rather a replica to the presentation of the previous speaker. Once again, I want Dr. Vojislav Seselj to return to Serbia as soon as possible, first to his children, to his family, and then to you, to get you out of a crisis that is really very, very big for you. I'm sorry about that, and I say again, there are a lot of good people among you, honest people, my friends, and I wish you all the best in life and in work. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u9999	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10000	The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I've been accused by an outgoing SRS official here of having no morals, no reputation. You cursed my grandchildren because I informed you that I spoke with Boris Tadic, and the night before last, Tadic's envoy at the house of Vojislav Seselj negotiated with you a strategy and tactics, which was recorded yesterday in your performance. I'm the best man with Seselj's grandkids. I can't even think of what you told me about my grandkids. So it's true that the yellow ones came to the wall and they couldn't make any more decisions because of your obstruction, but it doesn't help them with the SNS, so they needed help from the SRS. They had that help yesterday. Let's see what that help looks like. One thing to understand, none of us want elections anymore, none of you are afraid of choices anymore, because these elections are the end of the national assembly and represent the end of the obstruction of Serbia that you are making. I wish you all the best in my life, but I won't rest until your party disappears from Serbia's political scene. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10001	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree with the fact that a member of your group indirectly accused you of having no morals, because if he had to resign to what belongs to the SRS, it's obvious that you don't have morals because you don't return it to the SRS. As for the resignation of the speaker who resigned as chairman of the KIM Committee, that is not in line with morality either. It is only an attempt to deceive Serbian and Serbian parliamentarian MPs on two committees to resign, in order to leave the president on two committees so that it should belong to this new group according to the number of MPs. It's a fact, nothing else. As for the disappearance, my Tomislav Nikolic, remember this. When Dimitri comes to you for the first time from school, when he grows up and asks you - Grandpa, what really happened to you and Vojislav Seselj, because my kids at school tell me that you betrayed Vojislav Seselj, and when you first hear it, know that you did the worst thing to your descendants, that the sin you did and what you did will cross over to them. And you're aware of that, no matter how hard you try to push it inside you, you're aware that day will come. As for the emissary at Vojislav Seselj and the outgoing officials, it seems that your headquarters, which deals only with plying lies and falsehoods, has realized that more threats to murder, threats to the family, etc., that they are already shabby, that no one is responding to us anymore, and then by old tricks, let us move the ball to another's backyard, so that they have to defend themselves, and we will attack them. None of that, Tomislav, nothing. As for the election, whatever they may be, there will be the will of the people, but we will make sure that all parties are under the eye of someone who will take care of how much money they spend and where they get that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10003	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10004	Mr. Todorovic, when you go to the yellows and ask for money, know they're filming you. That's how you got shot last week when you asked for money to get out of politics and do business. As far as morale goes, SNS tactics finally got into that head. And what's immoral about it -- it belongs to us on two committees, the president, we had four presidential seats, we resigned in two. What's immoral about it? We have two, we have two. We have chosen these two, and you, the congregation majority, can also deprive our presidents into these two committees. So, I'm going to be the chairman of the Administrative Board until I'm relieved, and when you do, there will be someone else. I don't see whether it's moral when someone resigns or when someone doesn't resign, it depends on how the SRS likes it. Don't mention my grandchildren, I'm tired of listening to radicals talk about my grandchildren, turn to yourself. It doesn't make sense, Todorovic. You know very well how attached I am, like you, to your family, let my grandchildren alone, let them develop their lives as they want, let them know at school what they want, and nothing good can come from radicals about me. What radicals currently have in Serbia, it shows. If you rely on a pre-election campaign to be MPs again and you jerks, and what will you say in the election campaign, and who will tell you something about the election campaign, who will bring you the campaign - the ones they wore in Vranjska Banja. In the re-elections, you had zero votes. Where is your chairman of the local committee whose territory these elections were held in Vranjska Banja. The ones they wore to the library campaign, how many percent of the votes did you win? You've included the top of the party in two municipalities and you don't have any councilmen. I suggest you find new people now, young people. You get out of the way, because you've ruined your party with a subjective relationship to Vojislav Seselj. You can't say a word against his strategy right now. He brought you his house, Hansel Dacic, the one we accuse of killing Ranko Panic. You're negotiating money with him, mandates, authorities in Zemun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10005	Mr. Nikolic, take care of qualifications and content.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10006	Mrs. Slavic, continue...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10007	Take care of what you say. You don't have the right to insult people that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10008	I was just saying that radicals are accusing Hans Dacic of being responsible for the death of Ranko Panic, and that's probably the theme of a assembly debate that the radicals are going to ask for again. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, continue to exchange a warm smile with your colleague as I speak and the recipes, probably, right now as I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10009	You're out of time. You have no more words. (Natasa Jovanovic: You have no word, no word. [[Disabled microphone.]] ) I am holding a session of the KIM Committee at 1400 hours, at the Blue Salon there will be a session, with one item on the agenda - the election of the president and vice president. Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I publicly agree, if Tomislav Nikolic proves what he said, and the representatives of the yellow ones would probably be eager to confirm these words, I resign, or resign as MPs in this assembly and resign to all functions in the SRS. But, Mr. Nikolic, don't measure any of your own arches. That's the problem with you. Now I have one more thing to tell you, it's hard to spend so many years with someone and get into this situation. That's what I think every normal person is experiencing in that way and I'm having a hard time experiencing it. But unfortunately, Tomislav, I guess I knew someone else by September 9th. This isn't that man since September 9th, and I'm truly sorry. There's, I guess, something I never believed you were getting close to that grade you gave for Vuk Draskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10011	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10012	I really don't have a worthy rival here, so I don't think I'm getting on. Just one thing to tell you -- I'm really not that man anymore, since September 9th, I've been a very free man. I am completely free to develop my political idea, to influence as much as I can, and to make Serbia a normal country, to have everyone do their job, to have people free in it, to have no command in political parties, to have no such pointless obstructions as you are doing only until the order to change it because it has arrived or money or some sort of deal. So, I really feel normal, free and healthy since September 9th. I'm very happy I don't have to put up with your company anymore. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10013	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10014	Here, just a little bit. The problem is, you should look for advice to see what's normal and what's abnormal. What you're doing now is not only abnormal, it's immoral.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10015	Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10016	I didn't mean to tell you this, but I'm going to tell you, my greatest joy is that I won't have to make any more seats for some of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10017	The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 25a be added after Article 25a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become part of the draft law. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, the minister of justice, want the final word? Yeah. Here you are, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10018	Presidents-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the debate, in particular on a package of judicial laws relating to the organisation of the judiciary, I would briefly refer to the objections of individual MPs who pointed out this in the debate. In the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, I point out that, when this text was drawn up, we have previously carried out an analysis of the work of all judicial authorities and their burden on the number of cases and holders of judicial functions. The analysis covered a three-year inflow of cases, both according to courts and judges individually. Also, an analysis was made of the inflow of cases in relation to the changed jurisdiction of the courts. When considering the required number of courts of first degree jurisdiction, the decision, i.e. the conclusion of the High Council of Justice, is respected to take into account only those substances in which the judges are being tried, and not the materials carried out by judges under the supervision of judges. We have also seen European experiences in this area, so we have defined ourselves for this concept because we believe that in this way the courts will be more uniformly burdened, but also the judges, since it is planned that each judge in the work will be assisted by one judicial assistant and one administrative employee, because it is necessary for judges to dissipate all cases that do not represent a trial. As regards the network of misdemeanor courts, it came from an analysis of the number of cases and in any place where, according to the collected data, the annual inflow of cases required that the court be educated, or the court department, that is, in the draft law, provided. In this regard, I would point out that in the departments of criminal courts, all actions envisaged for the conduct of the infringement proceedings will be carried out, and also in these departments, the judges who have been elected for this department, which is in line with the draft law on the regulation of courts. As for the network of basic courts, the main idea that led us to the proposed solution is that it is not rational to have a large number of small courts, with a small number of judges and a small annual inflow of cases. It is concluded from the above that it is more rational to concentrate the courts, in order to achieve a level playing field for judges in relation to the number of cases, and to satisfy the right to a natural judge, which could not be implemented in a court that has a small number of judges. In this regard, I would point out that the next period will be where all courts in Serbia will be computerised, so that the cases will be shared on the basis of a computer programme, which has been done so far in relation to trade courts. In order not to deny citizens the right to access justice, in all cities and cities in which courts and departments of those courts existed under the applicable law, the existence of judicial units in which all judicial proceedings, including trials, will be carried out. It is not true that MPs who referred to the adoption of this law will have to travel in order to exercise their rights before the courts. On the contrary, according to the proposed solution, citizens will exercise their right to access justice in all those places where they have done so so far, since, as I said, judicial units have been envisaged in all the places where municipal courts have existed so far. The same applies to lawyers, experts and jurors in those places, as well as to the affairs of the judicial administration in judicial units. With regard to solutions relating to the jurisdiction of Belgrade's primary courts, the proposed solution is much more rational, for it will be able to conduct specialisations towards judicial departments within the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Instead of the four municipal courts acting under the applicable law in all matter, we will have in the proposed way one court in which the redistribution of existing judicial buildings, such as in one building, such as the Palace of Justice or the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, will be settled only in the criminal department, and in other buildings of the current municipal courts in Belgrade will be housed in a judicial, or out-of-pard department. The creation of a smaller number of major courts in relation to the existing situation will also result in a level playing field within one court, and there will also be an unification of court practice through the existence of appeals courts in the second instance. With regard to the representation of national minorities in the judiciary, I would like to point out in particular that the proposals of the law on judges and the public prosecutor's office are prescribed that when selecting judicial holders, the equal representation of members of national minorities must be taken into account. Also, as regards the official use of the language of national minorities, we point out that the draft law on the regulation of courts provides that in judicial units and departments outside the seat of courts in the official use of the language of the national minority in accordance with the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. With regard to the solutions set out in the draft law on the regulation of courts relating to the jurisdiction of a particular type and degree of court, I point out that when establishing the bill, we have fully managed the proposal made by the judges themselves, i.e. the Supreme Court of Serbia. I fully agree with the remark that the legislation should then be reformed, in order to free the courts from the acts of jurisdiction they now have, which relate to cases which are not in the narrow sense of words relating to the trial itself. In this regard, I would like to inform you that during the following year, the Ministry of Justice will prepare a law on public notebooks, a law on law on law on law on law enforcement, a law on litigation and a law on mediation. On the issue of the general election of judges provided for by the Law on Judges, I point out that this case is not about any lustration or politicisation of their choice. According to the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the proposal for a law on the regulation of courts, which provides for completely new courts with new jurisdiction over the existing ones, it is necessary to make the choice of all judges in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to point out that this election will be carried out by the High Judicial Council, in which of the 11 members are even seven judges. During the election, the most important issue concerns criteria and criteria to be applied by the High Judicial Council. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the criteria and criteria of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be obtained from the Venice Council of Europe's opinion, all in order to meet the highest European standards. Based on such criteria and criteria, in my opinion, the best judges in the Republic of Serbia will be elected. I would once again point out that this case is not about re-election of judges, but about general elections in the Republic of Serbia, for the reason that the draft law on the regulation of courts provides for a completely different organisation of courts compared to the applicable law. I would point out that the draft budget law to be discussed at the next National Assembly session on the funds provided for by the judicial authorities for the work of the judicial authorities has done everything to provide, in accordance with the possibilities of the Republic of Serbia, sufficient resources for the normal work of the judicial authorities, as well as for the implementation of judicial reform. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate and to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted all amendments to the MPs who contributed to the purpose of the texts of the proposed laws. I hope that in the day to vote you will adopt the proposed laws and thus create a framework for reform, a comprehensive reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10019	We thank Mrs Malović, indeed, for the extraordinary engagement, for the expertise she has made here and especially for the effort she has made to cooperate and to bring this set of laws, here and through this address, to an end. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME (specificities) We move to the eighth point of the agenda, as the finance minister has arrived. By the time I make the introduction, she'll show up, so we'll be able to work. So it's a proposal for a law on public procurement. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milorad Buha, Ognjen Mihajlović, Vesna Marić, Dragan Aćimović, Natasa Jovanović, Marina Ragus, Zoran Krasić, Milan Avramović, Boris Mirović, Filip Stojanović, Mirko Munjic, Marina Toman, Paja Momčov, Ljubomir Kragović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić, Lidija Dimitrijić, Radica Jocić, Dragan Stevanovic, Milan Vjevinović, Milan M. Nikolic, Milovan Radovanović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Tomislav Ljubenović, Goran Mihaljović, Igor Marković, Momir Duvić, Momcilo Duvić, Bojan Mjeljić, Vladan Žović, Rižan Žilić Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić Žilić, Žilić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić, Živić Živić, Drag. You've received amendments from the Finance Committee. The amendment was written by the MPs: Gordana Rajkov. 11th and 28, Momir Markovic on Article 28th and Gordana Pop-Lazic on Article 44. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'm taking a five-minute break until the Ministry's representatives arrive, or the finance minister. [[After break – 11.05]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ms. Verica Radeta, as an amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now after this, as you like to say, a set of judicial laws, Mrs. Minister left, I didn't want to rephrase it, it remains the judiciary in chaos, but we talked about it these days. The draft law on public procurement and amendments submitted by the MPs was obviously a chaos for the government of the Republic of Serbia. On four occasions, the Government delivered its opinion to us, so first it decided on Article 9 and on Article 7, for example. It seems to me that we will also have significant problems about this law and these amendments, not to say, but in any case disagreements with the representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law, in the government's view, is set out in the argument, needs to be adopted by emergency procedure in order to enable anti-corruption authorities to work effectively in carrying out public spending control and ensuring the financial discipline of state authorities, organisations and other legal entities which are obliged to apply the prescribed procedures. This sounds nice, but, of course, it has nothing to do with reality. We had the Public Procurement Act, I remind you, brought in 2002, and changed in 2003, and then in 2004, then in 2005. So this is the fifth attempt to bring order into public procurement. What's this really saying? That the problem is not in the law, and it's never a problem in the law, unless the laws are like these judicial ones, who are really making such a mess that it's impossible to correct them. But if we have and if we have the Public Procurement Act, which was brought in 2002 and then I remind myself of the MPs, spoke and wrote, there is plenty of colleagues sitting here all these years, minors every year since 2000, have changed the Public Procurement Act, and each time these texts of the law here represented something that will absolutely put an end to corruption in Serbia. But, we repeat, it is not a problem in laws, the problem is in those who exercise power, the problem is in those who conduct public procurement and the problem is that the top of Serbia's government is corrupt. This is not just what we Serbian radicals tell you, the daily media in Serbia, no matter how much influence you have on them, this is what the European Commission reports tell you, it is one of the most important problems why in the EU they do not want to hear about Serbia, because so much corruption in one place, as it is now in the government of the Republic of Serbia itself, it is probably not in Europe, but it is not in the globe. We've been talking about the corruption of state authorities for days, we succeed, as in the Bojan Krisht case, to convince those from the airport to pay for his departure ticket in one direction, and that's where it all ends. You know, you can't talk about you having corruption and various affairs, from customs, bankruptcy, "index" affair, "airport" affair, it's hard to remember all the affairs that are in Serbia, and put under the rug, and no one from the government is responding. At least morally and at least say, "Thank you, I'm resigning, I didn't steal or steal anything, I'm not corrupt or corrupt, but if this is what my associates do, if it's what people whose boss I am in some way (then it's moral to get that guy out of the way because he's not corrupt, and he's not able to prevent corruption in his environment), that's enough reason why I'm not doing these jobs anymore. Yesterday I spoke and today I will repeat about an institution that has been talked about a lot and that has been current all these years, represented by Verica Barać, which is as if he is a representative of an NGO and from those of Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic and others. A beautiful woman says that if she asked herself, she would recognise Kosovo and withdraw all charges and countersuits against the neighbours, she said. There's nothing going on here. You believe it's more crime than all that crime she's trying to get to know, before some media is available to her, Serbian citizens. What she was trying to do and what everyone else is trying to do -- to expose corruption groups at the top of the government, we don't think it's supposed to be done, but in Serbia all the authorities should do it. It always sort of settles, when we have some law here, then out of the box, out of the works of that law, there's something in the media that's supposed to distract, and yet it's out of this area. We've got a tender mob yesterday and today, and the police are setting up bad uniforms. We have some interesting writings, of course, I don't want to claim that this is true. This is in the jurisdiction of the state authorities, primarily the judicial and law enforcement authorities. I expect you, Madam Minister, to know what it is and when you are already here to inform the MPs and the public of Serbia what is really true here, because we are here reading about criminal procurement in the MUP, which lasts for years. And it turns out, for example. For 70,000 shirts, it takes about 100,000 feet of fabric. The required fabric is worth three euros per metre, and delivered two or even less, and that is the only difference worth 100,000 euros. Many bidders can't even get to the points, because their fabric, in collaboration with laboratories, is declared incorrect, and it's not uncommon for samples to be replaced by the MUP and sent to a worse analysis. The source from the MUP, which gave all of this to a daily newspaper, points out that recently, under suspicious circumstances, 120,000 shirts with long and short sleeves, 25,000 pants and about 5,000 pieces of intervention uniforms and 10,000 to 12,000 pieces of jackets were purchased. He says there was a shirt tender recently. Nitex, whose people strike because they don't have salaries, was cheaper for about 100 dinars per shirt and didn't pass in the tender. It happens that some companies are cheaper than 50%. Two years ago, a company with one employee got to deliver 70,000 shirts, and the quality of not to talk. When such crimes are done in these cases, it is necessary to see how small purchases are awarded to up to 2.5 million dinars. It's practically a phone call. It's too much to say about classified purchases, says an insider from the MUP for this daily newspaper. Of course, everything is not taken for granted by the media. It's really small or almost incredible, if what's said here is true, that responsible people have the least to do with it. The real question is, not only in this case, but in the case of small purchases, what is in the case of confidential purchases. When we talk about classified procurement, it's mostly the ones from the Ministry of the Army's section. We will have in the course of the day or these days as we discuss this law with a lot of concrete examples. We expect and it would be normal for the minister to have concrete answers, because what we say is mostly a public secret and probably you, Mrs Dragutinovic, have prepared yourself for all issues related to this law. We love that when we talk about amendments, we illustrate this with some specific example. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 1, and Article 1, as usual when it comes to laws, is a member who speaks of what is the subject matter of this law. You are saying that this law regulates the conditions, the way and the procedure for the procurement of goods and services and the admission of works in cases where the contracting authority, organisation, institution or other legal person is designated by this law; determines how contracts and other public procurement data are recorded; determines the activities and forms of organisation of the Public Procurement Authority. Our point is to erase the existence of this public procurement administration, which is absolutely unnecessary. These days, we're talking about a reduction in public spending. You're threatening to share your resignations in various parts of the administration. Of course, the ministries do not touch, not you personally, Mrs Dragutinovic, because neither you nor your ministry nor any minister. You in the ministries are gathering your party staff, you form agencies, administrations, directorates, etc. So that someone else who's going to be in that administration will have a big salary, and then that administration won't have working conditions, so they won't have a room, and then some people will get together, like the other night, we had a chance to watch one of those well-paid boards, the agencies, what do they call it, as they complain that 6-7 of them are sitting there, all in one office and they can't work, but they're getting paid neatly. This is not a way, not only Mrs Dragutinovic in this year, that is, in the following year, which the Prime Minister tells us that we will not live better than we do now, but this is, above all, the principled position of the SRS: if there is a ministry, then the ministry that must, within its services, form whether any sections, departments, etc. And that the ministry is doing its job. Now if we could list within your ministry that all quasiministry exists, and this administration is one of them, then the logical question is: what are you going to do, what are you going to do if we have so many agencies, administrations, directorates and what are you not calling yourself? You say the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the administration, as an expert organisation doing public procurement work, is contributing to the development of a public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia. This is an inconclusive explanation because it doesn't mean anything. Absolutely nothing. Which means management as a professional organization. Don't you have professional people at the Ministry? How many employees do you have at the Ministry? If, in the Serbian government in 2000, when democracy flew through the burning doors of the Federal Assembly and the general burning assembly, there were some 2,800 employees in the ministries and in general in the state administration, today the figure, as far as it is known, is over 30,000. So, you've increased the number of employees more than ten times, you've accumulated the administration, which is obviously not capable of working, because if it were, then you wouldn't need a new professional organization. You admit this way that you don't have enough expertise to do this job. After the 15th minute is up, I'll talk to you later in the day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10022	Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, by amendment, please welcome
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10023	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a few words on the first amendment to the proposal for a law on public procurement, submitted by Ms Verica Radeta, who, in Article 1 after the word "public procurement", says the words "determining the affairs and forms of the organisation of the Public Procurement Board". It is simply that I think that the Public Procurement Administration and that an important part of this law, although in fact in Article 99, the law fully refers to this public procurement administration and says that this is a special organisation that does professional work in the field of public procurement, provides conditions for the economic, efficient and transparent use of public financial resources for public procurement and fosters the competitiveness and equality of bidders in the procurement process. National administration regulations apply to the work and organisation of this administration. Furthermore, Article 100 of the Law also describes the precise business of this public procurement administration. It's just that I think that the important segment of the public procurement process is this public procurement administration, and that's why I think she finally needs to give one new, additional light, because it just kind of stayed in the shadows, even in this bill. I think that the Public Procurement Administration is exactly the element that can shed light on many cloudy jobs, so to speak, about the public procurement process, and just if citizens have the possibility of having this transparency finally and realized, means that they are following the public procurement process, in any way and getting to know each other, they will have the opportunity to spot corruption and in this way something that is hidden becomes clear, public and socially condemned. Corruption and how it has been spoken of by the Public Procurement Office even by the current director of this administration, Mr. Predrag Jovanovic, who quite calmly declares that corruption in public procurement takes away 800m euros annually and that it is an indirect pity that from poorly executed works or purchases of inadequate equipment is far greater. Serbia spends annually on public procurements of at least four billion euros, and the largest participation in these procurements is public enterprises, republican or municipal. What I'm saying is that if the director of the Public Procurement Administration can calmly say that 800m euros in Serbian citizens' funds go into the fire, because they practically go away by doing very bad work, which is what citizens do and how they feel about their skin, either getting bad quality equipment or completely inadequate equipment. Here I am going to apostrophe of the sea of equipment used by hospitals, health centres and other things, because simply citizens say - the apparatus is purchased as such at a health center, and they can't use it, but are referred to elsewhere, which is very much information we have as MPs because citizens have warned us about it, but it can also be read in research done by the International Bank, which says that health care in Serbia has the most corruption. With such a high degree of corruption that clearly exists in Serbia, and I will remind you, let's say, of the report by the organisation "Greko", which has been hidden from the public in Serbia for so long, which appeared at one point when the government estimated that it could no longer be hidden, and I will also warn about the investigation into the perception of corruption of foreign business people, risk analysts. Even so unhappy and impoverished Serbia and its citizens, who have such a low standard anyway, that it cannot even be taken under what the government has promised while in the pre-election campaign trying to animated citizens to vote for it, therefore, with such a degree of corruption and poverty, the loss of the funds of Serbian citizens, Serbia will be even more on the blacklist of those countries that have a very high degree of corruption. No normal and serious businessman will come here to invest or use capital for the benefit of Serbian citizens if he has to count on that business - how much I come to you and where I'm going to fit in. This is particularly true of those procurements that are not public, so-called ‘public’. confidential purchases, which in one part we understand why they are confidential, because they refer to the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of the Army, but on the other hand they must be verifiable, if it cannot be from ordinary citizens, then it can certainly be from an auditory house official or from MPs in this assembly, special commissions, etc. So they must be clearly controlled because they are exactly the space in which such abuses can be committed. Also, I mean the so-called. Small acquisitions, where the law is very elegantly bypassed and where in a series of small short procedures in fact lead to the same effect, some powerful equipment is obtained, for example, with very many resources, and the Public Procurement Act is completely avoided, which could somehow follow a trail of money. So, the problem of corruption has been recognised by citizens, and I think that Serbian citizens can tell us a lot more about corruption than we can talk about here, and it is very important that we hear what the citizens say, especially those who have participated in some way with their companies in procedures and tenders, where in such ridiculous ways they are rejected, that if we read the reasons for what they are complaining about, it would be really very little time for us to talk about how big the problem is. Political parties recognized the problem of corruption. In all his pre-election promises, there is no party that has not talked about fighting corruption, but what is interesting, the parties that have now come to power, the fight against corruption ended up about arresting Goran Knezevic, as mayor of Zrenjanin, and thus broke the fight against corruption. Approximately, there is no more corruption in the country. On the other hand, these days, the media is opening up the issue of these in uniform for police officers as one of the variants of corruption, but I think as a DSS MP, who's in the previous two governments, and as she has shown she knows, she can and wants to fight corruption, I need to remind her of the bankruptcy mafia, the road mob, the mob that has abused pension funds, the customs mafia, the football mob, and not to add any more. Simply as someone from a party who has shown that they can fight corruption, I want to tell the ministers and the Serbian government that and how important it is to fight this monster Serbia and how important it is for the citizens of Serbia that on a future list of corrupt countries Serbia is not exactly 85th with such a high level of corruption. We see that around the 2009 budget, which has arrived in front of lawmakers these days, has problems with budgeting and it is very important that the government understands the possibility that, if it is fighting corruption, at least these 800m euros quoted by the director of the Public Procurement Office can be merged into Serbia's budget and benefit Serbia's citizens without spilling into the private pockets of friends, godfathers and business partners of our ministers and directors of public enterprises. And that it is also important that the impose on budgeting is no longer imposed on citizens and that it is no longer placed on the agenda stories of registrations that will cost citizens as three months or four months' wages of each average Serb, but simply to keep these budgets safe, and in the best possible way to spend. While I've been talking about public procurement abuses here, I'm going to use my right to ask another question concerning the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, that's what it's called now. The question is: From which firm did the Ministry get ji-pi-es devices, how much money did they pay for it, and did the procurement procedure take place during this procurement? My information here is that there has been a classic abuse of the Public Procurement Act and that under the heading of the need to protect the cars of the Ministry, simply not stolen, that they can be followed, there has been a huge purchase, which has not been caused, and that in this way the large funds of Serbian citizens have been spent, and that the reason for the purchase has been shown to be completely missed, because one of these vehicles has been stolen. I think you've recorded my question and I'm going to get an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10024	Thank you. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Miletic Mihajlović and Zoran Kasalovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Vervain Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10025	When I spoke about this amendment to Article 1, why do we think there should be no Public Procurement Administration, among other things, in addition to everything I've said about the accumulated administration and because, in view of the experience, it's only intended to be that everything that's done in this country is fully controlled by some lobby. Of course, at the head of that lobby must be the finance minister, so far it has been, Mrs Dragutinovic, I don't know if you're going to interrupt that practice. On Article 2, we have two amendments, first of all to point 21. There is a title above Article 2 - the terms and meaning of the term, which is also the newspaper that you brought from the EU and we have always asked you - what does it really mean to you - is just to make it fatter, to make the law more serious to you. It is unnecessary for the law to say what the term means, but we have given up such amendments, to propose erasing those members, although you could always say that, because here you explain to us what public procurement is, what a contract is, what is an offerer, a candidate, public procurement procedures, competitions, etc. It's something that has no place in this law or any other law. But, while you're explaining, in point 21 of point 1, you say, there are good moving things, products and equipment, electricity, raw materials and reproductive material in solid, liquid and gas form. The amendment we've intervened that, in addition to moving things, there should be stationary things. It is that, in the context of public procurement and the purchase of mobile goods, big commissions are taken in Serbia, that it is a basic source of corruption, but it is amazing that you do not accept that the subject matter of this law is also the acquisition of immovable things. Immobilities often have a higher value or generally greater value than movable things, and we do not accept the government's argument that this is not accepted for the reason that, as a general standard in the comparative right of public procurement, it is not applicable to the purchase of immovable items by public procurement rules. But trust you on this European standard. That's why all these things happen when it comes to corruption and crime. That's why it may happen that you are assigning villas to the Daedina, that the source of the acquisition of these villas is unknown, that you assign them for certain merits, only known to you, but it is quickly known throughout Serbia. Unfortunately, we're a small country, so everything gets out, and there's no secret that can be a secret for a long time. You say - in the current practice of applying the applicable Public Procurement Act, it has also proved almost impossible to carry out a procedure for the purchase of fixed goods. This is really the height of the insolence when it comes to the government in relation to the MPs. You're still explaining to us why. You say - it is impossible to give up the purchase of a specific facility or land which is only suitable for the sole reason that the offer of a particular bidder, often a natural person, is incorrect, due to the failure to provide any evidence of compliance with the terms of the Public Procurement Act. Please explain to us how impossible it is to give up on the purchase of such an immovable property. You're still saying -- it's almost impossible to ensure that offers are comparable, both in buildings and in land, because their price is affected by a number of different factors, flooring, location, age, etc. Mrs Dragutinović, when you buy yourself an apartment, do you visit, find out, compare prices? Is it possible, then, for you to ensure that offers are comparable? When you buy for state money, it's impossible to provide you with a comparable offer. This is really scary. You say - by strictly applying the rules of public procurement, the client, even if he wanted to conduct an open procedure, should not specify the location, because it would be obvious that it points to a specific bidder, although only a specific location is appropriate. What does this mean? You can't publish it in the public of the bidder. How do you get to the bidder? Trange-frange activities. That's the point. That's why we told you at first in the principle debate, you're free of the law when you're not willing to carry it out. This is really, Mrs. Dragutinović, amazing. You'll have to explain to us how you acquire real estate if you don't conduct an open, public procedure. Why would you protect information if someone wanted to sell something? If he sells to the government, he's ready to sell to his colleague Vlatka Ratkovic. It's even better to know that there's competition, that there's immobility, that immovableity is the subject of sales, and it's really an incredible explanation for you. In addition to the above, it should be borne in mind that the acquisition of real estate in state property is regulated by the regulations governing the area of property-legal relations (the Law on assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia). You will also need this, Mrs Dragutinović, to explain to us, to read to us which member of this law provides for obtaining, i.e. public procurement of immovable things into state property. This law regulates something completely different and completely different and does not speak at all about any purchases. In the same Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 25 you say - electronic bidding is the kind of bidding that the client can conduct in the procurement process once or twice in electronic form. There is a change in bids: a new lower price or improvement of bids within predetermined criteria. We have suggested that these words "in public procurement" be replaced by the words "in the negotiation process of public procurement without publication of a public call". It explains that the amendment lays down a procurement procedure in which it is only feasible to conduct an electronic bid, in the manner that the provision of Article 2 of the 25th act provided for by the legislator, that auctioning takes place in order to amend the offer, which means a new lower price or improved offer within the already established criteria. Therefore, only in the proposed procedure achieves the desired objective of electronic bidding, which is the lower price for the contracting authority, that is the state, the state authority, while there is no bidding in other procedures, as the price from the offer remains fixed for the purpose of ranking. You say that you cannot accept this amendment and you said that only when you have considered amendments in the Government, I must remind you all day long that we need to prepare for each amendment to come out at least a minute while we're at it, because you first talk about an amendment to Article 7, and then Article 7, and then Article 2, and Article 2, again, Article 17, and then there on the second piece of paper, Article 9. Did you purposely want to confuse us and put us in a position that we cannot cope with these views of yours, or the government's opinion? But here's why you didn't accept the amendment to Milorad Buha. You say - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that negotiation is also possible in the negotiation process with the publication of a public call, and all procedures in which the application of the electronic bid will be possible will be provided for in a sublegal act adopted by the finance minister under Article 54(3). It's a bill of law. So again we have incomplete law, again we have a law that next year we're going to change, it's going to be the sixth attempt to bring order into public procurement and fail again. You should not, Mrs Dragutinovic, suggest that you bring sublaws, but that everything related to public procurement should be regulated by this law. When I speak this way I certainly don't mean you personally, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I believe you understand that. If it is your sincere intention, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to bring order into public procurement, then you must by this law all the way down to detail to regulate. If this is the fifth attempt to regulate this law, we now have a new proposal, are no longer changing and supplementing, but indeed every year, we have been engaged in several days' proposals to the Government on public procurement, that is, the Public Procurement Act, and every time in the meantime the biggest corruption and criminal affairs took place, precisely in the application or non-application of the Public Procurement Act. And then when you announce it and the media is saying that MPs of the opposition, first of all, because they want to talk about government proposals, actually obstruct Parliament's work, which, of course, has nothing to do with common sense, then don't distract us in this way, because you're actually obstructing the work of Parliament, first because you didn't give us the budget bill in time, or in the procedure, for the next year, but we'll talk about it for so long that I'll probably call the next minister by your last name, like you just named Mrs. Malovic. Sutanovac, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, thank you for reminding me, will be mentioned more times because of the Law on Public Procurement, because of the law and for all criminal and corruption affairs within the Ministry. You see how you know who's in your party, who made the most of the mistakes of the Public Procurement Act. Thank you for the reminder, but we would remember Mr. Sutanovac in this context and if you hadn't mentioned it to us, but I saw, as soon as the government didn't accept your amendment to the law on the network of courts, there was some problem between you and some in the government. You had to tell us it was a problem with Dragan Sutanovec. The whole of Serbia has a problem with Dragan Sutanovac and don't, you're not lonely, just so you know. This explanation of why I deliberately spoke of these two amendments at the same time. Mrs Dragutinović, your explanation for point 21 and point 25, if you were looking at it, because I know it's service, I'm sorry, time is up, look, your explanations are collapsing. We do have a case again that ministers do not take care of what they represent to the MPs. You've had a chance to communicate with us so you can see that we're following closely what you're writing and what you're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10026	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, MP Zoran Kasalovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10027	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that the applicant is engaged is quite right, because the lack of respect for the amendments opens up a broad possibility that under the conditions laid down in the law, relating to procurements which are not subject to the law, various criminal acts may occur. Indeed, as I have before me materials about the tender, whose official mark is TSASG/MOH01, which refers to a very important procurement, which is almost at the end of its realisation, and refers to the purchase of a dialysis machine for the Republic of Serbia, for dialysis centres, which are almost not needed. It's only part of a story, and the essence of the story should probably develop when the finance and health minister also takes account of what the government is doing and why this project, as it was done, is being conceived. Let's get back to the beginning of the story. Somewhere in February, the finance ministry and the health ministry are investigating a tender for the purchase of dialysis machines. Of course, according to the established procedure concerning the behaviour of the European Investment Bank, one model that is quite patterned and that can be reached by anyone who wants to apply in the tender. The conditions set up at the time are available to the company "Fresenius Medical Care" when it has participated, paid and purchased the tender documentation and as a potentially interested participant in the tender could immediately see the elements of the tender based on which it immediately submitted the request, immediately prior to the opening of the tender procedure cancellation documentation. Then, not yet knowing the exact content of the one whose eunuch was later accepted, they went on the basis of which the effect was to be seen so-called. more force - Force mayor, or economic and technical changed circumstances compared to what is in the tender. Since the funder of the tender is an Italian government, which has indeed given several hundred in continuity, perhaps 200m euros so far, a donation of different ones, and this year it intends to continue to work, it is clear that it is necessary to express its gratitude to the government of the state, which is also covered by the recession, which is not a small amount of money to be allocated to this tender. But we remain prompted -- is the situation really recorded in 2002, when Serbia really needed several hundred dialysis machines, now the same condition, and is it still necessary, and not a small amount, but 355 dialysis machines? Currently, there are about 860 or so in Serbia, including those in the so-called ". private dialysis, which the patients themselves get to do so-called. Home dialysis. That's almost 40% of the market in one tender to change. The question is, is this also a process that is in line with good European tender practice? What's the matter? On April 3rd, the interested party of the authorised "Medical Kera" in Italy submits an application for the suspension of the tender procedure and signs, no less than Srdjan Lalic, the "pe-mu" director, so they call it shortened, I don't know what it means, but he is a member of the evaluation committee and a member of the tender committee, the signature, date, hour of reception, everything is in the documentation. The next day is April 4th, tender documentation opens, the received letter opens and qualified as an incomplete offer. Although it was clear in the terms of the tender that they could compete in the tender as the bidder for the production in Italy, a clean Italian firm. So they were just interested parties and they didn't apply for a tender. Did they, because under the conditions of the 24th position A tender, could and were not limited by the fact that the participants of the tender were not directly involved, to apply for its suspension, then for two basic reasons - this higher power is indeed the fact that the question of whether Serbia needed 355 new machines and whether the economic and technical circumstances were the same as they were in 2002, when such aid was agreed on and agreed on, was understood. A lot of questions in the meantime can be asked. Where was the Minister of Health's communication with the relevant Minister of Health in Italy? We don't need that. If you want to help healthcare you have other ways, other options. We may need to do a home of health, about as much value as possible, fully equipped, to buy 160 Italian brand vehicles, to help with the flag. There was a way, probably someone'll explain it sometime. Did it ever go in the attempt of that kind? Maybe not. It opens up, of course, a set of other questions. The tender opens on April 4th, an orderly record, passing only by the Italian company "Hospal", other Italian waste, and of course "Frezenius medical because" did not even compete. However, what he has submitted as a request for suspension has been assessed as incomplete tender documentation. All their efforts further, when they succeeded then and later to see what was wrong with the tender documentation, which is why the tender could be either incorrect, or technically inconsistencies, or procedural errors they encountered, did not get answers, although they also had talks with Mr Zoran Cirovic, the State Secretary, and handed over such a memo and finance ministers. Cirovic did not answer them, and Lalic showed a number of failures, participating almost cheerleaders in this tender process. Where can you see it? In our law we know, we talked about it, so-called The weighting, when it's worth it, by the criteria that have been given in advance, and the value given to them, you value the purchase of the bidder, as he performed in the tender in the offer. Here, however, there is a single grid that should be something that is assessed by the terms of the tender with passed-failed – passed or fell, satisfied or failed to satisfy the condition. By creating such a grid, on which this gentleman named Srdjan Lalic worked as a member of the commission, it was made that the only offer that was accepted, despite the technical shortcomings, was considered valid, to go into contract signing, and here the import is now finished, going to the next step, which would be the next one, because they would have to address the Medicines Agency, to now distribute this medical tool, for which there is simply no applicable authorisation in Serbia's territory. Now that they are doing it in a shorter and faster process, there are opportunities in the rulebook and for that, but why speedy procedure, why shortened, when there are enough dialysis machines in Serbia, when no one has shown particular needs. I wouldn't say this in terms of some promotional speech for Frezenius, but I've been asking questions and turning many dialysis centers and getting many letters from the association, specifically the Vojvodina Association, the Health Department. Many dialysis centers have said -- we don't need it, it'll end up under the sheet, it'll end up in some warehouse, maybe a few of those machines we take to renovate the spare machines. Because in Serbia, about 700 dialysis machines have been refurbished from 2002 to 2008. The mass of them was, and the vast majority, of this very firm, Frezenius, a German company that invests in us as well. And it's not insignificant and that fact, why by introducing almost half of the dialysis machines, we're disrupting fixed relationships. In the context of the application, remarks they later found, the interested party "Frezenius Medical", it was seen that there were numerous technical deficiencies. Let's say, in the tender, and as a qualifying grid, they were introduced so-called. Subcontracting statement and so-called Auxiliary service. The tender doesn't know those terms. No such terms were found in "glossary." That should cover up something the bidder didn't have and couldn't show, and that's the post-sales service. They offered themselves some co-operant in Serbia, the Medicon company, which is a purely private firm, has some business-technical cooperation contracts with Hospal, but has no qualified service, which according to this programme seeks the value of 150 000 euros, requires vehicles, equipment, requires a lot of what the company is unable to do. It's one thing of what was discovered when the tender documentation was opened, where the qualification grid was fully pre-adjusted, as if whoever created it knew what kind of offer it came from the Italian company Hospal. So the consumable material, one of the technical disadvantages is that. For 355 machines you need to buy consumer material in Italy. Now we're going out of the budget money, the machine is a donor, but the expendable material you have to pay. The condition of the tender was that it must be compatible with another brand. Some other consumer material manufacturer can be put, used on that machine. So then the distribution list was made where the machines would go. The health ministry's request, since both ministries participated, is not just about one story, goes to users on July 14th, and the response on July 16th has to come back. It was faxed, it was going at speed. The centers I asked, they said they had to do it, because they were suggested in principle -- if it's free and the cheese is sweet, or it doesn't matter, the principle is -- take it or leave it. Is that how it works? Does it make sense to whoever gave that money, that's three and a half million euros? Does it make sense not to use it? Then why did we devalue the gift we got? And how are we supposed to use it, throw out 355 correct machines to use it? On the side of the stories, which could have remained in normal government and minister communications, the goodwill of the one who gives us a hard time donation, but to take things more seriously and to use it for smarter purposes, maybe five scanners, three magnetic resonances, maybe 1,500 artificial fertilizations, so it would be 400-500 children. A lot of things could have been done for that money if the one who gave us help wanted to be honest with us. And why leave the question whether it's an intervention on the market that's dumped or otherwise. So we want to show once again that intervention under this amendment means that you are not in a position, if it is a tender, public procurement excluded from this law, to exercise your right, if you complain, there is no one to protect you. Here is a concrete example, when Fresenius Medical Emperor asked for protection and for someone to respond to the request, they received a reply from the Public Procurement Authority, the Commission for the Protection of Rights, that the said procurement had no character of public procurement and therefore could not intervene. Who do you complain to? It remains that you place it to the public or change the laws by amendment, to introduce order, so that it is known that in such large crafts as this one does not introduce many other disadvantages. On the side, what has also been established as one technical feature, which is completely past the tender documentation, does not correspond to the tender documentation, four important shortcomings, including, let's be less important, translation into Serbian software, and we know, we have long passed the law by which it must be done. These are technical details, not to bother the citizens of Serbia, but essential to patient safety. Now the story has begun that Solarevic gives permission to distribute these machines throughout Serbia. Since we have no experience with these machines, we must surely spend some time applying them, checking their efficiency, and seeing what and how they can be distributed. The centers they got, like these in Kragujevac, 19 machines, so they have nowhere to put them, they have to build a warehouse to remove it or to remove the good, preserved machines, which have a lifetime of work none more than 20,000 hours, it's pointless little for such devices. No center works on three shifts. The amount of apparatus gives the opportunity to work in two shifts. So there was no need to assume that it was going into such an investment and that 3.5m euros were just spent on this. So, what's the point? What's the basis? How much did the Italian partner know we didn't need this to this extent? How skillfully silent is that? There are a lot of questions left for this. We therefore believe that any intervention with regard to improving the conditions and controlling the tender procedure for those who are not subject to the principles of this law is welcome, even if specific laws are created, special annexes or specific regulatory mechanisms, rules which could be controlled. You can see that the damaged party, and when complaining at the highest level, doesn't get an answer, even if the information I have until December 1st hasn't given them that answer. Thank you. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10028	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10029	Mrs. Komic, first of all, I have to remind you that you have violated Article 27, which obliges you to respect the Constitution, Article 102, paragraph 2, and the law. I know you're going to say that that's not true, that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and so let the Parliament vote be made clear in the day that there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Now I would really ask you something, because these opinions of the Government, which I've already talked about twice, are really making a lot of chaos and inability to report in time to the amendments, so I ask you best to make sure that according to this synopsis that you have, you say which amendment is now current, that you announce whose amendment is and which member is next. This is not common, and this is quite serious, because it is impossible, we have one government opinion of 10.12, the second since 14 November, someone since 7 November and there are no amendments complex in order. We simply cannot react and the only way is for you to announce the next amendment, so that whoever plans to talk about the amendment can prepare both the amendment and the government's opinion. I hope that won't be a big problem for you. Article 7, but not only of Article 7, but at all this law is in any case, and that is a general opinion, I am sure, in fact, public procurement itself, are the source of the biggest crime and corruption in the state of Serbia. As much as you do or don't regulate it by law, as long as there is no change in the awareness of those who make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia or at least one part of those in the government, for whom there are criminal charges for various malfeasances, a lot of facts brought out in public and a lot of talk about tenders, commissions, money stolen in this way from Serbian citizens, as long as it doesn't change, you're free of laws, you can't just by law. In fact, you've been able to prevent so much from laws so far, but unfortunately there is no will in the very government of the Republic of Serbia to face corruption and crime properly. You are proposing these laws to Parliament and you are adopting them here because they are a condition for you, and in fact they are not a condition for you to do something legal, but a serious fight against corruption and crime, the eradication of corruption and crime from the top of the government, from public enterprises whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, remains at lower levels. As long as this problem is not overcome, as long as the Criminal Code is not seriously applied, as long as the crime goes to prison, there are none of these laws, they remain just a dead letter on paper. All that was regulated by this law, this proposal of yours, and what was regulated by the 2002 Public Procurement Act, and amended and amended three times in the meantime, the violation of these laws could have been brought under the Criminal Code. And it could also be responsible for various abuses, from tender sales and criminal privatisations to public procurement crimes, when it comes to movable goods, since you have made it impossible for fixed goods to be hit and implemented by this law. I'll remind you only, when it was last year, former Parliament Speaker Oliver Dulic first announced that we're going to take some underground tunnel that he's going to dig from this building to the former Federal Assembly building, now the House of the National Assembly, as it is called. Immediately afterwards, he said that somewhere in the media, he would get laptops for easier work, economics when it comes to saving paper, etc. and about some law, and after that it was announced that Mr. Dulic had a firm dealing with the purchase of computers and computer equipment, and I just asked him if it was true that he had this company and that it had something to do with the announcement of laptops for MPs and immediately afterwards the story was interrupted. So, I didn't charge him, I didn't assume, I just asked him, the man interrupted the story of getting laptops for the MPs. Of course, this reminder is not because I think the Assembly's MPs need to get laptops, because every MP, if they need to, can also get a laptop and a computer. And the fact that, and then we talked about it was planned for MPs, it was certainly better to send schools around Serbia, etc. It's not a topic right now, but it's a really interesting example and it's talking about how it's almost impossible to conduct any public procurement in Serbia without there being a famous "where I am". That is why, among other things, this amendment to Article 7 paragraph 1 (2) is Ognjen Mihajlovic. This Article 7 speaks of procurements not subject to the law. This member is particularly interesting when it comes to the possibility of corruption and crime. Even if he's precise, he's in the condition we're in, it's a great danger, but it's especially a great danger when it's not precise enough and when you don't want to accept the amendment solution to specify this article. Article 7 paragraph 1 of point 2) of the Government's proposal states that the provisions of this law do not apply to procurements subject to different procurement rules which are implemented: (a) under an international agreement relating to the supply of goods, the execution of works, the provision of services or public competition for drafts; (b) from foreign credit (loan) funds in accordance with the specific procedures of international organisations. What's our intervention with the amendment? To delete these words that the provisions of this law are not applied to procurements subject to different rules, but to say "of which special laws are prescribed different rules". This is an amendment that I don't know why you didn't accept, unless you want to consciously contribute to the possibility of abuse of this law and public procurement itself. The amendment clearly foresees when the application of this law can be excluded, and in situations where public authorities or institutions, as the client of goods, services or works, purchases are financed by means obtained by international organisations and they are exempted from the application of this law, but only if it is prescribed by a special law, and so it is written in the light of this amendment. Indeed, Mrs Dragutinović, every different solution leaves space, leaves the possibility, first of all, of subjective interpretation of the law. Now we ask: whose subjective interpretation of the law? What are the different rules that aren't premeditated? These different rules must be clearly and loudly referred to and precisely to be said in this law, or at least to say which are provided for in specific legislation, and then we can count on already having it regulated or regulated by some other law. What you have not accepted is this amendment, it can lead us to tendingly bypassing public procurement procedures, which is what opens up the possibility of malfeasance, opens up the possibility of abuse and shows the essence, which I am talking about for the third time today, and the bottom line is that there is no will in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no intention of facing corruption and crime seriously. As long as this is the case, these laws have no purpose, and you won't even show that you have such an intention by accepting, say, such an amendment, which would really mean that, at least you, as a representative of the government, have the will and intention to face corruption and crime, because that's how you represent yourself in public. Instead, you say that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why if an international agreement is concluded for the implementation of certain procurement and that agreement provides for the application of certain procurement rules, the provisions of the Public Procurement Act will not apply. You really didn't say anything about this or I'm not smart enough to understand this, but this really doesn't mean anything. You further say, "It is not necessary for such an exception to be prescribed by some special law, other than the Public Procurement Act (we tell you that, the Public Procurement Act, but that it should focus on some other law, not on the good will or bad intention of someone applying this law), because such a solution has a foothold in Article 16(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which determines that international contracts are an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and are directly applied, provided, of course, that they must comply with the Constitution and be confirmed in the National Assembly, as will be the case in this case." What does the Serbian Constitution have to do with the proposed amendment and your rejection of the amendments? Mrs Dragutinović, if you can explain it to me, it's an honor. You say further: "Also, under that provision of the Constitution, the rules of international organisations are treated as generally accepted rules of international law as an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and are directly applicable. Thus, no exception which provides that procurement financed from foreign credit funds, in accordance with the specific procedures of international organisations, is to be subject to the Public Procurement Act, is to be prescribed by some other special law, in addition to the Public Procurement Act and the Constitution. In this respect, it is very important to note that the selection of these rules will be laid down in a sublegal act which, pursuant to Article 7(2). The law on public procurement, the Minister of Finance, and the list of organisations whose rules can be applied instead of the Public Procurement Act will be laid down. The aim of this sublegislative act will be to lay down the rules of international organisations" etc. So, Mrs Dragutinović, seeing as it stands out for 15 minutes, you are a very brave woman when you have provided for yourself by law the possibility that you, by law, bring a certain list, establish a list of organizations that will not be subject to the Public Procurement Act. From the moment this law is passed in this parliament, Serbian citizens should know that the only one responsible for all public procurement malfeasances will be Mrs Dragutinovic, because she has left herself the possibility that she will not be subject to the Public Procurement Act, instead of accepting the amendment, to say that it is regulated by certain laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10030	Anybody else answer for a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Batic, received his word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10031	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. A question for the government, and I'm using your presence as well. My question concerns what will the state do about the remuneration of the military reserve logs? Why am I asking that question? Because last year, the government under pressure from the protests, in order to deport abuses in southern Serbia's courts, paid for about 10,000 Toplico County reserves of 25m euros, or about two billion dinars in that course of eight dinars for the euro, and yet in translation it means two and a half thousand euros per man, or 200,000 dinars for each Toplician region's military reserve. At a meeting in the government, as the pronoun of these reserves, I immediately told the Minister of Finance at the time, and told today's prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, that he had opened Pandora's box because it was not all people or all the reservers who had the right to make up for that time spent during the mobilization during the 1999 NATO Pact intervention. Of course, it is repeated, already many reservers across Serbia have begun to press charges. After that, in order to absorb the dissatisfaction of people from Leskovec, Kruševac, Nis, Babusnica, the entire Third Army and other parts of Serbia, the government began some negotiations. I was present at a few of these meetings, and it was said that there should be a regulation, in other words a law or a sublegal act that would arrange that matter. There were some Trojan horses in the ranks of reserve representatives. Anyway, none of that happened. I'm talking about the previous government. However, the problem continues. The state must take a clear view, or that publicly, loudly and clearly, it says, we will not pay anyone any more compensation or we will pay, we can do so much or so, and that simply these people are not like those characters from the story of Lazarevic "All these people will gold". Therefore, the constitutional principle, i.e. the right to prohibit discrimination under Article 21, cannot be violated. A constitution that says that all citizens are equal before the law and the Constitution. It turns out they're not the same. The state of Serbia for some is a mother, and for some it is a stepmother. So, I'm looking for an answer to that question, how are we going to solve the problem of the military reserve logs, given that some of these people have already been paid off... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. 25m euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10032	The word is by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10033	According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have had the opportunity to make sure that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and Mr. Tomislav Nikolic have in some way won their first victory and related to breaking the SRS and reducing and preventing the defence of Mr. Vojislav Seselj before the International Court in The Hague. Today, the court in The Hague decided that the documents and information could no longer be made available to certain members of the legal team, such as Mr Zoran Krasic and Mr Slavko Jerkovic. I believe that they have indirectly excluded them from the work of the legal team, the people who have worked intensively to prepare his defenses. We believe in the SRS that this is the first victory, that Mr. Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic lead with 1:0, and we will find a way and time to level that score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10034	National MP, if you are referring to members 225 and 226, and as agreed to use these members, then you must make an appropriate request from that member to make an explanation request from the authorities and organisations. Otherwise, you leave me no room but to warn you that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that it is subject to Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Article 7 of the amendment is based on Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Finance Committee. The government has accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament to Gorica Mojovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Vesna Marić. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10035	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an amendment submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic, should be accepted, since he is promoting the text of this law and, on the other hand, edits in a better way the application of this law and prevents a number of possible abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that this amendment be adopted. But, if you will allow me, within these topics which today, and even in previous days, were in this House, I would draw your attention and also ask the Minister of Finance, Mrs Dragutinovic: when will the workers of the Slave House be paid what is the obligation, and since there are many, that many families are threatened, that they are damaged and that many have remained on the street? On the other hand, I ask the question of Minister Mrs Dragutinovic, are you familiar with the decision of the Trade Court in Belgrade No. St. 802/97, of 5. 2. 2008? Do you also know that the bankruptcy manager, based on the bankruptcy procedure in which he participated, received 460,402,571,00 dinars in the Slave Houses? Does the government have any intention of preventing a common national robbery? Is that bankruptcy manager on the loose? Do judges who make such decisions still judge this country? So, is the Minister of Economy or what minister brought in that super-navigation and, I must say, the criminal rule of compensation and reward to the bankruptcy directors? This is very dangerous and undermines our country's budget system. If that's true, that 460 million received a bankruptcy manager, I don't know if the minister, who passed such a rule on the fees and rewards of bankruptcy managers, a place on the loose or in prison. This is incomprehensible. I believe, ladies and gentlemen and you MPs from the position that you will not agree that such a fee or reward will be paid to individual bankruptcy managers. This is a bankruptcy mob that steals and robs. That individual robbed 460 million dinars of Belgrade's department store workers. How many of them were involved in bankruptcy in the Republic of Serbia? How many of them who had 10 and 20 bankruptcys, where were the bankruptcy managers in those jobs, and who can tolerate this more? For example, under the applicable rules for the compensation of bankruptcy managers, if the value of the bankruptcy weight is 2,001 euros, the bankruptcy manager should be further increased and he should receive compensation and a reward for his work of 2,400 euros. And not to mention if it is 100,000 euros, 200,000 euros, 1,000 euros or more millions of euros. Please note, yesterday, Madam Minister, I mentioned here and the MPs of the SRS are limited by one fact, that in the bankruptcy procedure "Agroziva" in Pančev is a bankruptcy manager intended for his compensation and a reward of 650,000 euros, and that the bankruptcy manager has privileges and established a monopoly in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, Subotica, Sombor, Novi Sad and Zrenjanin, and that I do not count. This is unacceptable. This isn't understandable. This is not what the people deserve. This is not the kind of authority the people deserve. The rule, one was brought in in 2005 by the previous minister, and this one now in force was brought by Minister Dinkic. I ask that an answer be given from the Government: will that rule be changed, that such privileges be abolished and the robbery prevented? Because bankruptcy managers rob workers. How? Because out of the bankruptcy crowd, they need to be paid the amount that's enormous, there's no such thing as the Wild West. This is terrible. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you were able to gain insight into the numerous decisions of the courts, you gentlemen of the DS and G17 yourself would be in a position to condemn it. But here, I'm giving you information, and you check that information, get reports of trade courts in Serbia. You'll see, you'll find it's an organized gang that steals and robs Serbian citizens. So, from the mass of bankruptcy is taken and rewarded. Instead of compensation, the rule says reward. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when out of the register and out of that bankruptcy mass of Belgrade's Robing Houses were awarded a bankruptcy manager with four and a half million euros, or 460,000,000 dinars. For this, one-time assistance can be paid to disabled, poor citizens of Serbia, socially endangered, at least one 10,000. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't household behavior. We who sit in this House have the right to seek answers to these very important and serious issues, and we have an obligation. I particularly draw attention to the DS, whether the DS will finally carry out a review of these cases, to prevent this robbery and to prevent this country from going down. Banks are being introduced, bankruptcys are getting rich, but what is tragic for Serbian citizens and workers in these companies where bankruptcys are taking place is tragedy and disaster per worker, who did not deserve the mobsters to come to them and the mobsters to rob their property, this property that they were building from the 45th to today, and that everything is finally being destroyed and finally dealt with with by the workers. Such a capitalist policy does great harm to this Serbia. Why didn't the Slovenians join this robbery and shameful privatisation? They did not take care of what the citizens and workers of Slovenia were building and creating. They did not allow thieves to rob and take on workers. Madam Minister, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you a question. Madam Minister, it's been three years since the State Auditor Act was passed. The state auditor almost doesn't exist in this country. There has been a year since the state auditor, and there are two or three in one office, delivered his Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly for consent, and within a year the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditor had no place to be presented to the MPs and to be considered as such by the National Assembly and to give possible consent. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to state auditors, in the surrounding countries, and especially in the countries of Europe, state auditors have a separate building, state auditors have security, state auditors have such a system of notice that one state auditor cannot contact another state auditor in another office; he can, but he has to report that he contacted a colleague in another office. Every state auditor who works as a state auditor, who is licensed, works in a separate room. Physical security has police, but these people as state auditors are primarily materially rewarded. With us, the state auditor has been paid, is it true, Madam Minister, that the state auditor has 93,000 dinars in our possession, and that this mobster, who has no one to control, has taken 460,000,000 from the back and from the pocket of slave workers? Do you expect the state auditor to be invulnerable, that there will be no corruption? You're wrong, you're wrong about politics. The State Auditor must be paid. Under the Systematisation Regulation 129 state auditors are provided for in the Republic of Serbia. You offered them two or three rooms at the railway station, where the drugstores are gathering. Do you think it's an institution, where it's impossible to do these jobs? What has the government decided? They don't need an auditor. Now let's give them an office in the former Federal Assembly and put them there, and let them gather there and see what they do. Madam Minister, I'm asking you to report to the state auditor back three years, the budget inspection report, to see what's done, whether someone's working or not. You can't have that kind of attitude towards a state auditor. Then we won't have this situation around public enterprises, we won't have that kind of pay, we won't have these purchases, just like you guys are suggesting that parliament adopt. Have you seen that you have been given the right to write a new law in the form of a sublegal act that will be released by international organisations and not subject to this law? That's why we have this condition that we don't have a law on foreign NGOs. To give the minister the right to decide, it should be decided by parliament. There's no other way. The biggest problem is that ministers are given and passed from law to law, from politics to politics, from government to government, that they themselves regulate our country's legal system by sublaw. There's a crime going on. The minister in that sometimes with intent, sometimes without intent, knows how to do damage to workers or citizens. The Minister of Finance is also responsible for the work of the budgetary inspection. (President: 15 minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10036	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Natasa Jovanovic submitted a letter to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10037	I'm convinced, Madam Minister, that a colleague puts his objections to the law because he's a good economist and he knows when something's wrong. But what a man will have to vote in line with the party's views, even if it is to the detriment of Serbian citizens. It's not good, but it is. This law on public procurement, not only this one, but otherwise this subject of public procurement, is very inspiring for the MPs. It is also a topic discussed in the media, discussed by Serbian citizens. Well, my colleague Jojic had just raised the question of the state auditor and I mentioned it in the first report and it was really scary, there are four or five people sitting in one office, they say they have no working conditions, they don't know what they are there or what they should be doing. The state formed them so that we could say -- well, we have this institution. And the fact that nothing works, that we've been calling here for days for the state auditor to deal with the RIK report, it doesn't touch anyone's mind. The fact that without public procurement can be obtained, which in normal people has no price, here without public procurement are bought and MPs, the laws are passed, there is something going on here that is invisible in the normal world, but what you are going to, I guess, is the price of some character, some immoral personality, etc. It simply has to be connected to this law. This is an addition to what counterpart Ljubisa Petkovic said when he reported to the Rules of Procedure, when he mentioned the decision of the UN UN Security Council, that Vojislav Seselj no longer allows communication with legal advisers, namely the delivery of confidential documents between him and his legal advisers, Zoran Krasic and Slavko Jerkovic. It's not even the victory of those who sold out for money from the West, it's not the victory of the UN tribunal, it's another of the moral victories of Vojislav Seselj. He is a man who adheres to his principles, who defends Serbia and Serbia's national interests there and doesn't ask how personally it will cost him. Some others asked -- how much would it cost to bring out some fake stenograms, so that what happened would happen, that Vojislav Seselj could no longer communicate with his legal advisers. But he'll manage. Thank God, there's enough data in his head, enough facts, and there are enough good witnesses, who are also going there to tell the truth. Although many of them, or all of them so far, except for the two witnesses of the court, the rest were all witnesses of the indictment, but Vojislav Seselj in a cross-examination all stated that, telling the truth, in a certain way, they were witnesses of the defense. That is the problem of The Hague tribunal and those who have promised the UN tribunal much more, and not only the UN tribunal, but others who want evil to Serbia and the Serb people. Today, cross-examination has been completed, Vojislav Seselj has completed a cross-examination of witnesses of the court council, Mr Jovan Glamocanin, and will be interesting tonight from 22:00 p.m., when the delayed transfer begins, you will see, respected citizens of Serbia, how much it costs in Serbia, as the cheek, because morals and how immoral people behave. Of course, Mr. Glamochan is a moral man and he brought it all out this morning. I said this law is very inspiring because it can really connect with any crime that happens in Serbia. Remind me, my colleague Jojic, when he mentioned the state auditor, along the way said the budget inspection, Mrs Dragutinovic, just to take advantage of the opportunity you're here, because I think it's been ten days since we insisted that the budgetary inspection and UBPOK visit the airport in Belgrade, let's see how Bojan Kristo spent state money. We will not allow this story to end, the people were disgusted, the citizens of Serbia were horrified for three or four days, the newspaper said that Bojan Kristo paid himself 11500 euros a month. He left a man, and on the cost of the airport, he left Serbia, and in the government, he got a little mixed up with Dinkic, who's going to fly in instead. And it lay down again, thanks to some money and again it should be shaking worse, a mouse was born. Mrs Dragutinovic, you will have to today, and as far as tomorrow you will tell us if it was a budget financial inspection at Belgrade Airport, what did she do, it's been enough days, and to inform us about what was really going on at Belgrade Airport, who's going to be responsible for so much kidnapped money from this people? Which, according to the Prime Minister, in 2009, will not live better, and already lives badly enough to really ask the question of how Serbian citizens will survive these economic coups, this social misery, what some of your ministry colleagues say -- that the economic crisis in Europe, that's great for Serbia, will now rush foreign investors into Serbia to invest here. Some say, above all, the prime minister, we wait when there is a debate on the budget, but certainly there are many questions and we will certainly ask them then, and when we talk about the proposal to mistrust the government of the Republic of Serbia, but to this question, Mrs Dragutinovic, you must really answer us urgently. You can't find an excuse and don't make us do it again and we from this place do it. If you want us to talk about public procurement, then let us know what happened to the financial inspection at Belgrade Airport, did Mladja convince you, how some newspapers wrote, that there is no way anyone would go to control the crime of Bojan Krishte and that of his previous Nedeljkovic, or did you still manage to fight for what you swore in front of this National Assembly. Why do I mention both the oath and the interests of Serbia? Because Article 11, above which is the title - The principle of equality of the bidder, in its fourth position provides that the contracting authority cannot refuse offers only because the bidder has its head office in a country with which the Republic of Serbia has not concluded an agreement on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders, if there is a situation in fact set by the ministry of economic relations with abroad. Here we are at Junior's, here we are with abuse. We have proposed a nice amendment to write instead of this text that the client must reject offers offered by a bidder based in a country with which the Republic of Serbia has not concluded an agreement on equal treatment between domestic and foreign bidders. This amendment and this stance, Mrs Dragutinovic, protects the interests of Serbian citizens, protects the national interests of the Serbian state, both economic and political national interests. The government, as well as the government in all normal countries, should have a superior task and aim to protect its country's legal and economic entities, not countries that still ruled them in 2000, with a bunch of money allocated only to members of the government, and not to the citizens of Serbia. It is obvious that you continue to repay these laws to those who brought you into power, Mrs Dragutinovic, because you say that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the absence of a concluded contract on equal treatment of domestic and foreign bidders cannot be a reason to reject the offer of a foreign bidder, if, despite the absence of a contract, there is a factual reciprocity, that is, a domestic enterprise as a bidder in a public procurement procedure in a foreign country is treated as a business of that state. You leave this to be claimed by the Minister of Economic Relations with us abroad. Where did we achieve reciprocity, Mrs Dragutinović? Are we perhaps with Slovenia, Croatia, where Serbia's bidders have the same treatment as the bidders from their countries? You're giving priority here, and this law confirms it. Yesterday, Jojic received five kilos of material from the government of the Republic of Serbia, answering his questions on several occasions, as the Serbian country, i.e. agricultural land in Serbia, and companies, are being sold to Croatian firms, Slovenian firms, and Serbian firms have no opportunity to enter Slovenia, to enter Croatia. It is the same with public procurement, you have opened a wide door here for both Croatians and Slovenians, and they do not allow us to enter their market. Of course, we have a problem that is also under obligation to resolve the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a problem that we, except for agricultural products, have nothing to take out. You destroyed everything, gentlemen of the DOS, nothing works in Serbia anymore, no economy, no industrial production. The only thing we can offer is agricultural products, and you are also in this area making such laws, which are not specifically related to it, but leave the possibility, imagine, that the Minister of Economic Relations with abroad, and it stands in the law, that he is guaranteed to say -- it doesn't matter that we don't have a reciprocity agreement with Croatia, with Slovenia, I guarantee that we have a pass there and that we can offer our products there, that in the context of public procurement we have a priority as they have here in Serbia. So, Mrs Dragutinovic, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you have sworn before this Parliament, you are obliged to take care of the interests of the Serbian state, the interests of Serbian citizens, as I said, of political and economic interests. If you owe something to those who brought you into power, then pay it from the money you got, five million, or a billion marks for Slobodan Milosevic's head, five million euros for Radovan Karadzic's head. There was, without public procurement, a lot of what you sold and a lot of what you bought, and what should not have been the subject of trade, Mrs Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10038	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is really hard to talk about amendments after this latest tribunal decision in The Hague. As you are probably familiar with, you have been introduced to our colleagues, the Tribunal in The Hague has made a oral decision to deny further rights to legal advisers who contributed most to the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj, Mr Krasic and Mr Slavko Jerkovic. On many occasions, I have said that the rights of defence to the UN tribunal in The Hague are being denied, while the prosecution has all the possibilities provided by certain rules and something else that cannot be swept under the rules. I was also talking about the financial support the UN tribunal has here in The Hague, so I will take advantage of the opportunity the minister is present to say that the tribunal in The Hague i.e. The prosecution as the court's authority has absolute support for this state. Maximum funds are being allocated, taken from Serbian citizens to assist The Hague tribunal, while the same rights are being denied defence. As you know, according to the most important conventions on human rights, not to list them here, the United Nations, the European Union, etc., and even our Constitution, i.e. The law requires that there be equality of arms in each process, one rule guaranteeing that the charge and the defence have equal rights. You yourself have provided us with information relating to the financing of the Office for Co-operation with the Tribunal in The Hague, where, among other things, you have stated that the tribunal's prosecution in The Hague has full and direct access to all state archives in the Republic of Serbia. So, there's wider powers than M.P. and B.I.A. The defense doesn't have that option. You also gave information, the Serbian government, that 97% of the prosecution's request was processed, while when it comes to defence over 50% was not processed. We'll wait for a written decision and see what further reaction it will be. As regards the very proposal for a law on public procurement, one amendment to Article 17 has been tabled, where it is proposed that the word "started" is replaced by "executed". The government has given one reason why it does not accept the amendment. In short, let me say what our motives were. As you know, Article 17. Proposal for a law on public procurement, heading 7. Currency, item 1: "Values in competitive documentation and in the offer are shown in dinars", is not disputed. Item 2: ''The orderer may allow the bidder to make the price in an offer in one foreign currency, and in that case, in the competitive documentation, it will indicate that a corresponding average exchange rate of the National Bank of Serbia will be used for the calculation of the dinars on the day on which the opening of the bids is started. ''' The explanation of the public procurement bill shows the following text, we can read: ''The client can allow bidders to show values in foreign currency, which must be the same for all bidders, in which case, in the competitive documentation, it will indicate that the corresponding average exchange rate of the National Bank of Serbia will be used for the calculation of the bids submitted. '' Both texts were written by the representatives of the government, but we see the difference, because in the position of Article 17, Article 17 is stated in the part of the sentence - the day on which the opening of the offer was started, and in an explanation - on the day of the opening of the bids. As for our thesis that we want to defend this amendment, we have suggested that Article 17, paragraph 2, the word "started", as I said, be replaced by the word "executed". The question arises as to why the proposer in Article 17, paragraph 2, why he prescribed - on the day on which the opening of bids was launched, and in the light of the proposal for a law on public procurement, this member explained in words - on the day of the opening of the offer. So far, it has occurred in practice that the contracting authority in the presence of the tenderer or authorised representatives shall open the tenders received at the pre-determined place, date and time. Therefore, the whole opening and review process of the tenders received ends during one day, within one working time. Does the legislator, by such a formulation as I have read, have legal norms in Article 17(2), so on the day on which the opening of the offer was launched, intend to open the tenders made in foreign currency for two or more days in the future? If there is such an intention, the question arises why, of course, are these differences in course, since it is about foreign currency. With our amendment, we want to motivate participants to finish everything in one day. That's obvious. It is obvious that the purpose of Article 17(2) is to ensure that prices from the tenders submitted are comparable. However, where guarantees are made that by the next day, when other offers will continue to open, someone will not change the price from the offer left unopened, meaning in a closed envelope. These are already problems concerning corruption in public procurement. I must draw attention to the fact that one of the most important conditions for the public procurement process is to have a fair opening of bids at a specific time, in a certain place and in the presence of all the participants of the tender or their representatives. It takes a public opening of bids, where anyone interested can hear who submitted all the offers and what the prices are. This is exactly the kind of method that reduces the risk of classified information and official secrets being passed on to one side, through some connection, that an offer may not be considered, that offers may change or otherwise be manipulated by the procedure itself. The practice in some countries that offers are opened by a commission officially appointed by the customer, as you know, but without the presence of the bidders, is not good, especially if we consider the fact that in the public the dominant opinion of which the contracting authorities are often subject to corruption. On the other hand, the tendering of the tenderer is only possible if the covertness of the tenders arrived is maintained until the deadline set for their opening. A simple example of corruption and the possibility of pre-determining the result of the tender is that the contracting authority violates this important rule by simply opening bids before the deadline for their submission expires and informing the presented prices to a supplier, in order to make it the least possible. This is another reason why opening offers should not last longer than for example one day, but that it should all end very quickly. This mechanism of corruption and crime works perfectly unless all bidders are allowed to attend the opening of bids. I'd like to remind you that the widest possibility of financing a tender exists at the stage of assessing the arrival of bids. For example, members of the commission can devastate a whole series of new conditions and criteria for deciding on the best offer. They can also use arbitration procedures to apply these criteria in a way that would provide a particular person, which they support, to win. In this unholy work, they often find it helpful not to be sufficiently specific in the senses of the law. Here all concepts in the law must be precise and valid regulations, as well as the prescribed conditions for winning the best bidder. With this in mind, the simplest method of corruption in international, say, public procurement is a commission paid to a local representative, who needs to realise the job. Large corporations, operating in small countries or developing countries, are often ready to give a substantial fee, in order to successfully bring their jobs to an end. It's unorthodoxly masking commission data as something else and necessarily with a sign of secrecy or confidentiality. Of course, free hands or independence in operation allow the local representative to keep part of the commission for himself, according to the realisation of the job. It is interesting to remind ourselves that, let's just say, American financiers have been conditioned by Serbian NGOs, in their projects envisioned by official projects, we have it on paper, that somewhere up to 60% of their assistance to NGOs ends up in private pockets, that it is waste on corruption, but that the victim is also worth it to achieve their interests in Serbia. Asking questions is a commission in international supply of goods and services to make it transparent and who doesn't? As you can see, the possibility of corruption and crime, in public procurement, is almost unlimited. That is why no concept in the law must remain imprecise or unexplained. In this law, there should be no holes, because corruption and crime will find their way through the slightest crack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10040	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10041	I think Jojic reported after the amendment, and I responded on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have already talked about this scandalous decision by The Hague tribunal, or the Search Council, which is under way in the case of our President Vojislav Seselj, but I would like to say that Vojislav Seselj has been successfully fighting the UN tribunal for almost six years now and will certainly fight in the interests of all Serbian citizens and in the Serbian national interest. We of his team of experts all those years are trying to, as far as possible, break into the public, or inform the public of what is actually going on there. Of course, it is a scandalous decision that Vojislav Seselj is thus being violated by human rights which makes it impossible for his legal associates to communicate with him and that they can exchange confidential documents, but this is because the government in Serbia is condescending when it comes to The Hague tribunal. I've asked the ministers several times, and before Mr. Jocic, and now Mr. Dacic, and I've received similar answers, and the question concerns what's going on in the office of Jevrem Grujic, where witnesses are being processed, where witnesses of the defense are trying to blackmail, threats and false promises, who knows all the ways, turned into witnesses of the charges. The answer I received from Minister Dacic, he says, explains to me that Article 10 is foreseen, talks about the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, that representatives of the International Criminal Tribunal, says, must not abuse their powers, and that they must not act against the standards of international law and against the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. We argue that they are doing so against the standards of international law and against the laws of the Republic of Serbia, we have been arguing for six years, and then we get such an unmistakable response that the Ministry of the Interior does not have the knowledge that the representatives of the International Criminal Tribunal are conducting torture over the persons with whom they are holding talks in the rooms in Jevrem Grujic, I apologize for the time. And we do several scientific gatherings, Vojislav Seselj publish books, we talk in every place, wherever we're allowed in public, about that happening and instead of someone examining what's going on, the Ministry is notifying us that there's no knowledge. I'm sorry, here, in fact, I'm going to use this time planned for the amendment, if it's no problem, that I don't have to go back and finish this sentence because it's very important, my colleague Jojic won't be angry. May I, Mrs. Comic? So, instead of checking what we're saying, the Ministry is sending us some answers, as if we're little children, now as I've got this paper and I'm gonna be happy, here's the three, first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Home Secretary. So we insist that the state of Serbia takes care and takes care of its citizens, of every citizen. According to Mr Ivica Dacic, there is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't ask people, Mark Kraljević, to answer this question. I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then the Prime Minister present, and he now directs me, and here I am now asking again, I am now asking the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal to inform me of everything I asked at a session held on 20 October 2008. Of course, it does not occur to me to repeat this now, you will have to find it and deliver it to these two institutions, to see if there is anyone in Serbia who takes care of the interests of its citizens, who takes care of the protection of the human rights of Serbian citizens, to see if there is anyone who will check out what has been done and is doing at 11 Jevrem Grujic Street in Belgrade, in which way they are most brutally harassed, insulted, humiliated, trying to bribe, etc., people who want to be witnesses to the defence case of Vojislav Seselj. That's why The Hague tribunal is in chaos, because Vojislav Seselj has defeated all witnesses who have emerged as witnesses to the indictment. Tonight, it will be very interesting for Serbian citizens to see the witness, John Glamocani, called on to testify there as a witness to the court, although he insisted that he be a witness to the defence of Vojislav Seselj. You will hear, Serbian citizens, who took the money, how much money was taken, why the Serbian Radical Party tried to break up, but neither did it, nor will it succeed, nor will the UN tribunal succeed in defeating Vojislav Seselj, because Vojislav Seselj, as promised, will tear up The Hague tribunal, has done so already. All they have to do is formally admit it, not to violate human rights in this way that they do not allow him to communicate with legal advisers, so in his head he has so many files scanned, so much data that he can translate 150 more of their witnesses over water and beat them with legal knowledge, facts, courage, heroic behavior, the heart and the idea of a man who is willing and his life, and he has shown that he is sacrificing for Serbia and Serbia's national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10042	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, Parliament MP Dejan Mirovic has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the amendment submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, in any case this amendment should be accepted, although the government does not accept this amendment. However, when an in-depth analysis of this proposed member is carried out in this law, you will see that there are a number of options which will, in any case, be an obstacle to the proper application of this provision in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was talking about the state auditor earlier, I want to draw your attention again and remind you, I believe there are some MPs who may have been able to get acquainted with this institution in other countries. In Norway, you have such a case that this is a special institution that is dislocated from other bodies and other legal entities. This means that they have a special building, especially police security, that they have vehicles, that they have decent salaries and that, in any case, these people will not be exposed to corruption or taking bribes. I mentioned that every auditor has his own office. Can't an auditor go into another office without a card, it's registered that he's been in another fellow auditor's office for so many hours that day. Why? It's not an accident, it's necessary for the sake of influence and pressure on state auditors. We have the State Auditor Act, but we don't have state auditors. That's the problem. According to the rules of procedure and the systematicisation of jobs in this institution, 129 auditors should work. Ladies and gentlemen, the control of 8,300 beneficiaries of the budget should be carried out, as well as how they are used and spent on the budget. The related system has three times as many as these 8,300 budget users. The State Auditor Act was passed three years ago. Again, state auditors have no working conditions. In the Federation Palace, the former SIV, it's where it's moved in and what it's supposed to be and what it's not supposed to be. Last year I was in my former Federal Justice Minister's office and I saw a clerk sitting there, and that cabinet was about 50-60 m2, and yesterday I had a chance to visit the former Federal Assembly, where the state auditors were sitting, because I was motivated by the last night on a television show, where the state auditor explained and gave answers to the questions asked by journalists about how this auditory house works. Now the question is: if we passed the law three years ago, why not apply that law? If someone has applied this law, give evidence of this, that we know whether the state auditors have entered that institution, which they are legally authorised to control, how and how budget funds are used? Three people can't control 8,300 budget users and three other times as many connected users. In one room, I found three or four people sitting around trying to do something. But that's not possible. First, they have no conditions, secondly, the Assembly did not put their Rules of Procedure on the agenda, and they have to work on the rules of procedure, the Assembly must give consent to their rules of procedure and, finally, Mrs. Dragutinović, you are responsible at this time and have an obligation to find a special building. There are buildings and former federal authorities a very large number in Belgrade. You have the opportunity to place them in the former Federation Palace and provide them with one floor, not to have officials sitting there who have no reason at all to sit in such an institution as that institution. And to provide 120 auditors, as scheduled. State auditors are according to the Constitution, constitutional category. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a state auditor in Article 96. What are her rights and obligations? The state audit institution is the highest state body to audit public funds in the Republic of Serbia. In three years' time, does he have any evidence that these people are and that this institution is starting to work, and what are her results? It is said to be independent and subject to supervision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to which it corresponds. Let's call that auditor, a man who's lonely there, fights as much as he can, asks for the help of the government, let him come to the National Assembly and inform the MPs, and be informed to the public, so that 25 ministries and 111 republican authorities will not be out of control. So we have 25 ministries and 111 bodies, and we have 17 administrations, 14 agencies, 11 funds, 5 directorates, 9 offices, 6 services, four inspectorates, three offices, three councils. Let's not talk about how many ministers the minister has and whether our ministries are too bulky. There are no fewer countries in the world, and there are so many ministries and, individually, so many ministries are overbooked and overcrowded. It's the only case in Serbia. That's what I'm responsible for. Compare 2000 with today's day, and see how many officials worked in which ministry, how many advisors, how many deputies and assistants there were, and you'll come to the conclusion that we're a civil state. When it comes to hiring someone, the position employs right in the authorities of the administration. Why isn't he hiring in business, in companies? No, companies have stopped working, many have been destroyed, many have been bombed by our enemies. Secondly, many companies have taken profits and white-world thugs who have concluded contracts as collective contracts, made commitments, the Privatisation Agency, earlier, the Ministry of Privatisation sold the people's property. What's going on? They resell the property, the workers fired, and the workers stayed on the street, the poor stayed on the street. The Azotara Panchevo case, the first azotar in the former SFRY. The co-owners came, bought Azotara, and what did we experience? They bought Pancheva Azotaru, which produced cheaper fertilizer than imports, but the owner changed his mind, imports of fertilizer, stopped working, closed down the factory, demonstrated a new factory that workers and the state made by Karbamid, bought Azotar for 13 million, "Carbamid" new, which was part of the Azotara at the time of the contract, sold for 32m euros. The privatisation agency has concluded a very harmful contract again and has decided to put out of the 32m payments in Azotar 10m euros and those 23 to put in the pocket. Guys, this isn't in the normal state. Someone needs to answer for that. What else is uglier? The privatisation agency postpones the investment of those 10 million and says, "In three years, you will pay 300,000 euros in the Azotare fund. "These are big and serious problems. That we have control now, that someone enters the Privatisation Agency, determines whether he has placed some kind of paraphras and signed on a decision like this, harmful to the workers, and last Friday 650 was fired from Azotara, as I learned. The problem is serious, the state's problem, the state needs to see what it's going to do with these families. This isn't just Azotara. I spoke when it came to Panchevo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that many of you know this city. Panchevo had the first brewery, the first glass maker, the first azotar, the first refinery, the first petrochemicals, the first lamp factory, now there's nothing. It's a dead town. It's a dead town now. So 30,000 people are out of work, that's terrible. There's no control. Privatisation is the biggest robbery in the country. Gentlemen, you come from the environments where you live, like I do living in Pancheva, and you know how that people breathe and you know what pains and problems they have. One agency or the Ministry of Privatisation can't be out of control. Is that the state auditor, is that the budget inspection has gone and passed a little leg to go to Capca, Pancheva, Užica, Valjeva, Subotica, Novi Sad and determines the situation, and whoever is responsible has broken the law, has allowed thieves to reach the national property, immediately in custody, immediately in prison without delay and to return the property. The one that took 460 million, please, the bankruptcy manager, I repeat, 460 million was taken from workers from the Belgrade Stock Houses Mass. People, I can't figure this out, I own that decision, a solution where the Trade Court in Belgrade has determined compensation, i.e. A reward. This is no good, people. Just take the budget that's coming up on the agenda these days. You'll see how much resources are allocated to help agriculture. It's a shame. It's for every criticism. That's absolutely unacceptable. He says we're fucking with this budget, who says we're cutting the budget? Reduce administration and resources, do not make sure that we can assure ourselves here, and secondly, we falsely assure our citizens that the government, due to the global crisis, is going to take every step to establish a better well-being in Serbia. We won't be the ones to starve, if we starved as much as we did, and we won't starve in the future worse than many are starving. No, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to public procurement, it's a circus, it's a crime. Gentlemen Democrats, if you put yourself in a role now to be budgetary inspectors, there is no local office, no veterinary station where you wouldn't find organized and serious crime. I'm telling you the truth. How can it happen, work for a part of the road, for the street... (President: Time. I'll end up with a basic contract of 350,000 and an annex of 550 million dinars. That's where there's no control, where there's no mouse wheel of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10044	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mr. Lightning want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10045	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, due to a shameful decision by The Hague tribunal, which prohibits the advisers of Dr Vojislav Seselj, Mr Krasic and Mr Jerkovic from having access to his case, the enemies of Dr Vojislav Seselj are today exulting. The enemies exult even though they know that he went there not to defend himself, but to defend the interests of the Serb people, to defend the interests of the Serb people from those who want to attach to him a larger anthem that it is a genocidal people. The ironing should know that that wheel of history is immeasurable and that it is indeed turning on one of its unfathomable legality and precision. He turns around so that the one who's in the mud today, there he is tomorrow in the sun, and the one who thinks he'll never be there, there he is tomorrow in the mud. We'll see about that. Madam Minister, this amendment concerns the negotiation procedure without publishing a public call. Article 24. point 5) states - in the case of additional delivery of goods from the original supplier intended for a partial replacement of products, materials or installations, which, due to the change of suppliers, would oblige the contracting authority to obtain material which has different technical characteristics, which would cause disproportionately large technical difficulties in business and maintenance, the total value of all additional supplies of goods cannot be greater than 25% of the total value of the original contract. The amendment to this article says that a decimal is added and that after these words, "this value cannot be greater than 25% of the total value of the original contract" is added - up to 20 million dinars, 15% of the total value of the originally concluded contract of 20 to 50 million dinars, 10% of the total value of the originally concluded contract of 50 to 100 million dinars, or 5% of the total value of the original contract of over 100 million dinars. In simple terms, point 5) is determined that the limit for additional delivery of goods is not more than 25% of the total value of the original, but no matter what the value of the previous purchase was. For example, if the original purchase value was 200 million extra deliveries it could go to 50 million. What's the amendment asking for? In order to limit the value of the second or additional purchases according to the monetary value of the original purchase. So, for example, if the original purchase was 20 million, the value of the second purchase would be 25%, so five million. If the original purchase was 50 million worth of the second purchase is 15%. If the original purchase was 100 million, the value of the second purchase would be 10% and if over 100 million were the value of the second purchase would be 5%. If the situation is accepted, as provided for by the proposal of this Member of the Law, so Article 24 point 5), that for all additional purchases the percentage is unique and that it is 25% regardless of the value of the original purchase, this really gives a much greater possibility of abuse. If it's the original purchase, for example. 300 million times 25%, extra procurement without public advertising could be 75 million dinars. This really provides a great opportunity for every possible abuse. In reasons for not accepting the proposal, the amendment would be contrary to the EU directive. Two, that would cause problems in law enforcement. I'll take a brief look at both of these situations. So the amendment would be contrary to the EU directive. Indeed, once the word of the EU directive is heard, it associates us with that environment that we talked about and about the draft law in the field of justice, which is that these laws are in some way imposed on you. You impose them on MPs of the Assembly, and when you adopt them and when you adopt these laws, they will be imposed on Serbian citizens as a bad solution. That's what it looks like with this law and you're admitting it to this. Secondly, I really don't understand why the application of this amendment would be a problem when clearly and decidently determining percentages limiting additional procurement, thus reducing the possibility of any abuse in public procurement without advertising. We witness indeed the great abuses that occur in public procurement. Here are some examples. During the previous year, the Board of Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities obtained a June meat for 350 dinars per kilogram, and KBC Zveztar paid 410 dinars as well. The next example - pigmeat, a children's institution from Sremska Kamenica, paid 210 dinars per kilogram in the same year, and a preschool institution from Novi Sad 300 dinars per kilogram. The coloring of the hospitals in Leskovac was paid 95 dinars per metre square, and for the same job, the Clinical Center in Nis paid 140 dinars per square metre. These are official data and they show the difference in these purchases, so how much is the possibility of abuse in each of these individual purchases. The epilogue of this kind of procurement is, for example, that in Novi Sad children were given 40% less meat than they could have had that done in a different way. So for the same percentage someone could manipulate, they could put themselves in their pocket or make it possible for someone else, which is just the same for these kids, they lost a piece of their meal. Here all we have to do is ask a simple and logical question - in our own purchases, in our private procurement whether we are doing as we are getting in these cases that I have raised, and thousands and thousands of such cases are across Serbia. Is this how we get it when we make our purchases with our own money, not our own? When we go into the butcher shop and see that there's 400 dinar meat, so we walk to the other one, and we see that it's 310, where are we going to buy it? Clearly, a logical conclusion is drawn from this. Anyone who buys their money knows this answer doesn't need to talk to him. If we know that the value of public procurement in Serbia is about two billion euros a year and that the average price difference for individual purchases is about 15%, it turns out that, based on public procurement for one year, the potential for abuse is 300m euros, so is the possibility of saving. Serbian police should soon, following the discovery of illegal public procurement in their ranks, such is at least an announcement from the police, to examine and review some public procurements in other large public enterprises, customs administration or in Serbia's Oil Industry. The Law on Public Procurement has not been applied in Serbia's Oil Industry for three years. If that's true, they'll probably find out. There are some indications that there is an annual value of public procurement of around 100m euros. Now you see the possibility of abuse there. In European countries, the participation of public procurement from gross domestic products is about 15%. If we took that percentage in Serbia, if we saved only 10% of the purchase price, there would be no tents across the street from the presidency, workers would not come to protest their earnings, which they gained with a hard and bloody sweat, which have not yet been paid to them, there would not be hundreds of other cases similar to these cases, but who knows whether they are in the interest at all and whether they care about these savings. If, for example, it is a directive not to reach them, then it will not come and it is clear. The amendment therefore proposes to introduce at least a little order and control into the part of the public procurement done without advertising. If it is the government and if it is your desire to do so, then you will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10046	Thank you. Mr. Marash by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10047	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, as far as we have received the information, and I have now confirmed with the President of the Privatisation Committee, a copy of the proposal for a contract offered by the Serbian side to the Russian side regarding the oil and gas agreement. However, it is a very large document and would be necessary to copy as soon as possible. I hear from the president of the Committee, who, of course, came to the meeting in this sense that all the members of the Committee, and the Finance Committee, get one copy each, however, I think it is necessary that each head of the parliamentary group should receive one copy in order to get acquainted with this. Also, I am interested in whether tomorrow will be a session of the Privatisation Committee and the Committee on Industry, to which Minister Skundric and Minister Dinkic will come, who have brought confusion among MPs and citizens, as each of them has taken out of his sight what is happening in the negotiations on the oil and gas agreement. I ask you, Mr President, to inform the Members of Parliament now as far as it has arrived, or whether a united session of these two committees will be scheduled to attend tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10048	As I said yesterday, I launched an initiative, the board presidents agreed and I ask the president of one of the committees who is here to take it to where they are. Of course it'll be multiplied material. Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10049	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the honourable MPs, we agreed yesterday, on the basis of a letter from the President of the Assembly with the President of the Committee on Industry, who is absent, to prepare material and to divide all members of the Committee on Industry and the Privatisation Committee. We'll also provide material for all the heads of Parliament. Please don't throw yourself away while I'm talking. Also, we agreed with the president of the Industry Committee to hold a meeting Tuesday, at 13.00 hours, these two committees, after a cabinet meeting and a deal with ministers. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10050	Thank you. Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10051	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate what Mr Nikolic said, and I believe that there is a good will to organise these two committees and to have ministers come to these two committees so that we can find out the full truth about these negotiations. We agree that this committee can be moved by Tuesday, if we have a firm promise that both ministers will come to the scheduled committee. I just wanted three more words. I ask that only copying for the heads of the parliamentary groups be of first place, for the simple reason that we can get to know each other as soon as possible, is a very large material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10052	Thank you. There's no problem with the materials being prepared. I had contact with Mr. Skundric, but now that we know the term we will also contact Mr. Dinkic, I believe there will be no problem, so during the day you will have definitive information. Mr. Zivanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10053	I'm just going to point out one big problem, because these people who are damaged by this company, to call her Masterovic, where they could only seek justice here in the Assembly through their representative, the MP, me, didn't yesterday allow me to finish what was very important, which is -- in what way could you pay off, for two years looking for justice for what they fought for and tortured by their great work, so that you could charge for the drowned pigs from this company? In the end, I have to say about this speaker, when I was talking about these problems, I said that an audit institution that probably came back to life three or four years ago, only came to life on paper, and that's what my party colleague Petar Jojic said well. She didn't find her implementation in the budget inspection system either, at the state level, so probably not at the local level. I believe she won't be alive for a long time because you have to cover up your thieving tracks. What's very important, regarding public procurement, are the stock reserves. The State purchases certain products for its stock reserves, especially agricultural products from peasants, at one price, and when the time comes for it to profit, then it can export those goods at a different price. As you can see, the state doesn't care for people at any time, about those who give their sweat and their efforts for what we are sitting here today, but unfortunately, we are discussing their fate, about their work, about what the state should have discussed a long time ago. You see well what this trend was in the very course of this privatisation. Yesterday, your colleague from Capca said how many investments were in Capco. They were investments. It wouldn't be good if I didn't say it, I'd say it, but they were investments in behaton records, in sidewalks, in the city's order and beauty, not in seeking certain investments to ensure the future of citizens. The future of citizens is in factories, in businesses, but you've ruined all that. This criminal privatisation that took place throughout Serbia and where individuals are usually praised that it was best done, but that privatisation, unfortunately, was most criminally done right in the Municipality of Sabac, where there was a large economy, as well as in the municipality of Panchevo, as my colleague Pera said, was destroyed by a large chemical complex, it is the Chemical Industry Zorca from Capca, which employs 12,000 workers. The factory I worked at had over two and a half thousand employees, and today it's 63. I'm asking you -- where is that effect... (President: Time. ) production cycle work, based on which you can boast that you have done these eight years. If you had regenerated all of this, and if you had sold it and it was criminal privatisation, but if it had been done by workers, that is, that factories serve their purposes, what they've been for so far, then I would say to this speaker, that's your success... (President: Time. Your eight-year reign. I'm done. Unfortunately, there is no justice in this country, in Serbia. It's probably destroyed by coming in, take a good look, finish, these books speak well of your crime, but what I have to say... (President: Please bring the end. The dogs or dogs bark, but the caravans pass by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10054	We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. Then we'll discuss Mrs. Marine Toman's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10056	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment is similar to that of counterpart Munjic, only he refers to services and works. In Article 24. The draft law on public procurement was laid down by the legislator in which all cases the contracting authority may carry out a negotiation procedure for public procurement without publication of a public call. Thus, in point 7(1), point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 1 provides that ''in the case of additional services or works not included in the original project or first procurement, which have become necessary for the execution of the public procurement contract due to unforeseeable circumstances, provided that the contract is concluded with the original service provider, i.e. the contractor and that the total value of all additional services or works is not greater than 25% of the total value of the original contract. ''The SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to this article, after saying "that the total value of all additional services or works is not greater than 25% of the total value of the originally concluded contract," added "up to 20 million dinars, 15% of the total value of the originally concluded contract from 20 million dinars to 50 million dinars, 10% of the total value of the originally concluded contract from 50 million to 100 million dinars, or 5% of the total value of the original contract over 100 million dinars. ''The Serbian government has rejected this amendment with a rather ghastly and confusing explanation. Thus, in his explanation, as a reason why he does not accept the amendment, the government says it is contrary to the EU directive. That's where the further argument for the government ends. However, if the government was managed by the EU directive, then the government's solution is not in the same line with the EU directive. So the government's solution is contrary to this directive. In fact, in 2004, the European Parliament and the EU adopted a Directive on the coordination of the procedure for the award of public procurement contracts. Thus, Article 31 of this Directive regulates situations in which the use of the guessing procedure is justified without prior publication. According to this solution, all additional works and services can be agreed in the guessing procedure, therefore, without the tendering of a new tender, with the value of all additional works and services cannot be greater than 50% of the value of the underlying contract. Therefore, this clears that the solution in this bill is not in line with the EU directive anyway, but the Government does not accept this amendment with an obvious replacement of thesis. However, I must point out that, while this law was held in public debate in the form of a draft, its authors have proposed that contracting authorities may conduct a negotiated procedure for public procurement without making a public call for the subsequent provision of services or for the execution of works up to as much as 50% of the total value of the initial contract. Clearly, there was an intention to avoid facing the reality and corruption of huge proportions, which almost all basic contract annexes provide. The solution was changed with the intervention of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which managed to convince lawmakers to remain in force for the current 25% solution. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to prevent or at least to some extent limit the current corruption behaviour and the unintended and unlawful spending of budget funds through virtual works and services that are negotiated through the invented one or more basic contract annexes. Anyone who is familiar with the current procedure of public procurement procedures in Serbia, i.e. anyone who directly or indirectly participates in the procedure, i.e. the public procurement process, knows that corruption in public procurement is most reflected in most cases through invented ex-post or better said additional works and services, which were not the subject of the basic contract. Although almost all the experiences that have been related to this provision of the law testify that in this way the easiest, fastest and most perfiduous budget has been robbed, the government leaves the same solution in this bill, despite the practice that the annex contracts have been misused. So we know that there is an obvious problem, but nothing is done to solve this problem, or to stop corruption. In order not to replace the thesis, the SRS is not against annexes, especially because we know that they are necessary in some cases, especially when it comes to construction works. We don't dispute them. To clarify our intentions. The SRS parliamentary group in making amendments to this law had to take care of some of its provisions and their application in practice, i.e. to what extent they leave room for corruption and malfeasance. This is why some of our proposed solutions may be restrictive in some way, but in consultation with those who practice public procurement we have come to the conclusion that they are necessary, because we have to face the reality that the existing law and how it has violated and abused, opening the door to corruption. The SRS believes the proposed government solution is not good, as it is a continuity with the current corruption policy of public procurement in Serbia. That is why this amendment has tried to, in a constructive way, influence the eradication or at least the restriction of corruption through the annex of the treaty, which is concluded without the execution of the tender. We suggest that the current 25% solution remains in force, but not for all the value of public procurement, but only for those works whose original value is defined by the basic contract up to 20 million dinars. This basically means that the basic contract annex, which will eventually be concluded without a tender, cannot, or must not exceed five million dinars due to unforeseen or emerging circumstances. That's quite enough for all the ex post and unforeseen work for which the need may be indicated. Also, for each dinar, a whole new procurement procedure must be implemented. The SRS further stipulates that as the defined value of work under the basic contract increases, a percentage narrowing of the annexation area without a tender is carried out. We suggested that basic contract annexes for all additional works cannot be more than 15% for works contracted in the range of 20 to 50 million dinars, 10% for works contracted in the range of 50 to 100 million dinars and 5% for works exceeding 100 million dinars. We want to make a clear distinction between the works whose value is agreed to by up to 20 million dinars and works that exceed that value, and it is especially important to narrow down the space to annex a contract whose value exceeds 100 million dinars. To remind you once again, corruption, or the acquisition of illegal property benefits, has developed the most through the abuse of annexes. The harsh reality of budget spending is also confirmed by a number of budget inspection reports. The most common finding of budgetary inspectors on the non-intentional and illegal spending of budget funds by budgetary users refers to basic contract annexes. To conclude in the end, the rationality of public procurement must be seen as an integral part of the efficiency of budget spending, and regulations are mostly broken through contract annexes or subsequent changes. That's why I urge you to adopt this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10057	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it possible to amend it. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10058	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as a man of the profession, although from the medical field, who has repeatedly raised the issue of public procurement in our health centres in the past eight years, and especially the fact that in Serbia, the pharmaceutical mafia is doing what it wants, that it is closely linked to certain chieftains, primarily from the G17 and DS structures in certain hospitals and health institutions, which has been documented several times, and which is in principle agreed by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, who said that this strategy is also in the fight against crime in the area of health, but we have, you have seen, as well as the general public, these new examples of Belgrade city hospitals. Dr. Momchilo paid attention to this member of the law that regulates what a jury should do to decide the drafts of the competition. We in Serbia have, indeed, in particular in local areas, in urban planning, architectural new buildings, construction of new buildings, major crime and corruption. A new law on local self-government, which gave the city's manager and chief architect the opportunity, has only accelerated crime and corruption at the level of local authorities. It is now impossible, if this amendment is not accepted by Mr. Momchilov, who, behold, will give some guidance and be a guideline of how it really should be done and decided, especially when it comes to building new objects, because this urban chaos and that historic buildings in many cities, such as in Kragujevac, are collapsing with some completely inconsistencies, in a city that has such a tradition and building of special importance. I have repeatedly mentioned the old building in Arangelovac, one of the most beautiful buildings in our country since the Brennović era, which is collapsing. I don't know how it's going to survive now that it rains and snows. Mr. Momchilov insisted on the amendment, which he submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that it be professional persons. Because the promoter said -- jury members, meaning a draft contest, projects, what should be built in a city, that is, a place. The jury members may only be natural persons who are not associated with participants in the competition. That's ridiculous. We suggested, in fact, Dr. Momchilov, that this thing with the participants in the contest should be deleted, stuck, and that the rest of the text be that they are persons with qualifications and meet the conditions for members of the jury. In the next position, the promoter says – only if the client insists afterwards can it be someone who is qualified from that profession. We have vulnerable cities and municipalities. Let me tell you an example of Kragujevci. They were the first to boast, Stevanovic and the city government in the past term, without those from G 17 and DS, as among the first cities in Serbia, i.e. our town of Kragujevac chose the city architect. We've voted on a general urban plan, there are streams, roaches of water, and aquaparks and what's not drawn here by that respective architect. But a hypothetical thing can happen, since both the gentleman and the lady are from the same branch, the gentleman is the chief architect, his wife is really an architect, he comes to her as an apprentice. Already everyone in Kragujevac knows business orderers, which is private, which is what some companies do. Now it's said, the faces connected to the participants. If I'm the one who has to choose or propose to choose a competition commission, I'll always rather propose to the wife of the Kragujeva city architect than him. He's not capable of it. Even one of his friends in the profession, they are connected in other relations, which we Serbs treat as cousins, gave the same finding. So we can't leave this for some of the important projects, and to build something that needs to be left for that city, and that it's a symbol of that city, we, in a competitive draft committee, choose people who don't have connections. What does a professor or professor of biology have to do with something related to the area of architecture, or a doctor, someone from the medical profession? They have to be really professional and qualified faces, because they're going to choose. It is very important to say that through all these organized lobbies, especially in Belgrade, and especially under Gilas's paws, large companies and companies that really have projects and designs that they compete with around the world, they cannot come to terms. A typical case for this is either Partizana Stadium or as someone calls it JNA, which should be reconstructed and which has been in such a state since the time of this criminal Zečević and all these clicks, but now we will probably also enter the process of adopting the law on the privatisation of sports societies and will have to come that day, right, to build a new stadium and to solve it all. She has now applied to one of the famous Swiss companies, with an excellent draft that meets the standards required by UEFA, and above all to be a beautiful picture of the city of Belgrade, but what it is worth when it does not give Gilas and this city picture, according to Mr Stepanovic himself, who is the director of Partizan's stadium. In Kladovo, what was a symbol of the city, this is the continuation of Karadjordje’s street, next to the Hotel Zelengora, and it is a really nice plateau and there is this shopping mall called "Shumadi", which is the mark of that old city architecture, the city’s largest core, the Kragujeva city government, be careful, with the approval, even the warrant of that mentioned city-garthicature, cuts all the trees. The trees that have been around for decades, some over 100 years old, have been torn apart, not only by trees, but also by kaldrma, so that part that was under the caldrum, which is also the mark of an era of the town of Kragujevac and our environment. What doesn't occur to anyone to take out what's the symbol of the city, possibly to bring it back with some new dress back to where it belongs, like all the big squares in the world, in all the cities where you go, it's like a nice idea to them, and in fact it's a disaster, it's now a simple asphalt, a plateau on which there's not a single tree, but someone's sticking like that. To leave time and colleagues to Perić, probably from the experience of his environment, from also one of the nicer cities in Serbia on the Drina coast, Love, I will end this, but it is really impossible for the competition commission to draw such important for the construction of all these objects to be made up of just some people, who are just not connected to the participants of the competition and have no qualifications. We insist on that and suggest you adopt this amendment to Dr. Paia Momchilov. Be assured that based on the experience he had, I repeat again from my profession, he saw that it was necessary and needed to change both in this part and in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10059	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Sreto Periæ, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 85, paragraph 5, we will be working after 18.00 hours today, and by discussion at the point of daily work that will be discussed at the session, not longer than 21.00 hours. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 6 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to present a few arguments in favour of the amendment submitted by the MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov. You all know that Dr. Paja Momchilov is a long-standing prominent doctor and has subordinated his working life to both primary and secondary health protection, especially to the more beautiful sexes. The truth is that I come from one of the most beautiful cities in Serbia, as Ms. Natasa Jovanovic said, I will not talk about the problems in this area from my place, but I also want to point out to Mrs. Minister, I have a suggestion for you, Mr. Ilic, you can pay attention, when the amendments arrive, do not read this Republic of Serbia National Assembly, and especially do not read from which parliamentary groups it comes from. The only thing that became understandable to me was that it could only have been an obstacle, which is why this amendment was not accepted. You will see that there is no reason and no MP in this room, and of course the public of Serbia will understand that this amendment could only help you. Dear citizens, in this book are all the funds that you will submit, i.e. to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is further deployed from here and you do not have a better ally in the government than this law to help you, as you say, believe that you are the only one in the government, of course with your co-workers from the Ministry, who advocate that these funds be distributed as rationally as possible and that this financial crisis is felt as little as possible. If you really mean it, then almost all the amendments that have been submitted to this law, and without exception to the SRS amendment, should be accepted. This is what Dr. Pai Momchilov suggested to change, i.e. to add to Article 25(3). In order for you to understand and monitor what this is about, Article 1st point 25 - the client can conduct the public procurement process through competitions in urban planning, architecture, construction, engineering, design and IT areas. The draft plan or design is chosen by the independent jury. Article 3 of the amendment reads - jury members can only be natural persons who are not associated with participants in the competition. So, one objective reason that the promoter suggests that someone could be in the jury, of course acceptable, and Dr. Momchilov proposes to place a decimal after the point, and then to add -- that fills, therefore, the natural persons "who meet the professional qualifications in the area which is the subject of public procurement". There are now attitudes 4 and, of course, a few more views, but the Government at the time of refusal, I am absolutely certain, Mr Ilic, that neither you nor Mrs Minister have considered these amendments, says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the request regarding professional qualifications of jury members is contained in Article 25(4). What difference does attitude 4, complementarity exists, but it says here in attitude 4 - at the request of the orderr, and Dr. Paja Momchilov wanted this jury to be composed of experts during all the examinations of these offers that are there. The client, this is very important, becomes defined by the position of the 3rd bill. You saw that they could be state bodies, organizations, public enterprises and all others, and that's about in a direct way covering about 260,000 direct budget users, and they're in total with local administration, and from public enterprises about 460,000. In a direct way, this is applied to 460,000 Serbian citizens, and it is very important here to pay attention and to be in the jury of professional people who can in a good and quality way assess what needs to be accepted and what is right. In 80% of the laws you propose to the National Assembly, you say they should be adopted, that they are necessary because of the desire to join the EU. We are not arguing, it is your position, it is your path, your policy, but we are taking care of the citizens of Serbia, who are directly affected by public procurement. The biggest problem was not the high salary at the airport, in other public enterprises, although we are pushing for those salaries to be put under control. Did one of you ever ask how much the buyer's salary could have been made this year? He's not asking for a salary, he's asking the state to intervene in terms of the price protection, in terms of subsidising agricultural products, so it happened this year that the purchase price was 10 dinars, and we don't say and we don't suggest in the SRS that all employees in public enterprises have the same amount of salary, but to put it under control. One of the biggest generators for corruption and crime are public procurement, in addition to privatisation, as implemented, and we have proposed to our amendments and tried to resolve that, not much to you, but to the citizens of Serbia, we help to resolve it in a good and quality way. This amendment should be accepted, Madam Minister, and then, once again, you will have in this law the best ally, better than the Prime Minister himself, because you said that you two are the most concerned about how the funds will be spent, because public procurement is being conducted in Ljubljana, both in Valjevo, and in the Shop, and in all other places and should put them under control, but literally implementing this law, with the adoption of the SRS amendment, you will have one great help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10061	The word has an MP, Verica Radet, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10062	Mrs. Komic, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27 and your obligation to respect, on behalf of all of us and with all of us, a member of the National Assembly's 104th or dignity, and all of this with regard to Article 113, which reads that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure apply to all other participants in the session, in addition to the Members of Parliament, as appropriate to the meetings of the Committee and other working bodies of the National Assembly. I can't believe you didn't notice that Mrs. Secretary was acting inappropriately and contrary to Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, it's not nice, and it's not good, Mrs. Comic, that you haven't noticed, that Mrs. Minister comes in here and carries in one hand the bill, and in the other large cup of coffee, and that she sits here and drinks coffee. Madam Minister, if you have a low pressure problem, we don't mind, ask and we'll say go out and have some coffee. But you see how the MPs behave here. This is the National Assembly, here you have to take care of dignity, here you're talking about serious things, here you're talking about the Public Procurement Act, which is the source of corruption and crime, and this one that's now in effect, and that's how it's going to work with this one that's just about to come into effect. You must act in accordance with the function you perform. This behavior of yours shows haughtiness and insolence. As much as you're trying to introduce yourself as a nice lady, you want to show something else here. It probably is private, I don't mind, and I don't have any objections, but you here want to show that you don't care about MPs in the Serbian government, that you don't care about this House's position. That's what your colleague showed before you, who didn't drink coffee like you here, but she didn't give a damn about 122 amendments to 19 members of the law. You obviously don't listen to the MPs, you don't pay attention to what we're talking about, and the highlight is really, it hasn't happened so far, that the minister comes in with a big cup of half a liter of coffee and sits here drinking coffee. Mrs. Comic, please protect the dignity of this House. I'm sure you've seen it. I didn't think I was talking to the Rules of Procedure. I turned my attention to Mrs. Kolundzija, and I told her to distract Mrs. Dragutinovic that this is not how it is done, that this is not a cafe, it is the National Assembly. Mrs. Kolundžija must have thought I was joking, and that's why I had to go public, because it's ugly, I suppose, that the camera gentleman once caught a large cup of coffee and Mrs. Dragutinovic drinking coffee in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10063	There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I am pleased that the MPs want strict respect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This includes the handover of MPs, MP Momira Markovic. So that involves throwing. You'll leave a suggestion about telling the reminders to the chairman. We can't lead the House of 81, as many of us are in the O.R., but we need one or one. If the National Assembly were threatened by the behaviour of Minister Diana Dragutinovic, I would respond, give her a warning or a warning, but I am pleased that you insist on the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, referring both to Article 113 and Article 104. I accept your suggestion on the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask the Members of Parliament together to respect the request of the People's Parliament of the Witch of Work on what is all that threatens the dignity of the National Assembly. The mention is coffee, I'll add cell phones, I'll add phone calls during the session, I'll add that it's inadmissible that any use of time is overrun with an apology, I'll add a throw. So, everything that's already been written in the Rules of Procedure, and what we thought could be tolerated. I repeat, none of the government's called representatives, whether they are ministers or state secretaries, will be in a position to be allowed in any way to endanger the dignity of the National Assembly. In this case it did not happen, but it cannot be allowed to say insults to a pay phone by the MPs, no matter how much she agreed that 250 of us would take very strict control of the government's representatives. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a harshly injured member of the 104th and the dignity of the National Assembly was severely injured. I remind you that until now, ministers have had the custom of treating the MPs and this high house. I remind you that certain ministers came in jeans and shoes, and we threw them out of the O.R. until they decently dressed and came. This is also a misrepresentation and the National Assembly and the People's MPs, because I don't see it, Mrs. Comic, if this isn't a violation of Article 104, would it be an injury if we continue to do so? I won't be surprised if one of the ministers brings a barrel or a chicken, so he can talk and eat here while the MPs make amendments. I mean, it's extremely incorrect. I didn't throw it out of place. I just said it was an injury to Article 104. You always find reasons to warn me. And when I'm quiet, then you say "Mr. Momir Markovic shut up." Please, this can't be tolerated, because we're going to turn this high house, we're going to turn the National Assembly into a buffet, into a dining room. It cannot be tolerated, so it is not a minister, but also Prime Minister Cvetkovic to come. Get a bar and a pixel, 'cause maybe they're on fire for coffee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10065	Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10066	I announced it a few days ago, so I gave a few days of space to the government, but I haven't received an answer from the Prime Minister yet, so I'm going to repeat the question today, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. We've heard from government ministers that in 2009, we won't be naked, we won't be barefoot, we won't be hungry and we won't live worse than in 2008. But I haven't heard the answer to the question I asked: how many new jobs in 2009, as promised 200,000, will be realised, based on all these measures that the government is working on and preparing for 2009? So I asked a concrete question to Prime Minister Cvetkovic and I haven't received an answer yet. I hope he gets here soon. Here, in three minutes, I will ask the second question of the foreign minister, who was in the building of the National Assembly today and told the Committee, all the media are passing it on, that Serbia will give up European integration if the European Union makes a commitment to recognise Kosovo as an independent state in order to become part of the EU. I am asking Minister Jeremic, since he expressed the infidelity that this will happen, since five more states have not recognised Kosovo, and the EU is making decisions by consensus, the following question: will it be an act of recognition for him and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an independent state in 2009 and when in 2009 the EU will do and sign a feasibility study with the Kosovo Government for Kosovo? It is known that only candidate countries, those who want to become part of the EU, begin with a feasibility study? Will it be an act of recognition of the EU as a whole for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and will it then say that the EU is really working on it, because they do not want to admit it about Eulex... (President: Time) I'm finishing up, I'm sorry... and will they at that time consider that the EU is really behind the project of an independent Kosovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10067	We'll repeat your question to the government. You have two questions. But I think it's possible that you'll get oral answers at the government trust session, which we should kind of speed up, to get to that session. Mrs. Radeta has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10068	Madam President, you witnessed the work of the monologue Mrs. Comic, who in the most harsh way injured member 104, the dignity of the National Assembly, in an effort to court the minister. It's really amazing that someone would allow themselves what Mrs. Komic just allowed herself. I don't know who you're transferring to, Mrs. Comic, disrespecting the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are a good part of the day in your hands. You are the ones who make warnings, you are the ones who give warnings, which are nowhere to be expected by the Rules of Procedure. You punish the Messengers of the people. You take money from the MPs. You determine when someone broke the Rules of Procedure, when they didn't. You invite your colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, like this, come to Srdjan and apologize. You're acting completely inappropriately by the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. The highlight is that you tried to protect Mrs Dragutinovic from really no attack, simply our desire to respect the Rules of Procedure and to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If you think you're transferring something to the SRS, don't do it, Mrs. Komic, feel free to apply the Rules of Procedure. We claim that we do not violate the Rules of Procedure. We claim to act the way the real parliamentarians and representatives of the people and citizens behave in this House. You're in a position to punish us. You were in a situation, and you were at a time when you gave us notices, when you kicked us out of the assembly, when you brought security to throw us out. Do you want to do it again? Everything you think is your jurisdiction, but treat everyone with the same archaic. You, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, since you have not heard my intervention in the Rules of Procedure, have never heard of Mrs. Comic's multi-minute monologue, please read that part of the stenogram and I am confident that you will never leave Mrs. Komic to lead parliament again. Indeed, such conduct and insult to the dignity of the National Assembly are sufficient by the vice presidents of the National Assembly. If you think it is appropriate for Mrs. Minister to drink coffee from a half-litre cup here in parliament, Mrs. Komic, you are constantly praising some of the experiences from parliaments across Europe and around the world, as far as I know... (President: Time. I end up, only in the Mexican Parliament is allowed to drink coffee in benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10069	Mr. Marash. I would simply like to say that the minister is in a position to be here all day, unlike all MPs who can come out. Just allow me, probably Mrs. Comic had no intention of protecting Mrs. Minister. I'll read it. I'm just saying, Mrs. Secretary is obliged to sit here almost all day. All MPs can come out, take a break. I don't think it's a sin and we should blame her if she's had coffee. Really. At the very least, that's what the vice presidents and I do, so if we agree that it's illegal, it has to be illegal for us too. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10070	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 104, violation of Parliament's dignity. Today during the afternoon debate, I asked when a meeting of the two committees would be held to find out whether Minister Dinkic or Minister Skundric were telling the truth. Unfortunately, Mr Nikolic has deceived all MPs. You, Mr. Nikolic and Madam President of the Assembly, must explain now, how is Mr. Buha not here until Monday? Since Mr. Buha is not in this room, when Mr. Buha is in the O.R., he writes up amendments and he has been told that they are scheduled to be committee sessions on Tuesday. You deceived us because you said that because Mr. Buha isn't in the Assembly we can't have a joint session of two committees tomorrow. I have to say this for the public. The fact that one ship sinks and some are trying to escape now, resigning as head of a negotiating team with Gazprom, that someone wants to buy a few days, that maybe they'd run away too, or that maybe some other things would do, that's no reason for you to deceive the Assembly, to deceive all MPs here. Mr. Buha's in the O.R. We're asking you to meet him and arrange a session with him tomorrow. Tomorrow's joint session of the two committees, that Domminister Skundric and Minister Dinkic, on December 20th, is approaching, you want to buy time for someone to sign the agreement. We're looking for moratorium. Until the Constitutional Court responds to an LDP initiative to protect constitutionality and legality because of the agreement, we are looking for a moratorium that no one can negotiate anymore. Until the Assembly declares whether the Assembly is only signing a 51% NIS contract, since this Assembly has declared that all three contracts, NIS, Banatski Dvor, South Stream, are going. We heard from Minister Dinkic, head of the negotiating team, that the Russians don't want to sign all three contracts, that the Russians don't know if there's going to be a South Stream, that the Russians don't know if they have the money. They have the will, but they don't have the money for the South Stream. The Russians just want to buy NIS. Someone else here cares about selling that NIS. The assembly didn't vote on it here. We were against it back then and now we're against it. You can't deceive us. Mr. Buha is in this building and Mr. Buha says, once again, he will come to confirm it, that he has been informed that the session is scheduled for Tuesday, and you said that because Mr. Buha is unable to be here by Monday, that that's why she's scheduled for Tuesday. Mr. Nikolic, that is a great violation of this congregation's dignity and morals. We ask you to meet Mr. Buh and schedule a session of these two committees for tomorrow, since there is no time. What you're trying to do, I don't mean specifically you, those who care about signing this agreement, what they're trying to buy time in this vacuum, and those who are running off a sinking ship, I have to underline, you don't want to come here tomorrow. That's another thing. You have this obligation, ministers from one government, two different ministries and completely different things they say. They deceive the congregation, deceive the citizens. That's why Mr. Nikolic and Madam President, please believe that you were deceived in that case. Make an appointment for tomorrow. You have that possibility. Mr. Buha is agreed to be tomorrow. I'm calling him, if he's watching this, he can come down to the O.R. and say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10071	I will give my word to Mr. Nikolic, but I must tell you that I failed to arrange a Tuesday with Mr. Dinkic. If we're changing the schedule, we're going to do it now, see that some circumstances have changed. You accepted it to be Tuesday and to secure both ministers. I was very active on that plan. I understand. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10072	For the truth, to repeat that after we received letters from the president of the Committee, yesterday I tried to contact Mr. Buh. He was gone yesterday, so I asked the Secretary of the Industry Committee to get in touch with him and that the two secretaries of the board agree on a time when it is most convenient to conclude, given the president's obligation to attend the meeting. At the same time, we agreed that this report on the course of negotiations had all the members of the board, both of them, and all the heads of parliament. Also, it's true that I heard from Mr. Buh, it's true that he's in the Assembly, writing amendments to the draft budget law, and we agreed to see each other at 5:30, to come down to the Assembly and try, as far as the board is concerned, it's no problem that tomorrow is scheduled. But that doesn't mean anything if we don't have a joint session with ministers, and therefore the moment the ministers agree, the committees are ready. Whether it's tomorrow, Monday or Tuesday, I've been told that it's possible for that session to take place on Tuesday, at 13 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10073	If I may ask the board's presidents to make a definitive deal as long as the afternoon's work takes place, the sooner the better. So we absolutely respected all the initiatives. I think it doesn't matter, we need to see when the ministers are here. I would also ask Mrs Grubjesic to make contact with Mr Dinkic, Minister, to see the time when he can be here. So, Mr. Skundric has so far accepted the term we offered, 13 hours on Tuesday, but he will be able to adapt to the new term if needed. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10074	I would really ask all MPs to behave in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In doing so, I don't think all the MPs here were mean, but I'm afraid they can and so it's understood, maybe not us here, but someone who follows the work of this Parliament. This is the second time Mr. Buha has been mentioned as someone who can't be found, as if somewhere outside this planet and again, and for the first time and now, when it comes to this gas agreement, Serbian radicals voted for the agreement, Serbian radicals have voted for the development of all forms of co-operation with the Russian Federation, but Serbian radicals have been for everything to be cleared up, which is potentially controversial for any matter. When you first insisted on the appointment of the Committee on Industry a few days ago, then you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, scheduled the Committee, and I told you well at the time that it was Friday, the day after the Rules of Procedure scheduled for parliament, and that Mr. Buha had already scheduled a session of the Republika Srpska government in persecution for that day, because he is the president of the government. You didn't appreciate it, and without his consent, you scheduled that session. What's going on again today? When you were just a moment ago, when Mr. Maras also raised that question and asked these two committees to be present two ministers – which is certainly fine, let's see, it is illogical that one minister tells one story, the other one, and they should be together and say what the real truth is – Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, from the bench, when you said that Mr. Buha is not in the hall, she said loud enough - it's worse, she prepares the amendments. So, Mr. Buha has been here all day, since 10 o'clock in the Assembly, he's upstairs in his office, sitting with his colleagues, preparing his amendments. He wasn't there yesterday because he was in Apatino at the funeral of our MP Milan Škrbić's father. A group of our MPs went to that funeral, Mr Buha went, and it is really ugly to mention the name of Mr Milorad Buha several times as if it were someone who is not involved in the work of this Parliament or who is avoiding participation in the work of this Parliament. So please ask, we'll tell you. We know at all times where every MP of the SRS is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10075	Thank you. So, once again, I ask the committee presidents, Mr Buha and Mr Milan Nikolic, to agree on a change of terms, to inform me to contact the ministers again, although it is the obligation of the board president to call the ministers in writing and inform them of the time when they will be on board. Let's move on. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10076	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in one thing I am pleased with part of the explanation, which is that there is intent and I do not dispute that the intention has been shown so far by the Members of the Buha and on your part, the President, that every time the committees are scheduled when it comes to a matter that is very urgent, when a matter that is very important for the citizens and for the Parliament itself. However, I must tell the truth that when Mr Nikolic was here, he did not answer a part of the question as to how it is possible that Buha is not here until Monday, so that's why we have Tuesday. It's completely unclear. Mr. Buha is here and you agreed to speak to him today at 5:30. That story that you can't agree with ministers, etc., that's something else entirely. So the point is, you haven't consulted the Buh to make it tomorrow, as was our request. Madam President, we said today that we were agreed to be on Tuesday, because objective circumstances indicated that this is the case, although we thought that you might as the president of the Assembly could participate. The point is, you could have used article 77 and made an appointment, if Mr. Buha isn't here, because it's really urgent, December 20th is in a few days, actually nine days. At that time, a contract for the sale of NIS should be signed, which envisions 51% for 400 million to go into Russian hands, with 500 million, which are scheduled to be investments, we heard from Minister Dinkic yesterday, there will be no direct investments, but the Russians have asked that the NIS be in debt to a bank for 500m euros, at interest first 9%, and they have managed to agree to be 6%. The report that came in was terribly large. The report that has arrived has to be seen, so we can talk about everything the right way, but I think we'll have time to review by tomorrow the report that the Ministry of Economy gave about the negotiations being conducted. But to wait for Tuesday, to pass four days, that then, as you said, Mr Dinkic will not be there then, probably on Wednesday, there will be no Mr Skundric, and so it will develop until 20, and the 20th Assembly will be brought before the final act, or the authorised person will sign a contract with the Russians, besides that the Assembly has given consent to just sign a contract on the sale of NIS; South Stream, Banatski Dvor, if God gives good luck, and if the economic crisis does not hit Gazprom much, etc. That is why this congregation has not been declared, so we insist that it be tomorrow, and therefore we insist that the facts be brought forth here anyway. I never once mentioned Mr. Buha in a negative context, Mr. Buha, I repeat, always had a dear will to schedule tomorrow's committee, like you, president, and only in this context did I report back, to sort things out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10077	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Mr. Prokicu, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10078	The esteemed president, dear colleagues, was on the Committee on International Relations today hosted by the foreign minister and finally told someone in front of what he did, voted against the resolution on human rights in Iran, as the only European country to do so. I don't know if this government and its minister want us to become leaders of the third world or to be part of the EU? It was the only European country to vote against that resolution. If we see how much he's broken his relationship with the neighbors, with whom we've been so hard to improve our relationship, and if we now see that we're in danger of becoming Russian gourmet and being leader of a third world in some way, then that's a sign of a very confusing foreign policy. I think the government should explain in Parliament what its foreign policy is, and what does the foreign minister of this country actually do? I think she's so confused she'd have to be questioned by the highest organs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10079	On Article 30 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Gordan Rajkov. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic wants a word. Mr. Markovic, do you want to follow the Rules of Procedure or by amendment? By amendment, go ahead. Your amendment has been accepted and has become an integral part of the text. You can't believe it, but it's accepted. The professional service will, if necessary, explain a little. Mr. Jojic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extraordinary opportunity for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to finally begin to debate and adopt laws and regulations governing public procurement. All of this so far, what has been related to public procurement, and this crime that has been developing for years in our country, with deep roots, in fact, this Parliament and the MPs must make a greater contribution to end the crime of public procurement. There is no greater crime in our country than the crime of privatisation and the crime of public procurement. I would like today if the representatives of the Government could at least give us information or show any report of budgetary inspection, control or any auditor who has carried out the control of budget spending from the local community to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other republican institutions. Unfortunately, I am convinced in advance that this will not happen and that such arguments do not have representatives of the government. How can hundreds and hundreds of billions of taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not be controlled? As we talked about today, the law on the institution was passed three years ago, there is still no room to work in. Four of them are working, and by systematization 129 perpetrators are foreseen. It doesn't go to anyone in favor of having control. The ministries and authorities of the Republic of Serbia, so 25 ministries and 111 bodies, have no one to control. They control themselves. They report to themselves. But there are no verifications or revisions of those reports. There are around 11,000 tax references that charge taxpayers' taxes in the Republic of Serbia, and there are only 12 budgetary inspectors. Why is this a condition? So that they would not be controlled, because if one control, such as the SDK used to be, would be clear and visible to Serbian citizens and taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know, Slovenia hasn't abolished the SDK. So the SDK in Slovenia is organized, and it has not been abolished. But when the budget spending controls in our country are missing control. You have municipalities that have a billion-dollar budget. You have public companies with billions of taxpayers' dinars at their disposal. No one's in control. Prices of purchases, as well as the smallest purchases, which move to dozens and tens of millions of dinars, there is no one to control. Who controls donations? Nobody. Who controls the National Bank of Serbia, which does not tell citizens of Serbia where foreign reserves are, in which country are the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia? Who should report to the Serbian parliament and citizens? Government. The government is silent, so I call this government, ladies and gentlemen, the mini government: it's a bit of a cover, but it doesn't reveal anything. That's the problem. I repeat, it's a bit of a cover, but it doesn't reveal anything. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, why some work has been overpaid several times. A basic contract is concluded, where you have one price in the contract, so that the contract annex, after a short period of time, that price will be tripled. Why? Because he didn't have anyone to control whether the contract was real, whether the contract fits market prices. If it does not meet market prices, that contract must be annulled if market prices are exceeded. In the performance of the works, here we now have the construction of the roads. Before the war, when roads were built in Serbia, every 100 meters certain experts checked and received a share of the road. Take a look at this between India and Old Paz when it was built in 1936. In traffic, no single meter could be released until it was received by the competent state commission and checked that the works were carried out in accordance with standards and criteria. Furthermore, from the ordinary prices of supplying consumables, where are those who are privileged to sell? What is the price of certain products when it comes to movable things, and what is the market price? Finally, what does a buyer or a state authority need to pay? Ladies and gentlemen, from the local community to the Government of the Republic and every resolution, if budgetary inspection, financial inspection, tax collectors were now included, they would see there is no institution in which there is no rude violation of the law. You see, when it comes to renting state agricultural land, that state agricultural land, which moves in Serbia to hundreds of thousands of hectares, the state sees as alaibe's straw. What does that mean? We give in vain, especially if a tycoon appears from Croatia, Slovenia, as Mr. Todorovic, it can buy hundreds of thousands of hectares, and in leases, and in ownership in the Republic of Serbia, and a Serbian citizen in Croatia cannot buy a country's rate. Has the Ministry of Agriculture entered the price of agricultural land from region to region, from municipality to municipality? He's not getting into it. Prices range from 60 euros to 120 euros. In Banato, where I come from, there's a big yag who's going to take a long-term lease of agricultural land for nothing. The question arises: where is the inspection to determine whether the minimum, poor price agreed on is also charged in time? There's no charge. Major damage in Serbia today, the state suffers, the citizens suffer. Ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of millions of dinars only when it comes to renting our country's agricultural land suffers damage, because many do not pay, and they have taken possession, and the Ministry of Agriculture concludes the contract, but it does not say what time the contract is concluded and when the tenant is obliged to hand over certain agricultural land to the tenant. The government is acting and the government is apparently creating a picture in Serbia to fight corruption. In fact, the government in Serbia is just trying to simulate the fight against corruption and crime. All the mafias that have been discovered in Serbia have been discovered in a way that reminds more of a political campaign than a state-run response. I ask the question - why are some cases of corruption being discovered and some not? Why is it that only that case in Zrenjanin has been discovered and that there are far more serious violations of the law in many cities and municipalities? What is known about the influence of the tycoon on political and economic opportunities in Serbia? This is not responded by state authorities, and the public has no relevant knowledge about it. We simulate the fight against corruption, which is evident through the establishment of a number of institutions to fight corruption and crime. When it comes to corruption, there is something to be said about the Public Procurement Administration, which was founded in 2002. Its competence is prescribed to control the procurement procedure, while for the other two equally important substances, planning purchases and controlling the execution of contracts concluded in purchases, it is entrusted, but on a flat-rate basis. It is said here that this will also be regulated by the State Audit Act. However, although it has been six years since the institution was established, there are no results. This morning I said that only four people and an auxiliary staff work in the institution six, a total of ten, of 129 executives and state auditors. Let me remind again, as the new government representatives are present in the afternoon work, that in Western European countries, particularly state audits have an extremely important and special treatment. It is an institution that has its own private building, especially security, its own Rules of Procedure, which is highly rewarded and thus no one can enter that building without permission and influence state audits. How are we exactly doing with a possible review? Only if the police suddenly enter an institution and the shortcut finds the perpetrators in action and thus takes appropriate measures. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, public procurement is no ordinary thing. As long as the state of Serbia is not a state auditor and the budgetary inspection raises to the highest possible level of countering crime and corruption, it is a waste that we bring some regulations. That's not gonna happen. That is why it is necessary for these institutions, after the government, to be the first to fight corruption and crime, but not in the future to turn the phone and say – tomorrow you have control, get ready, this coming is a good man, I have agreed with him, consult him, he will write the minutes, and I think it will be all right. Until there are independent controls, impartial ones, on which no one can influence on any basis, by vertical or on the other hand, there's nothing we can do to fight corruption and crime. One contract, basically, is 153 million dinars, so that the contract's annex will, in a short time, be increased to 530 million for the same work. If you, gentlemen of the government, think you're so skilled and artful, smart and willing to take responsibility, but without control, it can't last long. New elections and new authorities, however, will make changes and turn this Serbia in the direction it deserves and the sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10081	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 31. Proposal for a law on public procurement. Article 31(1) states: From the date of publication of a public call, the contracting authority will allow interested persons to have direct insight into competition documents, to download competitive documents or to submit competition documents within two days of the date of receipt of the request for competition documents, to submit competition documents by mail, fax or e-mail, and to be able to publish on the Public Procurement Portal. ''Stav 2: ''In the event of downloading or delivering competitive documentation, the client only charges the cost of multiplying and delivering the competitive documentation. ''The amendment is proposed to add the 3rd position after Article 2: 'When the realisation of public procurement is financed by budgetary means, the revenues made by the client in the manner prescribed by the position of the 2nd member are paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. '"The government has decided to refuse this amendment. It is explained -- the government does not accept the amendment ''for reasons why the proposed regulation would create an obligation for local level contracting entities, financed from the municipal budget, to not be able to charge their costs in relation to the multiplication and delivery of competition documents, as set out in the draft law, would already be paid into the Republic's budget. ''It is the duty of the procurement officer to prepare the competitive documentation. On the basis of this documentation, the tenderers will prepare the correct offer. Competitive documentation differs in each procurement procedure, as each procedure differs from the other. During each procedure, the documentation necessary for a specific case shall be drawn up. Competitive documentation contains: 1) call for tendering; 2) instruction to providers on how to make the offer; 3) form of offer; 4) form for assessment of the performance of the conditions; 5) model of contract; 6) type, technical characteristics (specifics), quality, quantity and description of goods, works or services, how to carry out quality assurances, deadline of execution, place of execution or delivery of goods, possible additional services; 7) technical documentation and plans, i.e. documentation on the creditworthiness of the client, in case of public procurement of a financial credit service; 8) form of price structure, with instructions on how to fill out. The preparation of the documentation shall include persons making the documentation, technically editing, printing, multiplying. Depending on the specific case, the documentation can be more or less extensive. In some cases, the offer can only be prepared after a direct review of the place where the procurement will take place. This creates certain costs for the client, and in addition, the cost of delivering documents by mail, fax, e-mail or by publishing on the Portal of Public Procurement. The charge of all costs shall be charged by the contracting authority from interested bidders. The legislator who developed this proposal for a law on public procurement did not explicitly prescribe the revenue made by the tenderers on the basis of the cost of multiplying and delivering competitive documents when the realisation of public procurement is financed by budgetary means. The solution proposed by the SRS through the submission of this amendment would bring double benefit. First, this would prevent revenues from being paid on this basis at the expense of the contracting authorities' own incomes, as is now in practice, and on the other hand, the payment to the Republic of Serbia's budget account would generate substantial revenues on an annual basis aimed at financing public expenditure. This is more of an argument to accept this amendment. The law on public procurement was passed in July 2002 and was presented as the first system law of anti-corruption character. The objectives of passing this law, as democratic officials then said, were savings and rational use of budgets, strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms, strengthening competition, strengthening the private sector and faster EU accession. In practice, however, there have been many problems with the existing public procurement system. The basic problems turned out to be the following: prices for the same types of products, services and works vary significantly from the orderr to the client; the price is mostly taken as the main criterion, because it can be easily defined and defended during the evaluation, while quality is given significantly less importance; there are no precise data on how many goods, services and works have met the needs of the client, defined in the competition documentation and in the contract. The assessment of the relevant number of customers is that the quality of the purchased goods, services and works is not satisfactory. A large number of retail clients have raised significant problems in terms of effective coordination of the introduction of good practice, standardisation, capacity building based on professionalisation. Public procurement is understood by the managers of the contracting authorities in a simplified manner, without considering their true importance, content and complexity, resulting in significant underestimation. Public procurement transactions are separate from the planning and monitoring of the execution of contractual obligations and have the treatment of purely administrative work, which is negatively reflected, both in the efficiency of public procurement operations and in the possibility of their effective control. A small number of officials specialize in public procurement, while in most cases officials do this job occasionally, with other main jobs, with the absence of professionalisation in public procurement, significant time and money for the realization of the tender. A very low level of standardisation in public procurement, inadequate verification of public procurement procedures, with the total absence of external checks by the State Auditing Institutions still not functioning, then inefficient internal verification by the contracting authorities, since the internal audit unit exists in a very small number of contracting entities, with procedures that are just being created. Then the high risk of corruption, especially in the planning phase and preparation for the procurement process, as well as in the contract implementation phase, which are under-controlled by competent authorities, external and internal audits. Weakening discipline in law enforcement, with the absence of sanctioning violations of regulations. The existing Public Procurement Act should sanction irregularities established by the Commission for the Protection of Rights in the tender appeal procedure. By decision of the Commission, public procurement may be fully or partially annulled and it may be possible to initiate a procedure for determining the criminal liability. The Commission’s decisions are generally not respected. The regime allows other laws to be respected, and this law is not respected. Infringements for legal persons are between 100,000 and millions of dinars, and for those responsible in the legal face from 20,000 to 50,000 dinars. However, when the Public Procurement Administration submits a misappropriation for irregularities in the procurement procedure, the responsible persons shall be punished only by a warning or by some mildest penalty. The main problem is that in Serbia laws are broken, criminal provisions are not applied, so corruption is booming. Millions of appropriations, i.e. Tax taxpayers' money, Serbian citizens, ends up where it doesn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10083	Thank you. According to this amendment, Mrs. Vervain Radet wants you to come in. You have 5.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague of Lidija Dimitrijevic has indeed made an excellent and professional explanation of why it is necessary for this amendment to be adopted, but I have called to draw attention to some concrete things that prove and why you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, in fact, afraid of the law. You're proposing laws, or the assembly majority is adopting them, because you have to fulfill some form, to pass some law that's somehow called, exactly as you're prescribed, and when we want the amendments to help you be precise and clear, that the laws don't allow malfeasance, that the laws don't allow abuse, then you have a lot of resistance to it, and you don't really want it. I remind you of the period of September 2007, a well-known and well-known "Unisyad Belgrade" affair -- Sinisa Jasnic, who then said that the tendering for the purchase of Serbian representatives' equipment at the event was impossible and added that it would be a unnecessary waste of money. Imagine if anyone's ever heard more nonsense. He says, "No one in the world," says Mr. Jasnic, "no one in the world calls a tender for the conclusion of sponsorship contracts." Why spend money? The manager is responsible for a possible poor assessment of market value, Jasnic said, but of course he did not say the manager was a criminal. That's the point and that's the main problem. It was a clothing and footwear contract, I remind you, worth 250,000 euros, the University of Belgrade, the organiser of the 2009 contest, signed the contract with Croatia's Vortex, which Serbian athletes also wore at last year's Bangkok University. Against that and such a contract with Vortex, whose possible profits in Belgrade University were estimated at 3m euros and Croatian media at 5m euros. Of course, the Union of Serbian textile producers rebelled, but who is asking them is asking who took the commission, that's what we said in that previous amendment to protect our producers, or our bidders in public procurement, but in particular in the DS, the party G17 plus does not care. Here, I just got the news, the agency news that Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić was on the RTS last night, talking about the fight against crime. She's, by the way, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, for those who don't know. While she spoke on RTS against corruption and crime, her husband, Zoran Stojacic, otherwise director of the grain hall of sports in construction, was arrested for involvement in malfeasance with Goran Knezevic, also a DS official. I fenced myself, and I said this was news from the agency, but it's hard to believe that some agency would play around in such a way as to put something like this on the news without it being true. So, these details, ladies and gentlemen, from the ruling coalition, Mrs Kalanovic, speak about the relationship the government of the Republic of Serbia has to do with the Public Procurement Act, according to fair public procurement. If you cared about it, you'd be applying a law that is now in force, which, this morning I spoke, four times changed and 444 times not applied. It'll be the same with this law. You are free of laws until you change your mind that you must face crime, that you must free yourself from corrupt people in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in public enterprises. As long as it doesn't clear up, we bring laws here for nothing, you don't apply them, no one answers. Here, and in the case of Mr Jasnic, the finance ministry announced in September 2007 that the budgetary inspection would consider this sponsorship, as business was concluded past the tender. Did anyone ever find out if there was this budget inspection and what she did? It's not. Do we know what she did to a budget inspection at the Krisht airport? We don't know. So all the problems you push under the carpet, from day to day more crime, more corruption, more and more hungry people, these in power are getting richer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10085	The 38th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by the People's MP Gordana Rajkov. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Radica Jocic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter, Radica Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 43. The draft law on public procurement, which reads in Article 43(2), is replaced by the words "the client can" in the words "the client of the sea". The Government has not accepted this amendment, and in its explanation it states that the area of protected rights, intellectual property and the use of patents is governed by the rules in those areas, which leaves the contracting authority, in the sense of the Public Procurement Act, with the possibility, not the obligation, to provide in the competition documentation, that the compensation for the use of patents, as well as the liability for the violation of the protected intellectual property rights of third parties is borne by the tenderer. Before I move on to a concrete law, I would briefly refer to an area that the Government says in its explanation is governed by special laws. It's an area of intellectual property mentioned here. Just one example. Innovator Dragisa Mladenovic of Piroth, who for his invention of the century, has been a multi-purpose mill for grinding grains, producing integral flour and grinding of medicinal plants, has been duly declared at the Federal Institute for Intellectual Property under number P471/03 and awarded the contest for best technological innovation in 2007, under the code PP1039K19, has lost his right, since he has only paid the necessary small fee with the day of delay. We cannot treat people who make exceptional contributions to improving the quality of production in the industries that are of great importance to this country and that we import many products from this area. As far as public procurement and privatisation are concerned, I think the government has made such laws in this area, in order to allow their people as many malfeasances as possible and as many percentages as they can from tender to tender. One example of major embezzlement is the company Agroproduct from Pirot. Workers of this company who have not received a dinar for 14 years on behalf of their executive judgments, are buying the slaughterhouse of this company at the decision of Executive Judge Rancic Jovica No. 496/97 since 2008, since 28.12.2007, in order to annul this solution and make a decision to place the slaughterhouse for free sale. In a similar way, former director of Agroproducer Jovica Grgurovic created his own income from, according to the expert's findings, 60 million dinars, and protects him, said Pirocans, and the verdict does not make, Judge Jelisaveta Manic, who also does not launch proceedings against Ratko Petrovic, the owner of the Earth Co-operation "Klas" from Piroth and V.d. the same "Agroproduct" according to the case K19/03. This little example shows that the area of public procurement is very suitable for abuse and that it is necessary to make very precise arrangements. Many companies, such as the White Palanca "Vesna", "Future", "Ukras" and agricultural cooperatives, thanks to such imprecise laws, have been disintegrated and failed from owners to owners, and workers have remained on the street with nothing. Therefore, for the sake of more precise regulation of the areas of these public procurements, this amendment of the SRS should also be accepted and avoided in the legal regulation the word "can", which usually leaves a large space for free interpretation and abuse. In the voting day, this amendment should be adopted and the contracting authorities should clearly and precisely require in the competition documentation that the fee for the use of patents, as well as the liability for the infringement of the protected intellectual property rights of third parties be borne by the tenderer. That narrows down the space for people of science to be damaged and helps to make this more precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10087	People's MP Velimir Ilic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10088	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Today, the dignity of this congregation has been overrun at the government session. Today is debated and votes on our decision on a gas deal, which we have brought here with 214 votes "yes". Following the ratification of the 214-vote contract, the contract became the law of the Republic of Serbia, passed in parliament. Can the Government or the Minister of Government ask to discuss the law passed by the Assembly? Of course, the debate is ongoing and insists on breaking the law. Now let's start each law to discuss individually and vote - what's wrong, what's wrong. Democracy says -- the law is respected by the majority in parliament. Please don't let that happen anymore and let this question - whether we respect the law or not - no one is allowed on government terms anymore. I would ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic to appear in parliament, to explain whether he can restrain his minister, to calm down and break more controversy - is the good law voted here in parliament? We know how to break the law. If the Constitution is broken, if it has any basis, there is a methodology and technology. I ask you not to cast this nation with a gas agreement. If someone has orders from anyone on the outside that it has to bring it down and keep tearing it down, we don't have to discuss it any further. And to preserve this House's dignity. Also, some council has brought down the concession law that was voted here in parliament. If that's how we start breaking laws, what are we, a banana state? Which Parliament are we? What are we discussing here? If we're passing a law on public procurement, it has to be respected. When we bring him in, he is a sacred letter to every minister in the government, who has been elected also from this Parliament. Please, let's ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic to come forward. If Dinkic is prime minister, let it be said, and we ask the president of Serbia to reason with his minister, that we have not been here for half a year to discuss whether something is good or not. It was an argument. It was a vote. Most of the votes were voted. What has been voted must be respected and we will always insist on it as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10089	There's no breach of Article 104. The topic you gave as an explanation will be the subject of a joint session of the Committee on Industry and the Privatisation Committee. The last thing I know is Tuesday, along with the presence of both ministers. The breach of Article 104 refers to the course of the session that is taking place now, not to events outside this room. Minister Verica Kalanovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10090	Mr. Ilic, what you're looking for has just been represented by Mr. Dinkic. Read, please, the law you signed on the gas agreement. I want to tell you that today Minister Dinkic in the government has advocated compliance with the law passed by this assembly with 214 votes "yes". And that law, to remind you, means respect for the three obligations of the Republic of Serbia and Russia at the same time. This means - (I'm sorry if I'm a little louder, it's simply a temperament) under 1) building a gas current that's being questioned; under 2) building a warehouse in Banatski Dvor; and under 3) privatising NIS. As part of an uninformed coalition, please inform yourself correctly before you go out and bring the wrong information to this assembly. Since I come from the government, I know what Mr Dinkic was up for, and that is what this assembly voted for for for the great majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10091	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is incomprehensible what is happening in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If, at the cabinet session, Minister Dinkic was protecting the law and the government was stepping on it, what will you do in that government? What else is keeping you in that government that's breaking the law? If you have now accused the second part of the government of breaking the law, and that Minister Dinkic was protecting it, how to applaud these yellow ones. Guys, you're completely divided as a person. The only thing that binds you is to be a government and to come straight from the government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Nothing else binds you. Tell us honestly, did the government decide today against the law? If so, there will be a session about the government's mistrust, come on and join us who will vote against the government to let the government fall. It's gonna be hard for me, because I think you've brought a lot of crime into this country, and we'll have some work to do when we take over. But if this bad government is to be brought down, we'll vote together like you. But to convince me that Minister Dinkic was protecting the law, and that everyone else was against the law, is absolutely impossible. So you know how much evil you from G 17 plus did to this country. When I accused you, I felt that one of my colleagues accused me of accusing me of only one part of the government, and I heard worse accusations against you after all that. But I don't believe you that Mladjan Dinkic was protecting the law because it's not personal to you or to him or to many members of G 17 plus who are in government. It would seem to me to be some members of G 17 plus who are in the Assembly because they're victims. You're the ones who took the money. For example, how much does the Director of the Commercial Bank have to pay? Twenty thousand euros. They beat up money, and these here suffer criticism from us MPs who know what their monthly incomes are. Mladjan Dinkic and your group are evil for Serbia, not for this government, and until Serbia understands it and until Boris Tadic lets you go to the polls alone, and not that this is bad for the government to spend all the money on the state, the situation in Serbia will not be good. I think that Mladjan Dinkic is so against Russia that he is able to do anything to make this arrangement with the Russian Federation not come true. That arrangement will be made. It was the wish of the National Assembly. It was the wish of Mladjan Dinkic when he took pictures with Putin in the election campaign. When you sign something with Putin, with Obama, you don't run away from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10093	I remind the MPs that if they receive a word under Article 100(1), they are obliged to say which member of the Rules of Procedure they consider to have been injured. National MP Velimir Ilic wants a word and gets it on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10094	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just can't believe Mrs. Secretary felt called out to replicate. I didn't mention which minister. I said the government is breaking the law and we want to know who it is to break the law. She has made an accusation, Madam Minister, that the government is breaking the law, and Mr Mladjan Dinkic is demanding that the law be respected. The law must not be broken by anyone in the government. That's why we're asking for the government's mistrust, because you're breaking the law. Here, you said, I'm surprised Mr. Cvetkovic, Minister of Justice, is breaking the law. Don't break the laws, don't play, don't break the constitution, you play very much, Madam Minister. You took it as if it were a private government. You can't do it like that. What is brought to parliament must be respected and we are asking for the dignity of parliament to be restored. Whether the law is good or not, it is discriminatory, it has been voted here that it has received 214 votes and you must respect it, and Dinkic, and the prime minister and the entire government. Don't argue with the government, come to your senses, don't accuse each other, we've seen that you're not good, and that's why we're looking for mistrust. It is clear to us that you are not good and that you are not working on even development and that you are doing what is wrong. We'll look at the budget, see how big the administration is, how much money has been increased in your ministries, ma'am. What are the salaries in yours and what are they in other ministries? What are the funds for personal income? You're developing infrastructure, you're developing even regional development in every city office, it's all costing this country. She doesn't have the money to throw away. We say financial crisis, savings, you all have to save. There are no budgets here to build a party infrastructure, to invest in certain municipalities, to give some municipalities nothing. How can you not be ashamed to take down the project of the Bride Dam? All summer, five municipalities don't have a drop of water to drink. You took off, there's no money there. Did you say corridors? Did you say from the NIP, from the budget? You haven't singled out the money for expropriation, not for projects, let alone for construction. What's this all about? Where's the money from Mobtel that the previous government left to this government? It's said to go to Corridor 10. Where are these funds in this budget? Where are the funds from the third VIP operator that was sold, 300 million euros, and these billions and 600, billion and 900? Where are the funds? So, ski all you want, do whatever you want... (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. )......................................................................................................... But tell us where the funds are and where are the promises made? You said Cachak-Belgrade was made out of the budget, not by concession. There's no money in the budget for that. Don't lie to us and tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10095	I remind the MPs that if they receive a word under Article 100, they are obliged to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10096	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure because the dignity of the Assembly has been violated. The Parliament's dignity is injured by being told from one parliamentary party, whose MPs sit here equal to the others, that our party is the greatest evil. So, I think that's enough reason to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm quite clear that some have particularly interesting reasons to address the G 17 Plus party this way. However, I see no reason to put pressure in this congregation on the subject. I call on you to return slowly to today's work. What we're talking about right now, I have to say: there's no problem with the government's functioning, party G 17 will no moment endanger the functioning of the government, nor is it ready to work. I think Minister Dinkic said very clearly here in the Assembly yesterday, and the MPs who attended could hear it firsthand, that what he is proposing is exactly respect for the decisions made in the Assembly here. What Minister Dinkic is proposing is respecting what the Assembly voted for and what the Assembly has brought, which is the signing of all three agreements at the same time. If there are attempts to do so differently, then the National Assembly should give the government a mandate to discuss it or decide on it. That's what G 17 plus is about. I don't think there's an MP who's going to stand up for something else right now. I will remind you that in the Serbian Parliament, we have repeatedly debated and repeatedly brought resolutions, let's say, about Kosovo, every time the situation changed or was different. If something changes now in the agreement to be signed, then it is clear that the Assembly should be informed about it. It is also proposed that all MPs be adequately informed about how negotiations have been under way and we think that it is legal for the public to work and the right of citizens to be informed about how these very important issues are being negotiated something that we as MPs certainly cannot dispute. So let's let us be informed about what was happening at the government, tomorrow will most likely be a meeting of the two committees where both ministers will attend, MPs will have a full opportunity to be informed about it and that after that, we will eventually talk about these agreements again. Don't, please, yell at each other and accuse each other of signing harmful agreements. In the end, we'll see who signed what. In any case, Minister Dinkic is not ready to sign any harmful agreement and no state-level agreement coming out of the mandate given to him by the National Assembly. Are there any MPs in this assembly who will oppose such a thing and whether there are MPs who will challenge the right of the National Assembly to give a mandate to the government... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... to sign state agreements on her behalf? The chairman. National MP Ivan Andric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I ask the MPs to address one another with respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which prescribes the way and the kind of language and style that we address one another.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10097	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, member 103 and 104 - violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I have to say, there's something I don't understand. Now I ask all those present, if this topic has already appeared on their own, to try to explain it to us. So, first, the Serbian Parliament adopted a gas agreement. In the light of that or asking for support from the MPs, it was said that one bad thing that we have to take over, which is that we give NIS without tender, by contract, in order to get two good things in return, is reconstruction of the Banatian Court and highway South Stream. It was supported, then negotiated. The Master's current is gone, the reconstruction of the Banat Court will probably be, perhaps, hopefully etc., but we must give NIS by the end of the year. Minister Skundric did not answer one question at a committee session that was perhaps the most important – why can't he wait for the NIS sale contract to get conditions to sign contracts for two other things as well. He didn't have the answer to that question. Then Mladjan Dinkic comes out. So I have to ask you a very important question, and that is why I reported to the Rules of Procedure, and that is indeed an insult to Parliament. If the real reason is that Mladjan Dinkic resigns as a negotiating team is because the government is going to break the law with that contract, so why are you staying in that government? What is your motive for participating in a government that you know will do something illegal? We really don't understand it, and that's why we say, the LDP says -- that's not the reason, because Mladjan Dinkic realized that he will eventually be responsible for breaking the constitution, for breaking the law and the worst possible contract in Serbia. And now he's trying to get out of that sinking ship, as counterpart Marash said, get out and say it has nothing to do with me. You know what, it's really an insult to parliament that as a reason for the cease-fire of that post, MPs G 17 and Madam Minister, I'm sorry, but they state the reason why his resignation was because everyone else was breaking the law, as Mr Ilic said. If the Prime Minister breaks the law, how can you be in that government? I guess he should go to prison for that prime minister who breaks the law, not have the support of your parliamentary group. That's the point. We asked for two committees to meet. Then it was Tuesday, it's gonna snow on Tuesday, so it's gonna be 21 and it's gonna be late. Tomorrow fashion is that board session, they both have to come and say it. When the MPs determine who lied, the other minister cannot remain a minister in that government because he lied to the MPs of the National Assembly. The least we can expect is the resignation of the minister who lied, one of them. Our power ends with being able to ask questions, but only how can we seek responsibility for that if someone asks the questions we ask gives false answers. I'm sorry for overstepping.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10098	The word is from MP Zoran Ostojic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10099	Dear Vice-Presidents, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, I think the dignity of the Assembly has been violated. You know, if the law is being broken by MPs who were ministers and when they were ministers, they said they wouldn't respect the Law on Public Procurement because he's stupid and has to get something urgent, it's a violation of the Parliament's dignity. What happened to this gas-oil deal with Russia? It was adopted by the technical government of Vojislav Kostunica. Who was sitting in that government? Those who are now pretty much on the opposite sides, and together they adopted it. Is this agreement ratified in this assembly? Yes, it is. Who voted for ratification: 214 MPs. Who's among those 214? On this side and on the other side, except for us from the LDP, who we immediately said was a bad job. What happened now? It happened that we're gonna finish some of that next week, sell NIS for 400,000. What about the other one? That'll be when it is. When we ratified here and when we discussed it, remember that even then it was known that Gazprom would be doing a feasibility study in 2009 or 2010. It's not a new fact from the other day. They don't know if they'll make it either. It's being manipulated here by the story, see, Putin said, said Obama, etc., so I guess that's a guarantee enough. We do not dispute that there is a political desire of the Russian Federation to build that pipeline, but desire is not enough, opportunities are needed. Remember the film Rajko Grlic and Bate Zivojinovic and you will see that the wish is not enough. That's why we say, if possible, that's what you voted for, you LDP us into absurd situations, we were against the Constitution, you're all for the Constitution. Then you're breaking the Constitution, in our opinion, but the Constitutional Court is the only one who has to say if it is. We say this agreement is against the constitution. The fact that he was signed and followed by the president and prime minister, it is not a guarantee that it is not against the constitution. We defend the Constitution from you. Now we defend what we voted against, and that agreement is your vote. If it's all a package, well, it'll pass the package. Now we hear it's not a package. We want citizens to say this is absurd. This is where those who are together in the technical government, even, if I remember, were pretty well-relationshiped and boasted that they were super friends, super ministers, etc. It can't be the government, which someone has stayed in power, and someone has gone into opposition, to be the reason for hypocrisy, for anything else, for a political struggle that isn't principled. (President: three and a half minutes. If the agreement is a package and if we don't get that package in December, then you've violated everything you've voted on. That's what needs to be determined. We at the LDP are really asking you to make a deal on whether that's what you voted for. According to us, it's not. That's what we said back then -- that it's going to be NIS right away, and the pipeline to "I come to you," if there's a possibility, and the political will really isn't controversial, but it can't be made a pipeline.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10100	The word has been made by MP Slobodan Maras, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10101	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 104, violation of this assembly's dignity, for the simple reason we've heard that some ministers, or part of the government, are breaking the law. As MPs, we have to react to that. I wanted to point out another thing, which I think is much more important. A document called "Information on the course of negotiations on the implementation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation in the area of oil and gas" has arrived in our assembly by Mr Nebojsa Ciric, State Secretary, one of those participating in the negotiating team with the Russians. Gentlemen, this is a document of this thickness and this document is the greatest proof that the agreement was a failure, that you were deceived. Gentlemen, you are deceived. You are offered to vote and support the agreement, where NIS is sold 51% because we will be given a bus pipeline and a Banatski Dvor that will function as a gas storage facility. That's not gonna happen. The only situation we're in is if we sign NIS. I would not accuse Mr Skundric here, who presented one fact on the board the other day, nor Mr Dinkic, who presented other facts on the board yesterday. Boris Tadic will sign this. Boris Tadic is committed to Putin, we all remember the birthday card before the elections, the pre-election pictures we remember. This is the obligation Boris Tadic has towards Putin. The fact is that your president and president of Serbia have committed themselves, under any circumstances, to sell NIS "Gasprom", to the Russian Federation 51% for 400,000 euros. What Mr Dinkic said, the truth is - the Russians will not invest in NIS, but are asking for NIS to be in charge. The Russians don't care about environmental protection, Serbia will bear the costs. We told you all that when he was here the deal, we were convinced by those who support him, that it wasn't written in the agreement, but those contracts would be arranged. The contract we need to sign, where 51% of NIS is sold, says everything we said. The Russians will receive 400,000 euros in the pearl of Serbia that will be exploited, will have a monopoly by 2014, will not invest their assets and pipeline -- the South Stream is hanging, or is it in a situation that we do not know if it will be, we do not know whether it will invest in the Banatski Dvor. That's what all of you need to worry about. Mr Dinkic in one thing is right, regardless of what we expect him to resign if he believes the law has been violated. It means to bring down the government, at the very end of the line. Let it come out of the G17 government, if these are breaking the law, but Mr Dinkic is in one thing right - we sold the NIS to get a pipeline, to get the Banatski Dvor, it is not here, you are deceived and you should all look and come to committees that will be scheduled, not only that LDP MPs are asking questions, and that it is clear to all of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10102	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10103	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, on the basis of Article 225, I ask the prime minister to deliver a report to me from today's obviously dramatic session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think we have a right to know what happened. It's not good when the government is spreading panic among citizens. You've been doing it continuously for the last month, if not two months, and you've been persistently trying to transfer responsibility to opposition. Very short, October 8th, we proposed amendments to the Deposit Insurance Act. You refused, so we could still discuss it, or we still have to discuss it. Who's late? The late government. At least the DSS MPs, or the MP club, are very constructive on this issue. More than a month ago, we proposed to form a joint committee, a committee of parliament, a government, a National Bank, to monitor the effects of the financial crisis that has hit us and that will hit us. You disobeyed that request. We are extremely constructive here, but today, to remind the MPs, we are discussing the Public Procurement Act, and that's what we wanted to do, to discuss the amendment, but obviously now we are witnesses that there are significant differences in government, and now I would remind you of another important segment. 15 days ago, both Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic said a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement should be considered. I will remind you that only on this basis will the budget remain for about 250m euros. Apparently, there was some dramatic government session, where it seems Mr Dinkic again did not know what kind of influence, so he made a salty mortal, so it was said to have entered it. I don't know if MPs G-17 and Mr Dinkic are aware that the consequence of this issue can cause smaller funds in the budget. As much as I had the opportunity to look at the budget in these two days, about 50 billion were planned on the basis of privatisation funds that would fill the budget. There's certainly a mutilated NIS. That's almost 20-25 million. So, according to Mr Dinkic, we would have 250m euros less than a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement. We can see it's over successfully, but we'll talk about it when the budget comes on the agenda. Now 400-450 million are at stake since NIS privatisation. Look out, that's 600-700 million. So, on the one hand, you invite citizens and you say that this year will be difficult, how it has to be saved, you have made a proposal for a budget that is the way it is and, I say, we will talk about it when it's on the agenda, you yourself, before the sitting and the draft budget on the agenda, are opening up such issues here that you are just jeopardizing the budget and questioning the implementation of that budget even before it is brought here. So I'm telling you, don't accuse the opposition again. Continue here, go out for this pay phone and accuse each other, but let it be remembered that, before the budget arrives on the agenda, the ruling party, the ruling coalitions are jeopardizing that budget. It is a great reminder to the citizens, and when we warn, we do not spread panic, but it is you from the ruling party that make this country panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10104	The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10105	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, Mrs Comic, are doing the truth because this information on the course of negotiations on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation in the field of oil and gas industry has arrived in the office and since it was given to multiplication, members of the Committee on Industry, members of the Committee on Business and Privatisation and the heads of Parliament clubs will receive it, so I assume that my dear colleague who spoke before me has been uninformed that this report has certified 12 members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by his signature. I will read their names, these are: Nebojsa Ćirić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; Biserka Jeftimijevic-Drinjaković, President of the Board of Directors of NIS; Tatjana Isaković, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government; Dusan Mrakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy; Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Milutin Svetović, Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy; Branislav Zec, Executive Director of the Agency for Privatisation; Milenko Ristivojevic, Representative of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development; Borko Stefanović, Chief of Staff and Political Director at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Milos Saramandić, Director of NIS and Dusan Bijatović, Director of Public Enterprise. So, the 12 experts the government of the Republic of Serbia has engaged in these negotiations have drawn up this report. I'm just going to read you a few parts of the resume they've made, just for information, because I don't know if all the copies have reached all the MPs. So this is how, the position "Gasproma" and "Gaspromnifta", so here, you can conclude for yourself, they don't agree to the roof contract, with the reason that the agreement is sufficient guarantee and that "Gaspromneft" can't take the responsibility for the third party. Gazprom explicitly announced that the decision to build the South Stream pipeline would take place by June 2010. Secondly, NIS accepts, but with an additional agreement under English law, which would primarily refer to guarantees required by the Republic of Serbia. For the pipeline and the Banatski dvor "Gasprom" it proposes the application of English law, the jurisdiction of arbitration in London. They do not accept the mutual link between the projects and the guarantees for the execution of obligations in the NIS contract, insisting that we explicitly give up the application of the Privatisation Act in respect of the termination of the contract. Five hundredm euros through loans from a commercial-based buyer, under which the buyer draws loans, with a grace period of up to 2013, with a 10-year repayment deadline. They do not want an investment programme, but only some orientation goals, which is production with the euro 5 standards, meeting Serbia's needs. "Gaspromneft" formally suggests that by 2012, only provide financing for investments, i.e. to assign NIS, etc. This is just a resume. I hope that when you get all the copies of this report that we will be able to discuss it, too, but please, until the copies arrive, take the agreement that we have ratified here, take the agreement and compare what we have ratified here, and what the negotiating team delivered as a report, so you'll see who was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10106	National MP Judita Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10107	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the beginning of the story, I remind you, there was an oil-gas agreement, so oil and gas. We're told the oil part may not be very favourable, but I'm asking nicely for the gas part, so we'll accept the oil part. So that's how the story started, and that's how the MPs accepted and ratified this agreement, 214 MPs were then deceived. At the beginning of the story, the Russians insisted, we want an oil-gas deal, Banatski dvor, highway South Stream and NIS. At the end of the story, we sat down to the oil part of the story, only to the oil. So, we have come down to the weakest link, the weakest link that is the most unfavourable part of Serbia's agreement as a state and its NIS firm. When we get to this, we're told there might be a gas part, but don't ask for a guarantee, my God, we're serious negotiators, we're a serious state. And that would be fine. But with serious business partners, business doesn't come to you and you come to me. And I would especially remind you in 1996, an energy-like agreement with the Russian state was concluded by the then Milosevic SRJ. What happened 10 years ago? I would remind you, under the agreement, it was planned to gass the central part of Serbia and make a link part of the gas arm with Bulgaria. What's come out of it? Nothing. Was there a guarantee? It was, we promise. What happened in 10 years? Nothing. On this basis, can we now accept, as serious parliamentarians, as a serious assembly, that our word, our consent, our ratification of this agreement, is passing and just focusing on the oil part of the agreement? If we're going with the oil... (President: Please, MPs, say a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. )......................................................................................................... I'm shutting down. Why did we just get to the oil station?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10108	National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Please, MPs, let us not forget that it is our obligation to specify a member in the statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, and other MPs earn that Europe is waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10109	Article 104, although you let the time run before you gave me your word. Whether his name is Mirko Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic, no one I trust regarding the government of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm not interested in what one or the other minister is saying. What matters is what this assembly voted for - the agreement. It is a sufficient guarantee for both Russia and Serbia, because our parliament voted that too. That's enough guarantee. But what things were done and why they were done, I'll try to make my point in a few minutes. For example, the assessment of Deloitte & touche, the famous companies that otherwise evaluated Sartid, estimated that it was worth $470 million and sold for 23, for 5% of the value. They used a methodology where they estimated that based on their assessment, and you see how well they did the job, the price of oil would be 130 dollars per barrel, and then they calculated that the amount of NIS they were talking about. Today the price has dropped below $50 a barrel. If we calculated by that methodology as much as it's worth today's NIS, it would be far below this price of $400 million. In case we don't finish this privatisation, NIS could get into a situation like JAT, for which no one makes any offers, and in time the Russians wanted to buy JAT, to privatise it. Otherwise, it is our job, if we want to go to Europe, to privatise public enterprises, not to deal with their affairs and the managers of these companies. Otherwise, we pay the Hungarians seven times the market price for transporting gas, seven times the price. No one asks the question of the South Stream, not even the North. Germany doesn't ask a question, but it works with Russia. Bulgaria does not ask a question, Greece does not ask a question, Italy does not ask a question. In Serbia alone, we ask the question. some of the authorities. Why? Is it possible because of these seven times that the Hungarians are paid more, is it because of the Nabucco pipeline? He doesn't exist, for who knows which time I repeat. Even as an idea, even as a feasibility study, it doesn't exist at all. The South Stream exists. Now that the agreement's signed, there's a feasibility study. How come Greeks and Bulgarians don't ask questions? How does the Italians, as the final firm that makes it with Gazprom, not ask a question? We're the only ones here asking a question. "Nubuko" doesn't exist, there's not even a source for Nabucco. So, come back, let me put it as an MP for the opposition, on the agenda. Europe can't wait, we can't do these laws and amendments that we have. We should get to the budget. We need to come to a discussion about the government's trust, where we're gonna... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... prove once again that this government is incompetent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10110	People's MPs, a notice confirming the mandate of the MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a RIK report on the election of a MP to fill the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Milan Urosevic, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia-Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Milan Urosevic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to enter the O.R. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10111	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, a lot of predecessors have brought some things to answer. Before that, I want to call Article 226. I ask you, Vice-President, whether these two committees will be scheduled tomorrow, or whether Mr. Skundric has confirmed that he will come after Mr. Mladjan Dinkic confirmed that he will attend the joint session of the two committees tomorrow. I wonder if you have any information on Mr. Skundric's confirmation of his arrival? What interests me is getting, or I want to offer a way out of this whole solution. Let us wait for the Constitutional Court to decide on a request for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this agreement, which the LDP submitted on 16 September. Let's wait. It's an honorable way out for everyone. What's the rush? Why does 20 have to be signed? Why does the Constitutional Court keep silent when it sees, out of the public and out of everything that's going on, that it's urgent to respond and say whether or not the Constitution is broken? Of course, the Constitution is broken. The monopoly position of another country on our market is confirmed. A member of the Constitution has been injured. Protecting the environment, competition, it's all affected by this agreement. That's why we're taking the initiative and waiting for the Constitutional Court to respond. There's an honorable way out for everyone. Let's wait. Maybe we're wrong, maybe that agreement is in accordance with the Constitution. But why does the Constitutional Court then keep quiet? It would be very easy for him to say - you were wrong, this is in accordance with the Constitution and it can be a deal. I can understand most of it, especially DS why you're silent, but I can't understand why you're silent. You didn't vote for this. That's the point. If you love the Russians so much, this way if you don't let them sign now, you'll protect them, not just Serbian citizens and the Serbian state. The Constitutional Court will eventually have to say that this is against the constitution. Mr. Shormaz, I understand your need to defend Mr. Nikitovic, Mr. Mihajlov and all those who have contracted such a harmful agreement. These are the people who negotiated on behalf of Serbia. I understand that need. But, Mr. Shormaz, you say there's no "Abuques", there's no feasibility study. I don't care about that at all. There's no South Stream, which you voted on. There's no feasibility study. Well, that -- being, I can trust you or not. But, Mr. Shormaz, you've shown that you have different arches. That's sad. I offer you all an honorable way out. Wait for the Constitutional Court's decision. If it is in accordance with the Constitution, no one, but if it is - that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, we will be in big trouble. Responsibility was deliberately transferred to parliament. It has been deliberate and now an attempt to transfer to parliament responsibility, to confirm only the sale of NIS. It's harmful. That's not what you voted on. One day you will see, there will be a problem for all of you who have kept quiet on this subject. And, Madam Vice President, I'm only asking you to answer if Mr. Skundric will be present on the board tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10112	National MP, chairman of the Committee on Industry and Privatisation, Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Buha are currently agreeing with the secretaries on the Captain, which is the information I obtained during your presentation in an attempt to explain that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, a joint session of the Committee, at the request of MPs of the National Assembly, with the presence of Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Minister Petar Skundric, will be held tomorrow. You will be notified of the Captain in time and that is the control function of the Assembly. There is a word National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to speak after the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10113	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as far as the SRS is concerned, but first of all, to say Article 103, there are no problems, I think we were clear enough yesterday, simply do not engage in this debate because you have raised the issue of an oil-gas agreement, or the problem that has arisen in the Government regarding the claims made by Mladjan Dinkic, the claim made by Minister Skundric. You're going out with some information, or material that you've got. As far as the SRS is concerned, we haven't received that report yet, we don't have any other information except that information that was tied up when the oil and gas agreement was on the agenda and we voted for it. We voted for a gas-oil deal in the package, so NIS, South Stream and Banatski Court. This raises the question of the credibility of one of the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is Mladjan Dinkic. It's a notorious truth that since he entered the government on October 5th, he's been assessing when and at what point he'll leave the government. It is an indisputable fact, and I think you all remember the government of Zoran Djindjic, the famous phrase "Laki is a little nervous", when he left as if he had never sat in that government, or his ministers, as if he had never been the governor of the National Bank. So he left the government of Vojislav Kostunica after that, because the road to the EU was stopped, according to his assessment, due to lack of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. But it never prevented him from, as soon as he had the chance to head up again in government, from deploying in finance-related ministries and working all the time so that he himself and all the G17 members could benefit as much as possible. Let's cut the story, as far as Milorad Buha is concerned as president of the Industry Committee, we were ready to schedule this meeting today. However, they said these two ministers should agree, we cannot agree with ministers, neither can the Parliament, the Prime Minister can. If they're in the interest of agreeing, as far as one committee, the Industry Committee, is concerned, there's no problem. As soon as the ministers are told they can then and then, Milorad Buhha will fail. If you insist, Milorad Buha will schedule that session, and we'll see without ministers, with the facts, the information you have, but I don't think it would be appropriate for that session to be held without these two ministers present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10114	A material notification, which was inconclusive of whether everyone in the parliamentary clubs was given information from the secretary, is material, and members of the privatisation board and industry will receive material with the committee's call during the day of tomorrow's session when Minister Skundric and Minister Dinkic agreed. National MP Nenad Popovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10115	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, I would first of all like to say to the public that the treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation is the highest legal act that can exist. There is nothing greater and no other guarantee is needed because it is the highest legal act. That's number one. Number two, by ratification in the Assembly, this agreement has become a law, and the law must be respected by all, and primarily by ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to analyze why someone's out of the negotiating team now, it's either the government's decision of the Republic of Serbia or the individual, but I think two things are blurring here. That this conversation and the constant mention of the best economic agreement of the Republic of Serbia over the last 40 years wanted to cloud two things. The first thing is a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or one minister in June, if I am not mistaken, a decision has been made to assess the value of the NIS. For no reason in an agreement signed in January, one minister makes a decision to spend 500,000 euros to get an assessment that is not worth anything today. You can throw it in the waste basket because the estimate of any company in the oil industry is different every day. If the price of oil changes, the estimate changes. Again, that's when they said NIS 51%, worth one billion. Today, according to the same method, if the same input data were to be used and if they were to be used literally all the same as in the Dilloyt and the shower method, NIS today would be worth 51% just 118m euros, not a cent more. Estimates aren't supposed to be done every day on behalf of a minister. There he is trying to hide why 500,000 euros were thrown. The second question -- so much to analyze this gas deal, every point in it. The best economic agreement signed by Italy, Austria, Hungary, Bulgaria, Greece, probably Slovenia and France, all EU countries. But I don't think anyone's asked me any questions as to why we're investing in the Fiat. I'd ask a question here, there's a secretary of state, he can go out for a pay phone and tell us which cars this new joint venture is going to produce. You don't know. Is there a business plan? We'll be in the budget very soon, there's a representative of the Ministry... (President: National MP specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. ) Articles 104 and 226. So there's a finance ministry official, Mr. Ilic, so if he answers us, when they've already provided for a budget investment in "Fiat," when you invest in business, and here the state is reporting to the entrepreneur, and Mr. Ilic is an excellent expert, I know that, I'm not sure he's right for this contract with "Fiita," but I would ask him to explain to us, to show us the business plan. There's no such thing as a business plan. It doesn't exist. Every investment must have exact figures, when there will be a return on investment, within what time, how much investment, it does not exist. We don't even know which car will be manufactured. Now, this attack of the gas-oil deal again, we want to cloud what's going on with the Fiat. The gas-oil deal has been ratified, I hope next week it will be signed. We will welcome this signing with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10116	National MP Susana Grubjesic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on Article 100(1). I remind the MPs of the obligation to list a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured so that they can explain what the injury consists of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10117	Thank you for reminding me. Mrs. Komic, dear fellow MPs, I am reporting under Article 104 because the dignity of the Assembly has just been violated, as has been done by a speaker who spoke before Mr. Popovic and this next one. It's just that there are some facts clouding. Mr Popovic, I trust you as much as Vladimir Putin that the South Stream will be built, but the facts speak differently. The only way we agreed to ratify the oil-gas deal is that gas section, that Serbia would get a pipeline, that here, as you inspiredly spoke from the pay phone, would open several hundred thousand jobs, would rush investments, but above all, Serbia would get energy security and security. I don't think anyone suspected it would start building South Stream, but the facts say otherwise. Here, for a reminder, I'll read a few more parts of this report. It says -- the position of Gazprom and Gazprom, they do not agree to the roof contract, on the grounds that the agreement is sufficient guarantee and that Gazprom cannot take over obligations for the third party, and Gazprom explicitly announced that the decision on the construction of the South Stream pipeline would be made by June 2010. They do not accept, ready to consider the package with the social programme, but under market conditions. NIS don't even accept environmental standards, nothing. But what's most important, what you're all going to get, I don't want to convince what's here, I'm just quoting within the time limit I've been given, is that the guarantees don't have to start building South Stream and not because of Serbia, but Gazprom will only in 2010 assess whether it's worth starting with building it. What you guarantee, I thank you for that, you have special relations with both the Russian Federation and the Unique Russia, it would be very good if I could trust you that the South Stream will be soon, and that soon, as we see it, is not moving in 2013, 2015. Political will -- yes, but where's the feasibility study and where's the money to start building South Stream? As for Fiat, I think that after all the criticisms that are heard at Fiat's expense, it would be best if the flag were to return to its former state and find a new solution. This clearly, a contract like this, is not the will of many. If they hadn't given incentives, if Serbia hadn't given incentives, Fiat would have gone to Romania because Romania gave better conditions. Two tenders failed, 500m euros in subsidies paid in the flag in eight years. Please, as a successful businessman, come up with a new proposal-- how to solve the flag problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10118	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I can let you know, since we made a deal, that the session of both committees will be tomorrow at 1:00 p.m. and the ministers have confirmed their arrival.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's a good notice. I hope it won't be like that information, that the Ministry of Finance will send a budget inspection to Nicole Tesla Airport and that the MUP will send UPPOK. It's been ten days, even Kristo's back in the country, who says -- there's nothing more to it, here's a new affair at the pier, now we're going to gobble about it, everyone's going to forget about the airport and everything that happened ten days ago. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a serious question arises, regardless of all these facts that come out -- can we, as MPs, trust anyone from the Government with anything? Is it really this agreement, or this information about the ongoing negotiations on the implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation in the area of oil and gas economy at all, that we believe that this is true? Take a look at who was on the team. Nebojsa Ciric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development - G17. I don't want to go in, but he, by the logic of things, has to be on the side of Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Biserka Jeftimijevic-Drinjakovic, president of the Board of Directors of NIS Novi Sad. Please, how can you trust her? Who can, but normal in this state of Serbia, trust this woman? On the first day she came, I guess she came from DS, yeah, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't leave, the first day she got here, the first day she came, the first day she came, the first day she got here, she took a gold visa card and she went around the world to get her NIS money. There is Milos Saramandic, director of NIS, also from DS. We still have the embargo on the amount of his salary because Biserka declared that information a secret and that it could not be told to Serbian MPs, or citizens of Serbia. Milenko Ristivojevic, representative of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, also G17. Please, who can believe and make sure that this report that's being made is really based on the fact that it's true and that it takes care of the interests of this country. I'm not saying at all, maybe it is, maybe it is, but when you look at who was involved in this, I have a serious suspicion that this report is really based on facts, but on some other reasons. And the reasons are most likely a huge problem facing the state of Serbia. Just look at the Serbian Parliament... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done, so I won't answer on this one again. A huge problem in the congregation itself because the congregation absolutely cannot work, and because of the desire of the majority, because of the desire of the DS, because it was her goal. The government is completely now in a blockade because one part of the government, and basically there, everyone is pulling on their side, but now it's obvious that the problem in the government is huge, that a good part of the government, headed by Mladjan Dinkic, is trying to make moves at this point that are not at all leading to unity... (President: Mr. Todorovic, please. I'm done. We're just about to have the biggest problem coming up, which is that we have to defend our jobs with the sticks. That's the problem the state of Serbia is facing, and you're preventing them from coming out because you can't find those exits.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10120	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this session should be interrupted because I am really confused by the schizophrenic behavior of the representatives of the government, and that is what we, as an opposition, acknowledge, participate. In fact, you will rarely find a parliament... (President: Mr. Nikolic, please take care of the terms you use. ) in which the representatives of the authorities attack a government decision, and the representatives of the opposition are the defences. I know you're an expert in human illness, and here I'm talking about the diseases of society, so stay out of what you don't know very well. I can't understand that I have to defend the law from one part of the government, or that I'm involved in some kind of attack on the Assembly, which is doing a part of the government. We need to get this straight first. We need to know exactly what this is about. The easiest way for you, gentlemen ministers, is to have one session where you disagree, the next session comes to the agenda with which you agree and you go on, and we remain completely confused here, whether we are participating in Serbia's collapse, in the construction of Serbia, whether we have served you just to vote something you will never spend or something you want to implement even though half of you disagree with it. You really owe us a debt to come out here as a government with a unique attitude. It's a good deal or it's not a good deal. I repeat, that part of the government that believes this is Serbia's collapse should not be in power. It's not that power at all costs, it's not that power without you looking into people's eyes. But, while you are such defenders of Serbia, let me ask you -- how did Mladjan Dinkic, on March 28, 2003, as a member of the Rehabilitation and Banks Commission, accept Labus' proposal to sell Sartid for 35 times the price he was worth. What's happened to our Junior ever since? As Mladjan Dinkic now accuses the other part of the government, helping one part of the opposition, that it wants co-operation with the Russian Federation to destroy Serbia. It was nice to take a picture in the campaign and to give this president of Serbia, the government and the Assembly decisive points, to which he has taken up these three places we are now talking about. Think carefully of the G17. You've always had a good time to leave the government, always after that you've found who you can fool into building a government with him. I know that after these elections, just like some pricks and cursers, whom I will never forgive, you will never be in this House again. But what does that have to do with it, some of you cut short enough, and some of you have your professions, it is much more honorable to do this profession than to help Mladjan Dinkic ruin Serbia. During this speech radicals pounded on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10122	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10123	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 103 and 104. Given the fact that tomorrow's session of the two committees on which the topic is going to be what's on the topic here today, please move on to the agenda. At the same time, I want to say that this is still about one important issue for the country and that party bickering does not contribute to what is the country's interest. This is an issue that is important for all political parties, but also for all citizens of Serbia. It is not good to look unilaterally at this whole state arrangement and to draw conclusions that can damage the interests of the state based on unilaterally lighting of this issue. This is a strategically important issue for Serbia and I am fully convinced that the government is working in line with the interests of the state, and that the government will literally represent Serbia's interests in all negotiations and respect what this parliament has adopted. Once again, please, tomorrow we have the opportunity to ask all the questions, to get the answers we're looking for and to simply remove this situation where everyone from a given angle is looking at this question. I think it is important for all of us to look at in general what is a gas-naphtha arrangement and to conclude from the bottom of Serbia's interest to what extent it is important for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10124	Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 103, as well as Article 104, but really, Mrs. Kolundjia, there's no point in giving us lessons. This is where the position behaves the way it suits them. I don't mind. At one point, it is appropriate for them to go out of the Rules of Procedure, because they want the public to inform that they represent certain views and the goal is, as far as I can see from what Mladjan Dinkic represents, to directly accuse Boris Tadic of deciding to cheat on Serbian citizens, because the oil-gas agreement, which has been ratified in this assembly, is not at all what we adopted here, but something else. You're now reading our lessons, two committees are scheduled, and now we need to stop discussing it. Please, you should have discussed it in the government. If you had settled it in the government and the matter was completely clean, it would not have reached the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you would have known everything. But the problem is in you, not in us here in the Serbian Parliament, as was the budget. You want to accuse the opposition now that it's our fault that the budget arrived yesterday or the day before yesterday, and it was supposed to be December 1st. Now you're going to accuse us of slowing down the work, of slowing down the budget, which is why we're going to have to go on temporary funding and again the guilty opposition. I'm just surprised you didn't mention these new European values, the way to Europe, how we're late and how these retrograde forces don't allow it again. How can you not see that the core of the problem is in you? First, it took you a lot of time to agree, not because you're on ideologically different sides, but most of you are here on the European left, although some have received, some are waiting in line, but ideologically you're all almost on one side. Then what was the problem? The problem was the distribution of prey, who will receive which ministry, who will benefit from which public enterprises and who will benefit from it. It's a basic problem and a basic motive for which you deal with authority. But according to your old practice and habit of accusing the opposition, the opposition is guilty, because it puts dissension in the government when it comes to the gas deal, and the budget, and the laws, everything. The opposition is guilty of everything, and you simply fail to keep your promise to the citizens you've given in the election campaign, and I'm sure you won't be able to keep it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10126	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10127	Mr President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, we are prepared not to report again and that this meeting is an opportunity to clarify some views. But now people come forward who don't say we should sell NIS because we're going to get a pipeline, they say -- the price of NIS fell, so 400 million might be a lot. They confirm that there is something wrong with the realisation of the agreement. Now they say if we don't sell it to the Russians for 400 million, it'll go through the airport. They're not saying we get a pipeline. They're saying free contract. The dignity of the Assembly is being violated here under Article 104, as citizens who are watching are now being led astray. There is a dispute between Skundric and Dinkic. Skundric said - three contracts will be signed. We know that one contract will be signed for the sale of NIS, one agreement for the pipeline, so after the feasibility study, we'll see what, and for the Banatski dvor memoranda. The contract has an international legal force. It's got to say who's in charge of the dispute. The agreement and the memorandum are not binding, and that's what we say, if that's the case, that's not three contracts, that's going away from what you, not us, voted together. I'm not sure it can be solved on the board, but it will be an opportunity to ask them whether the contract is three or whether it's an agreement and a memorandum, which are non-binding papers. And two, here often from those whose heart is on the east side, wherever that side is, is manipulated by the Russian claim that there is no need for a roof agreement, that is, the business of all three things, because an interstate gas-oil agreement has been signed between the two countries. It is not true, because the agreement is ratified only in this assembly and thus has become the law in this country, and in the Russian Word it is not ratified and it is not the law. It is applied and can be applied, but until it becomes a law for Russia, the Russian state can always step down from it and we can't sue any court. I remind you, I am saying this more because of the viewers, that the Russian Duma has not ratified an agreement on duty-free trade with Serbia either. with SRJ, which Slobodan Milosevic signed sometime in the spring of 2000. Eight years later, that deal, and what "Fiat" leaned on, is not the law. It's only the goodwill of the state to apply the state agreement. The least argument is, if "Fiat" is a bad deal, then it's a good job NIS, or that you attack NIS when "Fiat" is a bad deal, why we have to make two bad conclusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10128	Will you bring the end? Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, has a word. I would ask, given that we have found a compromise on the session schedule at the same time of both committees, that ministers will come and give further clarifications, please, Mrs Radeta, to try to maybe focus our activity a little bit on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10129	Europe will seem to have to wait a little longer, as something in the Serbian government is obviously scribbled. Lucky looks like he's fighting back. You shouldn't have touched Bojan Krishta. You shouldn't have listened to the SRS. Let you, Kristo, says Lucky, the best manager, is the only mistake he didn't take at the right time was eleven and a half thousand euros in one month. It's not the first time. You remember how representatives of G17 plus, you remember that card, and then the sticks, when they showed how they were stealing voices here, the Bodrum affair, and then they showed it -- it was sitting here, it was Bodrum, and then it came and showed the cards, the empty plane tickets. So then Boris Tadic comes out in an election campaign and says - I will solve the problem of Bodrum, everyone involved in the affair will no longer be in any position in the DS. The Bodrum affair has not been resolved today. Neither guilty nor indemnity, the one Allen Selimovic received parole, but of course not because of that card, Neda Arneric. We were here, a lot of us here, and we know what was going on back then. Then says Boris Tadic and DS -- the Bodrum affair ended in court, and it never began. Actors of the Bodrum affair, for example, Bojan Pajtic, is now working intensively to try to apply the Vojvodina statute, which means the first step in the secession of Vojvodina from Serbia. The question is, what we've got here, we haven't all got yet, this is some big material. Mr. Todorovic read some names. Who can we trust here? This is not the document we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's just part of the government, and there's obviously a problem in the government. Does Dinkic have to pay back some money, it used to be said he took it from the ONV, so it's not that, or is it really some problem in what's being said here? About an hour ago, I informed you that it had appeared, as Tadic said that jobs should be kept, a job at the place of director of the Zrenjanin Hall of Sports, Zoran Stojačić, this democratic arrested (incarcerated, criminal, br), and I had just received information that another job was being taken by the head of Vojvodina, some Radovanovic, a democratic feather in Zrenjanin, was also arrested. Serbian citizens, it looks like there will be job openings, not only for those you will have to guard the poles and pens, according to Tadic, but also for some from time to time and empty. Who knows, there may be free people in the Serbian government this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10130	Mr. Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10131	I did not give up, Article 104, and that is precisely because of the MPs' presentation, some belong to the ruling majority, some to the opposition. It was said by G 17 plus, MPs, deadlines for construction of the pipeline are moving. Once again, this agreement is now a law and must be respected. Dot. He's a guarantee enough for everyone. No one asks the question, I repeat again, no question is asked in Bulgaria either in Greece or Italy, nor in the EU is the issue of building the South Stream, only in Serbia is the question, regardless of the possible shift in deadlines. What about the deadlines for EU entry? What about the deadlines for the Trade Agreement? What about the SAA? What about the EU bid? What about visa deadlines? What about a thousand euros for citizens of Serbia for public enterprises sales actions? What about 200,000 newly employed in Serbia? Do you know how many questions we can ask you? I was asked a question, at least I was apostrophe here, said I was making a choice and I was biased. If I understand the fellow MPs well, whether I should be biased between the Nabucco, which does not exist, and the South Stream that exists, even if Nabucco exists, and it does not exist – because it is planned with a source in Iran, but I can't have Americans just as easily in Iran, it is still a country of 70 million inhabitants, and the other state by gas reserves in the world – if I have to choose between the American Nabucco and the South Stream, I will choose again, as Dragan Shormaz, the DSS MP, the South Stream, because the Russians didn't bomb us. They didn't bomb us with tape bombs, bomb-rich uranium, they didn't kill us, they don't kidnap us Kosovo, and they don't do everything to take Kosovo away from Serbia. Even if I had to make such a choice, and thank God I shouldn't, because I repeat "Nubuko" doesn't exist, it wouldn't be hard for me to make a choice. It is interesting that here the two committees meet daily on some issues because someone insists, while EULEX is installed in Kosovo and the real Albanians of the country with the help of the EU for six months, the KiM Committee cannot meet. It is not a problem for the ruling majority and MPs, and this is such a problem that they must meet daily and that ministers appear here. I think we should all take a good look at the situation we're in. It is obvious that this government cannot solve the problems of the state and the citizens who are pressing this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10132	Mr. Dusan Bajatovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10133	Dear colleagues, I could also talk about tycoons in this story in accordance with this requirement, but that's not the point. I find it useful, based on Articles 225 and 226, to share some information with you. Tomorrow at 1200 hours is scheduled to resume negotiations on everything. A Serbian team will be changed, if I have good information, the new team chief will be Mirko Cvetkovic, which means we're raising the story up. Therefore, since our G17 colleagues have withdrawn, let me say, their negotiators, so will be the new heads of the expert team, on the Russian side will also be a partially amended delegation. We expect them to get people with wider powers too and to simply step up negotiations on good faith during the weekend. I'd also like to say a few political qualifications. First of all, it should be understood that this is the project task of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was won on the basis of a mandate that is here by a vast majority of votes, including the votes of our colleagues from G17, adopted in this assembly. The interstate agreement, however, is enough, to say, lapidaryly defined what needs to be done, but the essence is clear. Realising an oil-gas arrangement would mean completely new economic opportunities, and even saving in some way, since we know what our industrial production is, our budget situation, our deficit, your job risk and everything else you're talking about. On the other hand, the realisation of this oil-gas arrangement would mean a completely different geopolitical, including the security position of the Republic of Serbia, which I believe is absolutely useful and that it promotes our position, not only when it comes to KIM, but also about maintenance, so the Dayton Agreement and the overall position of the Republic of Serbia on the way to the EU, that we understand ourselves. As far as going out, so, as the government says here, I don't see it that way. Simply at this point, there is this kind of relationship or degree of solidarity by our colleagues from G17, and I am absolutely certain that this will not endanger the survival of the Government of the Republic of Serbia because it would generally be irresponsible and cause political instability, and that is precisely what those who are essentially opposed to this oil-gas arrangement want, which is political instability and social unrest in Serbia. And you know that power changes not only when you have an organization, but also when you have conditions to change that power. In that sense, in order to achieve the goodwill and political responsibility that we should all have, we have both declared ourselves politically and in the Assembly, and here we are now at the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I call on all of you to be responsible for the political and economic and social situation that we have here in Serbia and to behave accordingly, both the Government and the MPs and all those who are involved in the public scene. Thank you, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10134	Thank you. Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10135	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I will agree with one of the previous speakers and it is a really strange situation for us from the opposition to defend this agreement, which everyone has ratified practically in the Assembly, except for one party, and one party that is in power and in the government is against this agreement. It's a very strange situation, but I don't want to comment, so let's move on. For us, this agreement is practically already over, we expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement it as soon as possible, because really NIS can't wait anymore. There is a difficult situation in NIS, there is a difficult situation in the world today and it is certain that this oil and gas contract, which includes three elements, was never more necessary than today. The entry of Gazprom oil into NIS will bring thousands of new jobs, will bring direct investment, will bring development of NIS, NIS will soon become a regional leader, if not throughout Southeast Europe, then surely in the Balkans, but it is very likely to be throughout Southeast Europe. You'll see over 4-5 years from some medium-sized oil companies in Europe, which today have 10 or 12 or 15, will remain only 3-4 large, one from England probably, one American, one Russian or maybe two Russian. This situation that NIS in 5-6 years will indeed be a regional leader of many fears, I guess most of all some of the environments, which will thus lose their positions today. I'm sure this oil-gas deal is the best economic agreement Serbia has signed in the last 40 years, and I'm sure we'll just see the real results. I'd just like to explain that the pipeline, as well as any major project, cannot be built today, at once, that there are some preconditions. Bulgaria, Hungary, Italy, Austria, Slovenia, and France are participating in the pipeline. There is a North Stream, which is a contract between Russia and Germany. I'll mention that once again, I was already saying, the chairman of the North Stream Management Board, which builds a pipeline between Russia and Germany, is former Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. All these contracts have been signed in a very similar way, all these contracts are standard and all the countries in South Stream have prescribed practically the same pipeline contract. Indeed, I believe it is time to move from word to deed and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible... (President: Time. ) If possible next week, it implements oil agreements on the good fortune of all Serbian citizens and I am sure of the creation of thousands and thousands of new places. Repeat again, it's the best economic agreement in 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10136	The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic, and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10137	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call for a breach of article 104. Indeed, it is an insult to the dignity of this National Assembly when an international agreement, ratified in this National Assembly, and based on an interstate agreement between the governments of the Russian Federation and Serbia, is now being called into question and doubts that it will produce a legal fact. And that, when you look at the entire South Stream plan, only in Serbia, no other state is to pass through the South Stream has asked whether the South Stream will be built. We have all been monitoring in the media what pressures have been put on individual countries and individual governments that should be part of this South Stream and how these serious and responsible governments have resisted these pressures. Only in Serbia are political factors that need to spoil this job and show the weakness of the state, the weakness of Serbia, which should be the one that will bring down the South Stream and one major strategic project important for Serbia and important for the whole region. So there is no stronger guarantee than that in both countries the laws have become legal from this international treaty, that their signing was attended by the country's largest representatives and no one can doubt the seriousness of a large state, such as Russia, that the agreement will only be brought to ruin in the case of Serbia. Please, as MPs, send from here a message of seriousness to the state of Serbia and this National Assembly, a message that we respect and believe what we have ratified, we believe in our contractual partners, in the Russian Federation, and that we believe that everything that is defined here will be signed and realised as well as any contract that has been ratified in this assembly. So there is no stronger guarantee and they need no other guarantees other than what has become the law in this country after the ratification of a large number of MPs, including those who are now questioning the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10138	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10139	Of course, I'm referring to Article 27. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you're taking this very badly. Why are you taking a bad lead? I don't think this side here understood Saturday's prey. Tadic told you with his hand to the Democrats that you have control points. This is what someone just planted a checkpoint on you. At the first checkpoint, you passed like a zombie, at the second checkpoint, you saw yourself, he's full of prisons, and you're playing here and we're late for Europe. We're terribly late in Europe. I'm just surprised, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that you didn't take notice of Susani Grubjesic, who is not currently in the O.R., who also doesn't have an O.R., because if those in the government can't agree, what are we supposed to be here -- St. Sava here, to calm them down? Either you can or you can't. Why should the whole of Serbia suffer because Mladjan Dinkic thinks that under this oil-gas deal he went and Sartid to the Russians? I think Sartid left, too, because Sartid came to him as a change. If you compare the values, Sartid is change, because debt has been paid to Serbia. Please, let us take Mladjan Dinkic to America to fix their banking system, not to train here in a moment when the country is terribly late. I just can't wait for this global financial crisis to come to us, because if 3,000 euros in Europe, and then this crisis, falls to two thousand, let it fall to two thousand euros, everyone will be pleased. That's how you announced this global financial crisis. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, given that I am the least in the Parliament, so they wrote, I apologize for this time, but I don't understand how with so little time I drank the most fines in the National Assembly. That's what I'm telling you, citizens, that you don't read the papers and you don't believe the newspapers. If you were reading the newspaper, I wasn't in Belgrade, I didn't enter the Assembly. If you're watching TV, I'm sick of God too. It's our objective journalism. Now who's complaining about the obstruction of parliament? Susana Grubjesic, Nada Kolundži. Who's obstructing? The government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, I'm running, right now."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10140	Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10141	I think it's Article 104. I'm sorry. I didn't bring the Rules of Procedure. I didn't bring the wrong interpretation. We decided not to answer again and we won't answer again, but there are some thesis that are said here, which are not true. We have to answer that. First of all, the rest of them are not complaining about the oil-gas deal because their oil-gas agreements are good and our whole criticism has never been in the sense of building a pipeline in Serbia. It's a replacement thesis that tries to hide responsibility for what the agreement has agreed on behalf of our party. We have been criticising the government of Vojislav Kostunica since the beginning, then the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, for what the Serbian side has achieved in the agreement. The only question in our country is the possibility of building South Stream because no one else gave their oil industry up front, so they won't fail unless the South Stream is built or built fast enough, so to speak. Our question today is not against the construction of South Stream in Serbia, but the question is, when the agreement is being discussed, we said it is bad, it is not like any agreement signed by the very countries you mentioned: Bulgaria, Greece, Italy, every country. Our side didn't ask for enough, so it didn't get enough, taking care of the interests of the Russian side. None of these countries donated their oil industry, none of them in a joint venture to build a pipeline have a minority package, but the same package and influences decisions. We criticized it in the agreement. The agreement itself is not good and it is manifested today. If the sale of NIS or it was separated from South Stream, today we could not say anything, because the construction of South Stream in Serbia is a joint investment. Representatives of the government came here and told us, I banalize, but essentially -- we give NIS to get the South Stream. Now I ask you, since it is not certain that the South Stream will be, or it is certain that it will not be now because of the global economic crisis, even now none of us question the will to build that pipeline, because there is a purpose for it, but there is no money for it, and the deadlines will be broken. Everyone in this room knows that. We ask you: well, even though you voted to give NIS, do you have to give it five years before the pipeline arrives? (President: Time. I'm sorry, we won't be calling again if we can for a few more seconds. That is the essence of our criticism, and we fully agree to clear up all these things tomorrow. Thank you once again to the board presidents who are going to meet, but this situation has to be cleared up. It's not about Russia, it's only about Serbia and the Serbian government. All our criticisms refer only to the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10142	Mr. Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10143	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Minister, the last two hours in this assembly have been increasingly proving that we, I think, are a country of wonders. I've never heard the government argue with each other, that part of the opposition is at peace. I've never heard that when the government argues with each other, it's supposed to be debated here for two hours, and then we have to schedule some other committees to, my God, make peace. One here, for the sake of state interest, is at peace with the government, and the other performs as they perform. I have to admit, if I were funding them, I'd be very pleased, but I'm afraid, gentlemen, that the government has to go to the Assembly urgently and say whether it exists or not. It seems that both Mr. Todorovic and Mrs. Kolundzija have close ties. So, I'm inclined to say this time in front of this assembly that there's no dispute here. The government has been given a homework assignment from this assembly, i.e. 214 MPs, to implement the agreement. She should either do it or say she's not capable. There's no third. Let's stop this debate now... (Dragan Todorovic, from place: until committees are scheduled). There is nothing to schedule committees, Mr. Todorovic, that the government should go before this assembly if it believes there is a problem and says there is a problem, so that either we choose another government or we go to elections. The last few days have been observed here as some parties have been fighting to replace some other parties. You can see that. If you listen carefully, you'll see. (President: Time. ) Therefore, I am inclined this time to support Mrs. Kolundji's proposal to proceed according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10144	Thank you, Mr. Shami. According to the amendment, Mr Milan Avramovic reported. Here you go. You've got 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they're not some Quasi-Embassies in the O.R., so I'd like to answer them something, and I'm only going to do the amendment, because it's not worth paying attention to someone who's an MP on paper, not in practice. I referred to the amendment of my colleague, Radice Jocic, who asked that in Article 43, after the 2nd sentence, the "orderer can" be replaced by the words "orderer of the sea". Just for the sake of the public and the citizens, since this amendment was explained two hours ago, I would like to repeat the proposal of this member. Article 43: Essential requirements not included in the applicable technical norms and standards, which relate to security and other circumstances of general interest, must be applied and explicitly stated in the competition documentation. Then it is said, Article 2: ''The orderer may specify in the competitive documentation that the fee for using patents, as well as the liability for the violation of protected intellectual property rights of third parties, is borne by the bidder. ''So, this in the second position - the orderer can, it is intended to be replaced by words - the orderer of the sea. What is very unclear is the argument of the Government why the amendment is not accepted, so it is said: 'Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the area of protected intellectual property rights and the use of patents is governed by the regulations of these areas (the question is why the legislator of this law has placed another member that the orderer can do something, when these areas are precisely regulated as it is done, i.e. and other laws; pay attention now to the intellectual response of the Government), which leaves the contracting authority, within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, the possibility, and not the obligation to state in the competition documentation, that the compensation for the use of patents, as well as the liability for the violation of protected rights of the intellectual property of third parties is borne by the tenderer. ''So here the government has clearly answered the question why this second attitude should be deleted, not why it should be changed. I remind you of the first position of this member in which it is said that the essential requirements of general interest must be applied, and here the client can. To resolve the dilemma of what is possible, and what must be done, in order for the law to be precise, so that there is no abuse, that is. That you don't leave a hole in this law, as you left in the first Law on Public Procurement that I will now read to you, let's say, from one of the municipalities from which I come from, that's the Sava Wreath Community, a colleague wrote an amendment that something must, and it can't. What you can know is that it is not applicable, and what you must have already entered here, so you left a hole and a space for a manipulator, which is the basic means of funding some ruling political parties. So, now I'm going to read that time would be enough for me to get to know the citizens as soon as possible with the basic patterns of theft for the abuse of the Public Procurement Act. Since the municipality from which I come is destroying towards certain citizens who are not in the mood to pay for the racket, while other citizens from Dedin show exceptional sympathy when it comes to illegal construction, the municipal government team held a tender for public procurement in 2005, the destruction of illegally raised facilities and works performed and the removal of kiosks and other municipal facilities from public areas. Just remember this: remove the kiosk, and then I'll connect. As the most favourable bidder for the needs of destruction, Avantgarde's Belgrade company was elected. It's a yellow company that works in all three central municipalities of Old Town, Sava Wreath, Vračar. With this company, the municipalities concluded a contract with the planned value of destroying services of 5.7 million dinars. However, the budgetary inspection found that this tender was conducted and the contract was concluded in an illegal manner, contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Irregularities are seen in the fact that for this purpose, budgets were provided and appropriations amounting to only 500,000 dinars, not 5.7 million, while the annual public procurement plan did not even plan to do so. I will also inform you, time does not serve me, that in February 2005, the President of the Sava Venect municipality Tomislav Djordjevic launched a tender with an estimated value of 39.7 million dinars, for the delivery and installation of temporary facilities – kiosks, type of old Belgrade. That's why I told you to remember about taking down the kiosk, and now you're getting new kiosks. I guess you understand when as much as possible to open the procurement process to put more money in your pocket. The Commission selected the most favourable bidders in this tender, according to the criteria of the most economically favourable offer, the most favourable bidder for the company Termoengineering from Kragujevac and the final decision on the award of the contract, the president of the municipality, who in June 2005 concluded a contract for the delivery and delivery of a kiosk, a type of old Belgrade, with the company Termoengineering. During the control of this procurement, the inspection revealed that the public call from 'Politics' for participation in the tender was not the same as the competitive documentation available to bidders who took part in the tender. Watch out for that kind of abuse and it's also a hole in this law. In fact, it was found that the municipality did not specify, describe and evaluate in advance any criteria it intends to apply when selecting the most favourable offer. This was done in competitive documentation raised by bidders prior to participation in the tender. It was also found that the Municipality of Savski Venec sent a notice to the Official Messenger on the award of a public procurement contract 18 days earlier before the contract was even concluded. It clearly says that this commission also knew who it was going to give in to and who it was going to buy what. According to the regulations, this should be done within 40 days of the conclusion of the contract with the selected bidder. So, I have a few things to say, three minutes left. In June 2005, the president of the municipality, the famous one now re-elected in the new mandate, launched a tender for the design and upgrade of a pioneer centre on Kozujačka Street. It's this famous coffee Majdan, where these fancy youngsters sit from these new Western parties. The estimated value of these works was 10.9 million. This time it was found that the public invitation published in the Official Messenger did not contain the description and evaluation of the pre-set criteria, which the municipality intended to apply when selecting the most favourable bidder, while the competitive documentation contained the criteria. However, here are the online circumstances and great coincidences, in this tender none of the bidders responded, so the Public Procurement Commission proposed to President Djordjevic to make public procurement in the guessing process. That's what we talked about in the follow-up of the debate in principle, so we gave more examples of what the guessing procedure means, without prior publication of the tender. The president of the municipality, Tomislav Djordjevic, made a decision to launch a new, old guessing procurement procedure without prior publication, after which the Commission did its part of the job, and the president of the municipality concluded a contract with the Panningering company in Belgrade. In 2005, the municipality made a total payment of 8.7 million dinars to this labourer. The budget inspection has determined that it should not have been carried out because in the annual plan, the purchase of expenditure on this basis is expected to amount to two million dinars without tax. So you see the difference, 8,700,000 and 200,000. However, despite the fact that no reasonable assumption has been reached for the conduct of the tender, since it is not indicated that funds for this procurement have been provided in the budget, the president of the municipality has nevertheless concluded a contract with the contractor, which is contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, I have with me a report on the 2005 budget inspection, which says that according to this law and the gaps in this law, Hyde Park was built, as Majdan was built, that salaries were received 30% more than is specified by the decision, that kiosks were obtained, that objects were destroyed. If these things happen to a central municipality, in downtown Belgrade, in the capital of this Serbia, you can imagine how this yellow company, together with the coalition partners from G 17 plus, operates in local environments across Serbia, where budgets are far, far higher, because, in particular, the new statute of the city of Belgrade now provides for certain holes and definitions in which the drp-system can be elaborated on the general satisfaction of both this city and this in the municipality. Citizens of Serbia, don't believe this bill of law, because this strictly serves the people's "and wolf full and sheep in number".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10146	The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Milisav Petronijevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10147	I hear comments, people are afraid as soon as I get out of here that there's another job opening up. No, in the meantime, no one's arrested, but there's a tendency. I'm talking about an amendment to Article 44(2). Article 44 speaks of the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure, and then it is subject to mandatory conditions for participation, that is to say, it is also a European fashion in these laws, provided that the right to participate in the procedure has an offerer if it fulfils certain conditions. They shall provide that it is registered with the competent authority, that it is established for the exercise of the activity subject to public procurement, that within two years prior to the publication of a public call, it has not been given the judicial or administrative measures to prohibit the exercise of its activity, that it has settled the tax and other public duties in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, that it has a valid authorisation from the competent authority for the exercise of the public procurement, that it has the necessary financial and business capacity and that it has sufficient technical and personnel capacity. It is proposed that three more new points be added after this point 7) which says that the right to participate in the procedure is subject to an offer that fulfils, in addition to these seven conditions, the remuneration of employees, in accordance with the law and collective agreement which is in force; 9) to ensure that employees are provided with safety and health at work, in accordance with the law and collective contract in force; 10) that the employees are registered with mandatory social security. This is indeed an excellent amendment, and why it is not accepted to read and explain the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which at least corresponds to the Socially Responsible Government, and it seems to me that this is how you represented yourselves, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but this is not the first case where we have found that you are neither social, nor responsible, nor socially responsible government. In the light of the amendments, colleagues proposed that ''the introduction of these provisions in the draft law would have a basis in particular in the International Labour Organisation Convention No 94 on Working Clauses and Public Procurement, which aims to ensure that labour costs are not an element of the competitiveness of the bidders in the procurement process. On the other hand, the aim of this Convention is that the procurement procedure does not put pressure on employees in terms of earnings, i.e. to avoid the so-called social dumping, i.e. unfair competition of the employer on the burden of labour rights and working conditions. In accordance with the safety and health laws, the employer is obliged to provide the employee with all safety measures at the workplace. Also, the employer is obliged to apply to compulsory social security under the Employment Act. The amendment proposes the addition of Article 44 to ensure the safety of employees and makes it impossible for the employer, unless he has provided those conditions, to be legally an offerer in public procurement. ''This is indeed meaningful and logical, and in accordance with the Constitution and International Labour Organisation Convention No 94. So, there is no reasonable reason why this amendment would not be accepted, in particular, when I say, especially one part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which swore that one of the first tasks would be to amend the Labour Act or to adopt a new labour law, that it would insist on applying a collective contract, that workers' rights would be raised to one higher level. In the meantime, we have, for several days, not only now, but also earlier, an increasing dissatisfaction of employees, and this is reflected by gatherings in front of the presidency, in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in front of the Serbian Parliament. So clearly the government has not fulfilled what it has promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When the government was justified in this form, the main focus was on the social responsibility of the government. If you were truly a socially responsible government, then you would surely accept this amendment, and you say that the amendment is not accepted for the reason in Article 44, paragraphs 8 and 9. The draft law provides that the contracting authority may request evidence to confirm that the tenderer complies with the requirements of the applicable rules on protection of work, employment and working conditions. So this word “can, ” you know, is a simple deception, and no one will ever seriously pass a law in which the word “can ” will stand. The legal standard must be clear, concise, precise and cannot stand in the law “something can. ” The law is either binding or not binding. If the law says he can do something, then to whom, people, it can be believed that he will accept that “he can ” really apply it. How many employers apply a collective contract because they can? How many employers pay compensations for a warm meal and annual vacation regresses because the law says "can"? When the Labour Law was passed, we warned, do not put and do not hold the word “can ” in legal norms. What might leave an opportunity for someone who doesn't want to say that I can, but I don't have to, so I won't. When the Labour Act was passed, we spoke to you and warned that the Labour Law was passed for employers, not for employees, and you are now somewhere where you can contribute in this way or in this way to make up for this or some other law, you are, of course, still neglecting it, and you are still avoiding this law on public procurement just to get your eyes dirty again and those waiting for you in that car that's headed for Europe. I've already said and I'm going to repeat, you're just filling out the list so you can put in cartoons, this law passed, this bill, essentially nothing you change, nor do you apply the law. I will read to you only one piece in an article published in "The Great Serbia", the SRS list, is related to public procurement - public corruption. The title is "Tender-to-Snatcher." This article was written by Ivan Ninic, all of you known and known to the entire Serbian public for revealing crime and corruption in the Belgrade High School Home, as a high school student. Here's the data, among other things, I can't read it all, but the other day you had all "Great Serbia" in your hands, it was published in November this year. I've seen you read this, I assume you've read this, too. But for the sake of the general public, I'll read it. "According to the available data, the value of last year's public procurement was about two billion euros." Why am I linking this to what you didn't accept? Just to imagine how much that would be resources that wouldn't go anywhere, but employees would benefit from that. So, two million euros is the value of public procurement, but according to it -- based on available data. "However, it is estimated that the value of public procurement exceeds two billion euros and that it is almost twice as high, because a large number of public procurement suppliers, about 10,000 of them, according to the Public Procurement Authority (so nothing by heart, all based on data and fictitious data) did not deliver an annual report." That's what the Public Procurement Administration says. The question to you, which results from this, what are the legal entities and what are the consequences of them not delivering an annual report to the Public Procurement Authority? Will there be any consequences? If he won't, does that mean no one has to file that report and they don't care? "The public procurement financed by the remaining two billion euros has been left out of the regulatory procedure established by the Public Procurement Act (this law still in force until this one is adopted). The reason for such a thing is obvious, and it is hidden in the fact that the state is unable to control and record the total turnover of financial transactions resulting from more than a thousand public procurement contracts, as concluded daily in Serbia." Guys, this is so much money that it's just amazing. "This data, as well as data from which there are currently 12,000 orderrs in Serbia and 80,000 bidders who annually conclude around 250,000 public procurement contracts, undoubtedly suggests that corruption is most reflected in the sphere of public spending of taxpayers' money through a public procurement system." It's good to hear this from the citizens of Serbia. It is good to hear you who represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia here. This is good to hear that you would take certain steps to apply the Public Procurement Act. That's what I told you this morning. You're free to pass the law. We also told you in 2002 when the Law on Public Procurement was passed, so in 2003 when it was changed, so in 2004, then in 2005 – every time you changed the law we turned your attention, apply the law you have. It's not a law issue, it's a law issue. The problem is that she can handle the law, she can do it without the law, she can do it without the law, no one's missing hair from her head. Someone's upholding the law, someone's not sticking to it. The difference is that whoever doesn't comply with the law gets rich in person, whoever follows the law is probably as rich as possible. But the problem is that the state is doing nothing that those who don't comply with the law have to answer. The law on public procurement is, you know, a source of corruption. Public procurement is the largest source of corruption and crime, and that, we have seen today, based on those two vacant jobs in Zrenjanin, because of those arrests, is done at the top of the government, at the top of local self-government, in public enterprises, and mostly where they are, not mostly, but in all cases, where officials and presidents, or directors of public enterprises from the DS, are from the G17 Plus party. And it is the pain of the Serbian state and until it is cleared up, it will be the same when this law is passed. No less corruption and no less crime will be within the public... (President: Time. ) procurement only because a new law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10148	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Milicevic, Milisav Petronijevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Milisav Petronijevic. I'm sorry, I didn't understand that you wanted to follow the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10149	Thank you very much. Dear Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have called, Your Honor, before explaining the amendment to Article 44. The bill, given that you have already announced 45, does not bother me to at the same time, within the time I have, explain both, and thus save the congregation time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues Dejan Radenkovic, Djordje Milicevic and I have submitted, on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, an amendment to Article 44. Proposal for a law on public procurement, and now I'm going to say 45. The proposal for a law on public procurement, in particular that the two members on public procurement are connected in a way. In order for the public to understand what this is about, Article 44 discusses mandatory conditions for participation in the procurement process, and Article 45 speaks of proof of compliance with the conditions. Article 44 provides that the right to participate in the procedure shall be granted by the tenderer if: registered with the competent authority; if it is also established for the exercise of the activity which is the subject of public procurement; if, within two years prior to the publication of a public call, there is no judicial or administrative measure to prohibit the exercise of activity; if it has settled the tax and other public taxes in accordance with the regulations; it has a valid authorisation from the competent authority for the performance of the activity; it has the necessary financial and business capacity; it has sufficient technical and personnel capacity. There are seven points. In Article 45. The draft law determines which documents are required to prove that the tenderer fulfils these conditions. In Article 44, when it comes to mandatory conditions for participation, we have suggested adding points 8, 9 and 10, that this also be a condition for someone to participate in the procurement process. Point 8 - may take part in the procedure if the offerer pays the employees the receipts in accordance with the law and collective contract in force. Point 9) - if employees are provided with safety and health at work, in accordance with the law and collective contract in force. Point 10) - staff shall report to mandatory social security. These three points are exclusively related to the protection of employees' rights. I want to tell the public that this is a request from the Independent Union of Serbia. The SPS-JS parliamentary group assessed this request, supported and translated it into the amendment. I would also like to say that our parliamentary group absolutely supports the principles of the Public Procurement Act, and the principle of economicity and efficiency of the use of public financial resources, and the principle of ensuring competition among bidders, that the procedure cannot limit competition, and the principle of transparency, and the principle of equality of bidders. So, as the law insists on the competitiveness of the bidder and as the law insists that there is no unfair competition, there is no way that bidders can be discriminated in any way, and this amendment requires that there be no unfair competition with the bidder by burdening the reduction of labour rights and working conditions. No principle is questionable, on the contrary, is improving. This is important, especially in this time when a large number of workers, a large number of employees are otherwise concerned about how they will go through the conditions of the economic crisis in which we are. I believe that the government, number one, will face this issue, and I believe in the government's intentions that these issues will be resolved as a matter of priority. One way to solve it is this one. I agree that other regulations that can be applied here when it comes to collective contracts and mandatory social security and safety, and health at work, that others should follow and sanction it, but cannot participate in the procurement process if they do not comply with those rules. It is in Article 44 of the Law that you can order; no, it has to. It is in Article 57 of the Law that if the lowest price is suspicious, etc., it may further request. Why would he ask for more? After all, the offer doesn't have to have an unusually low price. One offer is possible not to be unusually low, more competitive than others, and its competitiveness is based on non-compliance with labour regulations. There's something else I'd like to point out. This doesn't cost, this doesn't slow down the process, so we don't have a problem with the principle of efficiency, etc. Why? See article 45, which speaks of the evidence needed to prove that it meets the requirements. There are five points, then another sixth, then the seventh point with five subpoints. Many of this evidence is obtained from the authorities. What we, supporting the Independent Union, are looking for, don't need any documents from any of the competent authorities on the side. Why? Article 122. The labour law provides for the obligation of a monthly record of profit payments in a firm signed by a director, authorised person, etc. Just put that in evidence, and here's the problem. The law also provides for mandatory primary insurance, even for a worker to, within 15 days or so. Let them apply the appropriate form of this species. Let her confirm that all measures of protection, safety and health at work have been taken and, please, meet the conditions. Otherwise, opportunities are created to create unfair competition on cargo and on the account of employees. I think whoever proposed this bill had no intention of questioning employees' rights, and I repeat again, we support the Independent Union in this request. It was said just a moment ago, that is also the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 94. It is that it is not yet ratified, but we are pursuing with the right of European laws and European conventions, therefore this Convention of the International Labour Organisation, and of course we are only allowing everyone to be equal, but not to create unfair competition by working on the needs of workers' rights. When it comes to salaries and profits not to be made, they say, that social dumping, and when it comes to compulsory insurance, because this country also cares that there is no work on black and can't be anyone more competitive because it has work on black, and when it comes to safety and health protection at work. All these are the reasons behind which we absolutely stand, we absolutely support and we believe that they must find places in Article 44 which speaks of the conditions that someone can participate in the procurement process and in Article 45 that speaks of evidence of the fulfillment of the conditions, or documents necessary to obtain. It doesn't cost anything, it's not slower, there's no extra cost, it doesn't need to be supplied by some other authorities, all these papers are by the employer obliged to have and run at the firm, it just needs to be attached. And not only when it is found to be a suspiciously low price, but then to ask. Then you don't know about those others if they're more competitive because they did it precisely on the burden of workers' rights. I call on the government to reconsider this amendment, respect the union's demands and accept our amendment. This law will be more complete and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10150	Once again, please accept my apologies. Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10151	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I support the amendment on behalf of the NS group of MPs from the SPS and in the voting day we will declare positively on your amendment. Since the amendments to the public procurement law are on the agenda, I ask you all to be patient, so you will see that in some way the legal and what I want to talk about within these 15 minutes, to which the NS parliamentary group is entitled, directly related to this law, and a little more to the face. The New Serbia parliamentary group submitted an amendment to the following contents on 31 October 2008: "The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of Articles 145 and 163(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we submit the technical correction of the amendment to Article 5. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia, which was introduced on 23.10.2008, under number 014 00-2428/08, so that the amendment reads - the positions 1, 2nd and 3rd amendments are deleted, and item 4 is amended and reads as follows: "Article 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Budget Fund for Sports Financing, Economic Classification 511 - Buildings and construction facilities, in column 6, the amount of 12 million entered, and in column 8, the amount of 100 million is replaced by 112 million etc." This, gentlemen of the Parliament, is the citizens of Serbia, the money the finance minister has accepted through our amendment as an integral part of the budget rebalance, i.e. the Budget Law. This is the money that should have been used so far to build a special - purposed playground, or disabled ones. I want to, and if I'm bored about this, I apologize, to remind you that in Serbia, right now, there are about 800,000 people living in various ways and degrees of disability. This amendment, as a technical correction, was made together with the finance minister, and I agreed to do something wrong, so I wouldn't take it off your cabinet, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of State, since you listed some figures there, it was most important for me to build this for the disabled. Because for days, trying to get through the people I know in the government, even some ministers I think are good and wonderful people, it doesn't matter that we're different politically, to realize this amendment, as an opposition MP. In response to all this, I received a paper on December 4th where it stands printed - the Service of the Finance Committee, therefore, of our Finance Committee in the Assembly, and it is said - in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, "The Official Messenger" No. This and this, the Youth and Sports Ministry, so to speak, says the funds provided by the 2008 budget rebalance can also be used to build new sports grounds for people with special needs. In a phone conversation, someone spoke anonymously on behalf of the Finance Committee, and this paper I received from a colleague from the DS, in a phone call from the Ministry of Finance's representatives in charge of the budget, we have the knowledge that the withdrawal, i.e. The use of these funds, it writes in large letters, depends on the submitted requirements and projects to build a playground for people with special needs of the Youth and Sports Ministry. The Youth and Sports Ministry should consider requirements and projects as soon as possible and deliver them to the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance, with a request for withdrawal of funds by 12 December 2008. Gentlemen, it's tomorrow. It's like we don't know what the departments are supposed to do. This is just a piece of their job description. So, from this pay phone, clean cheeks and pure souls, I proudly call it the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - The Department of Persons with Disabilities, Assistant Minister Vlada Pesic and Secretary of State Ljiljana Lučić, I call sports minister Markovic and I call Ms Dragutinovic's Finance Minister. The last or last time I asked this question on December 3rd, when Mrs Gordana Comic chaired. On that day, the president of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic's Assembly was not and on December 4th I spoke to her the same way, as I am telling you now. I was given the answer, and I hope that Madam President will not mind me, which shows that Mrs Comic, as chairman, has safely carried out her duty and referred to the minister of finance of the Republic of Serbia the following question: "On the basis of members 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we present to you a part of the stenogram from the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 3 December 2008, which highlighted a request for the notification of MP Miroslav Markevic, presented at the session. Please forward the notice to the National Assembly during the day. "I promised to go out every hour. Because we are all in the grip of time, because the budget is going, which I know is the budget, although I am an opposition MP, I know how important it is for all Serbian citizens. "According to the authority of the president, Secretary Veljko Odalovic" -- on this paper. As for our president, our chairman, our vice president and our secretary, they have done their duty. The next day, I received a letter, correctly, but I just don't like it being on the Latin, Madam President, where it says, "Dear Mr Markicevic, the assembly delivered this request yesterday. Today we repeat our request and insist on urgency. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. "To this day I have not received any response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's where a few questions are now being raised. First, whether the amendment submitted by the opposition MP, or the opposition group, as in this case was New Serbia, becomes part of the legislative proposal, whether it is valid, whether it is legally at the same level as the amendments of the ruling MPs, or MPs from the ruling coalition, or the government itself. It's about the law. I don't want to talk about law, because I'm not an expert, but I want to talk about cheeks. I have received dozens of calls these days from various associations of people with disabilities and citizens who support what I have started here and I want to say that I have understood this amendment as an amendment to all of us, all 250 MPs. I will read to you just one letter from the Association of Distrophysicians of the Moraviga County: "Dear gentlemen, by following the media and the work of the Assembly, we have come to know that the budget rebalance has adopted an amendment that approved 12 million dinars for the construction, i.e. the reconstruction of sports grounds for people with disabilities at the level of the Republic of Serbia. We are asking you to send a request before the New Serbia parliamentary group to the government or the resolution ministry to direct part of the funds, or two million, to the town of Cačka for the construction of a sports field for people with special needs. We note that we have all the accompanying documentation. On the territory of the Municipality of Čačak 1,653 people with disabilities are registered, so we need to build a sports field to carry out sports activities. In the hope that you will understand our problems, we thank you in advance. President of the Association of Distrophysicians of the Moravic District in Cačka, Mirjana Stanojevic. "Look at the second letter. There is a sports club that specializes in adapting sports grounds for people with special needs, or disabled people. They even have their own Olympics. I have to admit I haven't been informed enough about it, even though I've been trying all these years. I was shocked to see the Paralympics in Beijing, in that bird's nest, where there's also 100,000, and where people compete at 100 and 200 meters, and play basketball, and they know what the zone is and what's counter-attack in a wheelchair. If we have a right that we're healthy, tonight no one knows what's waiting for him tomorrow, he might become eight hundred thousand first. Do we have the right to treat these people like this? Why am I humiliated here as an opposition MP and my MP group has nothing to do with it, it's not a mistake, maybe it's the way to treat the opposition, that's what we've been doing for years, but how do I answer these people to this letter? The fact that you have not granted me an answer, where did the president of the assembly, the vice president of the assembly, from the ruling coalition, and there is no answer, what does that look like? I can understand today what it looks like, given what tomorrow's session is going on, how the ministers have different reasonings about some things and interpret some interstate agreements. We can conclude that they almost fought at the government. Then where are the disabled? What do they care about that? Is anyone thinking, has anyone received this document, I'm interested in it? Is this budget rebalance? I listened to you on one show, where you spoke three thousand euros, whether it would be 50,000 euros, I think it was on B92. As some colleagues have acted, believe me, you seem very safe and professional. There were stories about the deposit, if you remember, so you mocked the opposition, not you, but some of them that it shouldn't be increased, as some in 92 said the crisis would help us, that we would show some of our advantages in the financial crisis. Now I doubt after this for your expertise. Did you read this budget rebalance? I'd like to, but you don't have the right as Secretary of State, but he has the right of Madam Minister here to come out and say what he's done, what the government has done, and I've listed which one. Maybe your ministry could, too, see if there's anything planned for disabled people in this country at all. My humble proposal, as far as I knew and could, I gave it here in writing, and it was passed, and it became part of the law. To answer nicely what you've done, since we've been reported here, I didn't know the vault was working until December 12th, so far they could withdraw the funds, and that could have been nice. Why did I tell you in the beginning that this had something to do with the Public Procurement Act? To determine some six cities, that playground costs about two million, then it's a small purchase, it can speed up the course and not embarrass everyone together in front of people. Believe me, at least 58 people with disabilities are expecting, I told them I'd be talking to them between 5:00 and 6:00, since it was a debate, we know what, it's a top topic. But I'm telling you, this is a top topic. When, in Serbia, ministers, MPs all pay great attention to such topics, from the heart and soul, it will mean that we are making progress both as people and as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10152	The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10153	Before I start with this amendment, I have to warn the viewers, don't read the newspaper for a living, especially not "Evening News," because they have some journalist D.M. Stevanovic, the poor guy was probably paid to attack the Assembly, so he wrote some things here. When I was a kid, when we steal the chalk from school, and we go home, we stop by where those tarabs are, so we write all kinds of things -- the names of crazy are everywhere, but this is a reporter who didn't have that phase. Yes, Srdjan, I have to tell you, he didn't have that phase, because at the time I was a kid, so it's said he can write anything on the tarab, but no one takes the tarab home. But now this new time has come, so there's a newspaper. Don't accidentally take the paper. This specimen wrote that I was in the O.R. for an hour and 22 minutes, and I was sick of both God and the people of this pay phone. I think I talked here three hours a day. An obvious example, evidence that the newspaper is lying, so watch the RTS, the Second Channel, tonight at 22:00 in particular, will be very interesting, for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know the truth about what's been going on on in the territory of the former SFRY since 1991, including today and what's going to happen tomorrow. Before I start with this amendment, Mr. Batic, I'm in a lot of trouble. Why do I tell Batic he's in a lot of trouble? I'm in a lot of trouble because I get the impression that viewers and even those who report this bill tomorrow and today's debate will conclude that I'm an anti-European type, that I'm a Eurosceptic. I have to admit, I'm not a Eurofanatic, but it just seems a little strange to me, in 2002, Bozidar Djelic jumped here, so he did jump here, the way to Europe, this law solves everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10154	Please take care of the formulation when you talk about the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10155	No, you didn't understand me. I told Bozidar Djelic, I didn't say anything offensive, I didn't mention the Constitution. He jumped in the euphoria, telling that law solves everything. No problem, 60% of every dinar in this country is in a public income and public expenditure system. That's what I'm talking about. The state, both around her and around her business, is making a lot of money. You listened to the data, I don't want to repeat it now, two billion euros is in the public procurement system. The law regulates how two billion euros can be spent as legally as possible. It means about like this, this law guarantees that all those who are contracting, public enterprises, states, that we don't go any further, according to this law when they implement this procedure, then it's absolute certainty that they bought the highest quality for approximately the cheapest money and wouldn't let anyone steal it. That's the purpose of this law. There's no fifth, no sixth goal. At least three targets should be achieved. In 2002, I didn't trust Bozidar Djelic, most of them believed, I must say, and so the law was passed. Let me explain to you what the majority was like. There were about two-thirds of the left-hand side and half of this right-hand side. However, when the law began, it turned out that members did not communicate with each other. Then the people who need to apply the law had to go to the Ministry of Finance to see what it was about. When they went there, they saw the wrong translation. It was a Slovenian version. The one when he pulled out, confused the drawers, pulled out a Slovenian version that was badly translated. This Croatian was on the other side. Then it started to make things right later, to give some interpretations, to sort something out. And now, if that's something European, now I don't know what kind of law this is. I don't know why we're passing this law. I get the impression that this law wants to disfigure a good European law. A good European law has also been amended because of foreigners, in order to protect our economy, etc. It's all right, but now that you're making such a nice law, you're changing a good law with this law, there's something wrong with me. I don't know when the truth was on the agenda, whether it was delivered in 2002 or now. Maybe it was wrong back then, but I don't know what the guarantee is that he's not wrong today. This law is the same as the previous one, just legalizing the domination of those who have a handle on the cash register where big money is found. This law only legalizes the drop-system. Under this bill, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted a large number of amendments and, I must admit, a large number of amendments have been adopted. Because the amendments were made by people who knew this matter, who were working on these jobs, and by the state authorities, and by local self-government, by public enterprises, so they gathered to redecorate what was bothering them in their business every day. They have a problem with people implementing this law. In fact, this law is the second stage of the drop system. You who are in power will now understand what's going on. In the previous law there were also real estates, as well as good that falls under this law. Now the real estates are out. Why are the real estates out? Because when they laundered the money for eight years, they could do it best over real estate and became the owners of a large number of real estates, there are whole floors. You know, in Belgrade license Pe plus four, in the field of Pe plus six, two floors. And it's rumored, now I don't want to talk about what names are usually named, I won't, Batic, let me say, punish me when I say, no one's running a trial against you, no one's running a procedure against me in The Hague and here because of what I say about a pay phone, I'm just a scared man, I'm doing this job, I'm racing who's going to arrest me. Well, then I'm sure. So, now that the immovableities are going to be out of this system, public enterprises, the state authorities are free to buy it with a direct contract. From who? From M.M., M.N., C.C. from the ruling parties that made the government, which of course spreads to the capillaries, not to the local community, but to the local self-government units. It's the main job that's done. They'll accept these legal-technical amendments, but they're essentially not going to accept. Just to let you know, Mr. Ilic, these are yours already beginning to print the law. Otherwise, this law has already been printed in the form of a manual. So there is no influence of the Assembly, which will be adopted by the amendment or not. The law has already come out and they're already making seminars. This law on public procurement. Who's giving a lecture? So maybe those who print, which give professional opinions, etc., they already know what the text is. But don't be surprised. We had this in the finance law of political parties. At that time was the first major conflict between Zivkovic and Djelic, because Djelic counted that the law had passed and printed, started with the circulation, however, the amendment was adopted here, so from that one he went to the Supreme Court and was angry that the amendment could be adopted and his entire circulation was broken, which is what I'm talking about. They do it without public procurement, they don't ask you, they finish the job. Each day, consultations are held on the application of the new law on public procurement. Well, you don't know that, do you? Look, take this Internet. It's not like you don't have electricity at home, is it? When you go to work, turn on the Internet, and watch those who offer counselling, you will see, new law on public procurement, counseling, go to this counseling, you will faint, they know exactly what is adopted, and what is not adopted. You're a little bit of a lawmaker here. It's far out there, they've already finished it, so you know. What's this next operation? The next operation is that in this open procedure, or if they go to this second procedure, there will be several selected companies, remember what I told you, and the company chosen will receive an exclusive right whenever it comes to getting a job, and these other right ones will be bidders, they will be subcontractors with that main supplier. I'm telling you in advance, you don't have to believe, and I told these guys that that rock could become a rock, and I said, just smile, you'll see what happens, and it happened that way. Remember these two things that Zoran Krasic told you. Major crime in the traffic of immovable property purchased by the state, public enterprises, local self-government, etc. means all those who fall under this law, and count that in large enterprises, only selected companies will get jobs, even companies that have no production of it. Someone can put a condition there to have that production, etc. No, he met the conditions under Article 44, proved himself to be Article 45, gets a job, and then he'll look for these other subcontractors and finish the job. And this major supplier doesn't even have to have production, he doesn't have to do anything, he just needs to have good paperwork, and he always has a few percent commissions from getting a job, but he has to share with the client. There's a problem with the client when there's more in that chain. I'm running out of time, but I need to draw attention to you now why you didn't accept the scoring, but you went to these balance sheets. Now that I'm about to be warned, just to let you know, the purpose of my amendment was to reduce in Article 45, point 1), from that great text only to the text of the scoring, that is, for newly established producers, the report of the National Bank of Serbia. Not to complicate the balance sheet now, so there's a report, etc. So we're just trying to get it down to the scoring. Here, let me show you what that scoring looks like. Here's the scoring, I'm not going to go into the details now, and in the end there's something, please let me tell you, there's even this probability of bankruptcy, up to 1.81 is a high probability, the gray zone is from 1.81 to 3, above 3 is a small probability. This particular example had a credit rating, it was in frame B, otherwise it was 4,91 for 2006, a good company, it also has a report at the end, etc. They do not accept it and thus show that they do not accept and respect, in fact, the National Bank of Serbia and their Directorate for Registers and Forced Payments of the Department of Registers, and this rating of credits. I don't know why the state wouldn't accept something done by a state body, as far as financial operations are concerned, etc. I don't read this scoring, there's a number of employees, a report, total income, everything, everything. They don't accept that. They do not accept, but in one provision they say it does not exclude the possibility that they can and can provide for competitive documentation for those who participate in the competition for this. Now I seem to have lost your explanation here, your explanation for the rejection of this amendment is really funny. Now, since this time is running out, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will report later, to give a mild suggestion to the people of the prosecution and other authorities, to know in advance what they have prepared, how it will now legalize what should not be legalized in the public procurement process... (President: Time. I'm sorry. And of those two billion that were told by Verica that the total volume of traffic in public procurement, count 35% end up in somebody's pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10156	The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic first appeared, and then Mr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10157	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for article 225 and apparently some things are resolved when it comes to this crisis within the government. No matter how much they tried to hide it, to transfer to the opposition, how the opposition is guilty of this obstruction, it is obvious that the problems are so great that we are expected to see some major political changes when it comes to the government, or when it comes to the political scene in Serbia. Today, December 11, 2008, Mladjan Dinkic sent an open letter to the public. In line with Article 225, I also inform MPs and the public that the vice-president of the Serbian government and the economy minister has withdrawn today from the post of president of the task force to conduct negotiations with Gazprom on the conclusion of contracts that would implement an energy agreement with the Russian Federation in the area of gas and oil economy. State Secretary Nebojsa Ciric has retired as head of the technical negotiating team, and Branislav Zec, executive director of the Privatisation Agency, has stepped down as a member of the technical negotiating team. The essence of this open letter is the most difficult indictment of DS and Boris Tadic. The undisputed letter stems from Boris Tadic and DS seeking to deceive Serbian citizens. It says, read it. Why are you nervous? I am not saying in any single word that what Mladjan Dinkic says is true, but that I would not read to you the whole letter, since it is a little longer, is the most uncontestable charge that Boris Tadic and DS make of trying to deceive Serbian citizens. Obviously, there is no possibility of you being right and Mladjan Dinkic. Do you think this is true? Mr. Milivoevich, are you moving your head in a sign of approval or do you think it's not true? (President: Mr. Todorovic, bring the end. I'm done. So what's shown in the open letter is either true or not true. I don't want to be an arbiter. Here you are invited to answer what Mladjan Dinkic wrote. You had opportunities in today's discussion, the basics were presented, to hear what Mladjan Dinkic claims. Ladies and gentlemen, not wanting to put myself on either side, I just want to know exactly what this is. Then it comes to some normal and logical end -- that one side is not telling the truth. If one side is not telling the truth, then the logical conclusion is that there will be some changes. (President: Mr. Todorovic, time. Thank you. I would like to ask you, for the public, because the public is extremely upset with this letter, but in the SRS parliamentary group, the phones ring all the time and ask "what makes Lucky nervous" to get information about what's going on in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10158	I give my word to Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10159	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the government, I must present what is an open letter to the public of its vice president, Minister of Economy and Regional Development. It is not the first time we have listened to qualifications and called on the Assembly to condemn or not condemn something hidden behind the paper they are waving at. It's not the first time we've pulled papers out of our pockets that say something. Therefore, as a member of the government, I must read the letter and leave it to those to whom it is directed, i.e. Serbia's public opinion on what's true and what's not. There is no reason for us to put both sides in court for something directed to the public of Serbia. Let me read the whole letter. "As a great fighter and optimist, I am trying to do my best for Serbia with my team. However, the success of any state project requires, above all, support in the country. For example, I recall the successful sale of Mobtel to Norway's Telenor for over 1.5 billion euros, which brought a record surplus of two billion euros to Serbia's budget, with other successful privatisations, allowing for the launch of the NIP, the payment of part of the external debt and significant growth of salaries in health, education and other works. That's the result my team achieved when we had full political support for professional work. Negotiations on contracts that would regulate the implementation of an energy agreement with Russia have been accepted in the faith that I can draw the maximum for my country and that I will have full support for my colleagues from the government and the public. During the negotiations, however, I realized that our party was the first to deny my support. Each of my insistence on protecting Serbian interests was first welcomed to a knife in Serbia. Instead of support, I got a dirty campaign in the paper. The more I insisted on defending Serbia's interest, the stronger the media lynch. There were more and more negative and untrue texts coming out about me and my associates. Yet, all these attacks and the denial of domestic support did not discourage me. On the contrary, they gave me a stronger motive to fight even more for Serbia's interests. As is known, the parliament's decision, Serbia has accepted a Russian proposal to, in order to build a master's pipeline through Serbia and modernise the gas storage plant in Banatski Dvor, sell NIS without a tender, with a direct contract. In this regard, the Serbian negotiating team unanimously proposed to the Russian foreign contract model on 31 October 2008 which, in accordance with the energy agreement, would at the same time sign contracts for all three projects individually, with legal and financial guarantees for their implementation in practice. Today, however, the Russians accept to sign only one binding NIS purchase contract, with a reason that only two years from now, they will surely know whether the South Stream pipeline will be built at all. They suggest that only a contract for NIS and non-binding papers be signed immediately for the other two projects. However, if he only signs a contract for the NIS, Serbia loses any financial and legal guarantees that it will ever get a highway pipeline. The delusion is that these guarantees only provide us with an energy agreement. He does not foresee any deadlines for the construction of a pipeline through Serbia and the modernisation of the Banatski Dvor. It is in the spirit of agreement that, for example, the pipeline is built in 2152, unless otherwise specified by a binding contract. So the Russian side wants NIS right away, but does not want to sign a binding contract guaranteeing Serbia's construction of a master's pipeline, which is why the whole energy deal is signed. The biggest paradox is that, in fact, the Russian side does not adhere to the energy agreement, and that it is trying, with the help of the work of our public, to blame Serbia. Today, the Serbian government has rejected the previously established proposal for a negotiating team to insist on the simultaneous signing of all three binding contracts: for NIS, the South Stream pipeline and the Banatski Dvor warehouse. At the same time, 11 members of the government, two of them were abstentioned, the alternative proposal of the economy ministry said that, in the event of a contract being signed for the NIS alone, it would insist that "Gasprom" be immediately transferred to the ownership of 25% of NIS actions, with majority management rights in Serbia's hands, while the remaining 26% would be transferred to him only after the signing of a binding contract on the construction of pipelines, so within two years. In my team's view, only in this case would Serbia provide a single package stemming from the energy agreement. Given that our proposals have been rejected, I decided to withdraw myself, along with my team, from the negotiations, because we do not have the country's support to do what is best for Serbia, and Serbia has no firm legal and financial guarantee that it will receive a highway pipeline. The responsibility for the economic consequences of the new negotiating platform will have to take over someone else. Mladjan Dinkic". Ladies and gentlemen, I had a moral obligation, both as a member of the government and as a member of the party to which Mladjan Dinkic belongs, as someone who deeply believes in the truthfulness of all this and the correctness of the platform represented by Mladjan Dinkic, to read you a letter in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10160	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mrs. Susana Grubjesic, although I am obliged to inform you that there has been no direct transmission since 19.55 hours. There's no direct transmission, there's a delay, there's gonna be a delay in the transmission. Let's estimate, if we're not going to work on the agenda, here's only Mr. Batić and Mr. Todorovic answered, and I think we'll finish tonight or if you want to work on the agenda with a delayed transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10161	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Madam Minister, this controversy is going to sound really paradoxical, someone perhaps cynical, but I support what Mladjan Dinkic has stated in his open letter to the public. I have been against this ratification since the debate was held in this House on the ratification of the gas agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the G17 plus, you voted for the ratification of the gas deal. After the battle, our people say, spear to thorns. I really don't think we have enough guarantees that the proposed agreement is in Serbia's interest. However, if you will, not only an etemological or Semantic analysis of what is stated in this text, but a simple logical interpretation of what is written here, Mladjan Dinkic said he has no support in the country he works in. Is there a minister to say that? Is he entitled to say so and remain in the post of minister? He goes on to say, too, that responsibility for the economic consequences will have to be taken over by someone else. But to simplify the story. Supporting this gesture, regardless of how much I disagree with what Mladjan Dinkic says and does, I believe it is his obligation that if the government of the Republic of Serbia still sign an agreement on the sale of NIS, then resign as vice-president and minister in the government. It's one of the only logical traces of events if we analyze the messages in this letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10162	Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Only you, please, no direct transmission, this will be transmitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think my previous exposure and the information I gave under article 225 was only in one single goal, to tell and inform the public what happened, not entering into who's right at all, who's wrong. There are two options here, for Mladjan Dinkic to stay in the government, and for these to withdraw or vice versa. I don't see any other developments. The title says -- the government against Dinkic on NIS. You can hardly explain to anyone that such a heavy accusation brought by Mladjan Dinkic, in any way that we can assume that this government can survive in the same composition. It just doesn't make sense. Or you can get over it. Today, you take the stand, the hardest charges against each other, but then you settle down through some other stuff and tomorrow, Jovo again, like nothing happened. What Mladjan Dinkic claims, if true, he cannot stay one day longer, I wonder why he has not already resigned and left the government. It may take another MP to get that required majority. It's possible, possibly, possibly, I'm not saying at all, I'm just making logical assumptions. Why do you serve as a reserve reserve? Why don't you make a move, not wait until it's done, but you hand it over and no more, almost, come on Boris to Europe alone, we won't, because you cheat, you deceive Serbian citizens, you abuse the trust that your citizens gave you in the election. Then things are completely clear. Now, this may seem to me, I'm sorry, Mr. Batic, no matter what you, on my surprise, support Mr. Dinkic, to tell you the truth, I was surprised, but well, you might think, the moment has come, he's enlightened himself, so he said a few lines of truth. How is it possible then that Mladjan Dinkic is still in that government? It's just amazing. Explain to me, Mr. Batic, how it is possible with such heavy accusations that man remains in government. (President: Time. ) So we expect the government to provide us with really true information, because Serbian citizens are upset with this, they don't know what's going on. Do we have a government or not? What's going on with the gas deal? It is time for you to inform us on all facts regarding the gas agreement, to the board or at the committee's session tomorrow. Thank you and forgive the extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-11-0.u10164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the delayed term will be the transfer of this piece that went after 19.55 hours, I would just like to tell you that we are initiating a joint session of the Privatisation Committee and the Industry Committee. The ministers confirmed their arrival, and Mr. Skundric, and Mr. Dinkic. So both the public and I will inform you that we will have the original information tomorrow at 13.00 hours at the joint session of those two committees. I thank you for today's cooperation in the part where we were constructive. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the electronic system's parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. SlobodanIlic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Živana Bogutincevic, adviser to the finance minister. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (single) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanović. The government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Radeta first reported to the Rules of Procedure, and then she has the word Mr. Dragan Stevanovic.
