ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11002	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 122 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We would like to inform you that it is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, National Assembly Chairman Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, called for today's session to be attended by members of the government and Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Office. We continue to work on a joint principle and uniform search on draft laws under points 1 to 9 of the agenda. We have an application for the word of MP Susana Grubjesic. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. I am also asking the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Defence, since I assume that the public is upset by what happened, what we have learned about the Ministry of Defence, that is, the conflict between the Chiefs of Staff and the Minister of the Army. You know, I really understand you to a certain limit, and I can't understand you beyond that limit. I really can't convince you that what happened so far has never happened. It's clear to all of us that General Pride is in no way doing this on his own, I suppose it's clear to everyone, no matter what you laugh at. It is clear that there is some signal that has come from someone to Zdravko Poš that does not go to an annual reception that is common, traditional, and not only does he not go, but that by his order and the largest number of generals do not go to that reception. As for the defence minister, I agree that he does not deserve to be in that place and I agree that he should be boycotted, but I am not convinced that Zdravko Poš is the one who should decide. That already smells like stuff, and I'm guessing you don't want it because you're in a hurry to Europe, so I guess we're not going to go to Europe under a military vest, because this is obviously the pressure on civil power. We ask ourselves, "Who can stand behind this?" Did that come after that information that Shule was building a ramp in JUL's parking lot? I don't know if it's a matter of whether or not it's some other affair that you're not discovering, but announced by Mladjan Dinkic, did the warrant not come from Boris Tadic?- I'm sorry. It seems again that internal problems within the Democratic Party pose a threat to the functioning of the state without the public having a single word on it. Or maybe she mediate something completely third. This attack may also be aimed at Boris Tadic, as well as at Defence Minister Sutanovac. I'm sorry, I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11004	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 86th and 204th. The Rules of Procedures that were injured yesterday. It's very funny, obviously there's a problem in the ruling so-called coalition, you showed that when you voted on the law in the field of justice, when you had both the first and the second wildcards. One gave you quorum, and the other one was not there so that you could vote against the laws that the majority in the congregation were apparently against. What's the problem? The problem is that we still don't know if the Serbian government has a majority in the Serbian Parliament. We, when we finished discussing the government, or mistrust of the government, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said this way: "According to Article 86(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. ''You have inserted the cards and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic notes: ''I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 123 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. less than 126 MPs are present, so there are no conditions for deciding. I'll let you know later on about the decision-making day. Tomorrow at 10:00, we'll get back to work. It's December 19th. "On December 20th, we did not continue to work because they were allegedly sick MPs from the ruling coalition. All newspapers, of course, are laughing at the expense of this finding, as it is clear to everyone that it was not any disease, but that agreement had to be reached in order to pass the Law on the Network of Courts. You have succeeded with those with whom you have created an unconstitutional state in Serbia, with those with whom you have made a Assembly that does not exist anywhere in the white world, especially in modern democracies. You know it well, and you've shown why you did what you did, that you have it when you need it. The question I refer to Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic: when will we be later informed of the decision-making day and when will it be the day to decide, because we want to clarify whether, after that debate, the government deserves the majority of the assembly or not? On Thursday night, you showed that the government does not have a majority, that there are only 123 of you to support the government, and it is necessary, as Djukic-Dejanovic said, 126.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11006	No injuries to members 86 and 204. The applicant for a vote of no confidence is hoping to raise 126, because it is necessary for one who submits a request to a 126 vote of MPs in order for the government to be voted against, unlike constitutional, business and legal opportunities, when a request for trust is sought by the government itself, and then the ruling majority with their 126 minimum votes or supports or does not support the government. An application for mistrust implies that applicants believe they can collect 126. The mistrust session showed that they couldn't raise 126. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 27. I'll be back to my first presentation on the Ministry of Defense later. This explanation by Mrs. Comic gave me the creamworth to present some information and, unlike Hope Kolundzhija, I will present the actual data that is related to all the parliamentary groups, especially one person I highly appreciate and respect, and which I think is in some way abused in the conduct of the Serbian Parliament session. You remember that this is where the head of the Parliamentary Group of Mrs. Kolundzija came out and said only a minute of the SRS Parliamentary Group, related to the release and notification of the Rules of Procedure, and then she presented only the information that the SRS had reported and spent 75.39 minutes reporting to the Rules of Procedure, not providing any other information, although she knew it, although she did, but they were "yellow". They are looking only to abuse and use some information to help them at the moment to shock someone or to start what continued in the paper with the headlines "SRS is wasting time in the Serbian Parliament", etc., not taking care that there are parliamentary groups within the ruling coalition that have spent more time on the Business than other opposition parties. I'm not going to state their data, I think it's the right that the Rules of Procedure gives us, and that, in accordance with that, everyone estimates how they're going to work. I'll tell you the information that's very interesting. He says: “In connection with your second question, that is, how long did the Vice President of the National Assembly of Gordana Komic spend time explaining to the MPs at the same time,” the answer is 11 hours and 30 minutes. There is your conscious intention to obstruct the work of the Serbian Parliament. I respect Mrs. Comic, so we understand each other. She just works, how she works, this way. She believes that she should explain that to every MP who reports in the Rules of Procedure and explains it, but you know it, and therefore insist that Mrs. Comic conducts meetings of the Serbian Parliament, counting on any occurrence of the Rules of Procedure to be spent as much time explaining that the Rules of Procedure has not been broken. This is the data that best says that you are essentially obstructing the work of the Serbian Parliament, thereby obstructing both Serbia and Serbian citizens and not allowing them to live better, although you are reportedly standing up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11008	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. Reporting from the MP's injuries is a selection of parliamentary groups that make up a strategy for performances in the Assembly. My explanation is an obligation. The difference is huge. The obligation under Article 100 is that the chairman is obliged to explain that, if the MP wants to talk about the injury of any member of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that this has been spent on this autumn session for 11:30 minutes tells me personally that there is a need to explain how the Rules of Procedure is used and abused. So, I repeat, the use and abuse of members of the 100th is the choice and strategy of parliamentary groups, which is legal and legitimate, and the answer is the responsibility of the chairman. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11009	And I, on the basis of Article 100(4), Mrs. Comic, fully agree with you. I also pointed out that you have a need and it is not at all controversial, but I am talking about those who abuse this need, Mrs. Komic, and these are your MPs, because they are aware of your needs and therefore somehow put you in that place, or insist that you chair, to show that need, and to spend time in the Serbian Parliament on some things that are not in place. I will remind you, Mrs. Komic, that they have asked you some questions that you have not given answers as you have not answered once about breaking the Rules of Procedure, etc. There's no dispute here between me and you or between the SRS and you. We appreciate and respect your way of working. I'm talking about the DS intention, which abuses it, and the whole time it's trying to accuse the opposition parties, primarily the SRS that it's supposed to be us who are slowing down the work of the Serbian Parliament. Mrs. Comic, take an example that is the freshest, we started discussing the budget yesterday. You know how it works. The budget, under the Budget Implementation Act, was to be adopted by the Government on 1 November, I believe that you are in the government, that you would in no way allow the budget to be adopted on December 7th and that on December 8th, it would only arrive at the Serbian Parliament. I'm sure you wouldn't let the budget debate begin first, then call the heads of the parliamentary groups, allegedly agreeing on a session. By the end of the year, we have a few working days left, and now you're calling us to make a deal. It really doesn't make sense. You've been playing with little kids for days. This only serves you because you are facing public information funds and to say, here again, these radicals, again this opposition does not allow the Serbian Parliament to work, does not allow the adoption of the budget, so we will move on to temporary financing. There will be no pensions, no social benefits, no state in chaos, just for that, no other reason. Basically, every step of the way, it turns out you're absolutely incapable of doing anything. Thank you and forgive this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11010	People's MP, there's no damage to article 100. Obviously, we did not listen carefully to the explanation of previous reporting and the desire to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I was talking about the obligation to respond by explaining every request from the MPs who want to talk about the injury. I'm not talking about my needs, nor am I. About my obligations to which I am bound by article 100, of course I will. As for your remarks on the budget delay, I think we have an agreement on whether or not it is insufficient, Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic apologized to the National Assembly yesterday to explain why there was a breach of the budget calendar. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants the Assembly to declare its injury to the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11011	Mrs. Komic, member of Article 86(5), says – "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, when adopting the minutes from the previous session and setting up the agenda, as well as at the constitutional session of the National Assembly, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. ''Article 204(4), which speaks of mistrust of the government, says: ''Right after the debate on confidence of the Government, the president of the National Assembly schedules a voter's day. ''Mrs. Comic, I would ask you, instead of explaining, to quote to me a member who writes that it is necessary for him who seeks no confidence in the government to provide the quorum, and where it is necessary for him who forms the government to provide the quorum. I would ask you to find that difference between the government and the opposition in this Rules of Procedure and read it to me. I know perfectly well that you are making a distinction between the opposition MPs and the MPs of the ruling coalition. You show it at every step and you showed it just before when counterpart Dragan Todorovic spoke. Please read where you wrote it. You still don't have the strength to prescribe it. Perhaps in that future Rules of Procedure that you plan to prohibit, at all, the MPs of the opposition from speaking at all, to express their views and views of their political parties. We'll talk about it when it's on the agenda. I think I know this Rules of Procedure by heart and you know well that I know him. I know I'm interpreting him as a lawyer and I'm sure I'm an excellent interpreter, no matter what you think. I'm convinced you're intimately convinced that I'm right. I couldn't find anywhere that you just claimed that the opposition would demand a no-confidence vote to the government and provide a quorum. We insisted on discussing the government so that we could finally talk about the problems at KIM, the problems of corruption and crime, all the problems we have with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which Serbian citizens have with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We've never claimed that we have the majority to declare our mistrust to the government. We expected the government to have most of those who chose it. However, we insist that a day be scheduled for a vote of no confidence in the Government, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please quote me a member of the Rules of Procedure saying that we were obliged to provide 126 MPs. Please don't give me any explanation. Please don't give me any explanation. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I was quoting 32 seconds, you should have followed, made a statement about these injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11012	People's MPs, I followed how many quotes and notices you received in three minutes and 30 seconds in three minutes and 36 seconds. There's no damage to article 86. The situation you are talking about when you are getting a word, because you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, there were 123 MPs in the electronic voting system and another number of MPs who did not want to register in the electronic voting system, and what is considered legitimate, or question whether they should be considered legal, by a silent agreement during our session. This violates Article 222. The Rules of Procedure, which clearly obliges all MPs in the first position, especially those in constant work, to participate in the establishment of quorums and to register their parliamentary cards in the electronic voting system when participating in the session. The practice that has been discussed in our assembly is that minority members do not have to respect it and that members of the ruling majority have an obligation to always show that they are at least 126 by registering in the electronic system. This business is nowhere to be arranged and for discussion is whether or not we can arrange a business member. When I said there were no injuries to a member in 86, I said that at that point in the National Assembly, we were 126, and this explanation is supposed to serve who was in the O.R. Your proposal not to give you an explanation is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I warn you not to address the MPs of the National Assembly in such a way, for you cannot ask the chairman or anyone else to violate the Rules of Procedure of an orderly obligation to give you explanations. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. In the day of the vote, we will declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure, which was pointed out by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Article 226 concerning Article 104. In fact, yesterday, the SRS asked the foreign minister to inform us urgently about what he would do about the shameful statement by the Ambassador of Great Britain, Wardsworth. If we were a country that respects sovereignty, if we were a country that respects its citizenship, if we were a state that can't be ordered, but with which it can be co-operated, today Wardsworth, the ambassador of Great Britain, would have been declared "persona non grata" and thrown out of this country! I know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia know very well that Wardsworth is the boss of some opposition parties and some parties in power. Wardsworth can't be the boss of Serbia! Serbia is a state older than England, Serbia is a state that has built sovereignty for thousands of years and no one can behave this way, nor can a diplomat, a rude diplomat, Wardsworth, read his statement to you, but before I say so, let me put it this way. It is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens of Serbia, mostly on major religious holidays, come out with some scandal or some action that destroys, humiliates, robs or kills Serbia!- I'm sorry. On December 19th, Wardsworth found it appropriate that the statement would not quote everything, I will only quote one part, as follows: "There is another issue that should be taken into account, and that is how legislative activities and integration processes are taking place in Serbia. There is an ambitious plan to adopt 51 laws from the European agenda this year, but so far only nine have passed through parliament because of the SRS and DSS tactics. This must be resolved". How does Mr. Wardsworth mean to solve that question? Who gives the right, first of all, to Wardsworth meddle in this sort of thing? Who gives Wardsworth the right to find a way to solve the question? We know how they solve those questions. He says, "I would estimate that people should understand how much these parties harm Serbia's European integration." Ladies and gentlemen, since the foreign minister has not reported to say what he has so far, we again demand that today he tell us what the Foreign Ministry is going to do about this scandal, which has arisen. It does not allow Serbia to defile her honor and her cheek. It does not allow Serbia to be white-worlded, it is a good term, quasi-politicals and quadriculturals in this way. This is not how the colonies are treated. I demand, on behalf of the SRS, that we be informed today... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm done. I demand that we get a notice today -- what will the state of Serbia, what will the foreign ministry do about it, what will the Serbian government do about it?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11014	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. After that comes Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11015	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, because during the chairmanship of Ms. Comic, the vice-president, was violated by the chairman of the DS Executive Board, Mr. Marko Đurisic, who is currently not in the hall. Because the Rules of Procedure say that the speaker cannot throw away and that in any way interferes with the speaker. It's not the first time. I really have this opportunity, sitting in the vice president's seat, to follow how someone behaves and it's easier for me to see than for you sitting. I must tell you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that Mr Todorovic, in the manner of his precision, has been known in general on the political scene of Serbia and as vice-president of our party, and especially as chairman of the Executive Committee of the SRS, which is the Đurišic's pandan of this function, has presented exact, therefore, data, dry statistics, and related to the manner of explanation and length of these explanations during the chairmanship of Mrs Comic. If someone else had been in Mr. Djurisic's place, Mrs. Komic would have given him a warning, because he had very uglyly thrown to Mr. Todorovic, offended by the fact that Mr. Todorovic said that if someone was guilty in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is a late budget, which does not work, it is certainly part of this ZES coalition, and above all DS. What offends you now is that you have a vice-president of the Assembly who obstructs the work of the Assembly, gives explanations of 11.5 hours, which you throw away, which you are unable to bring into the assembly procedure at the time of the budget, is not enough and is certainly inadmissible, in such a way to throw yourself to Mr Todorovic, who is also the president of our parliamentary group. Since you are now here, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I must return to Article 204 which was advertised on two occasions by Mrs Radet, and it concerns days for the vote of no confidence in the government. It reminds me of that time in 2002, when the SRS submitted a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government of Zoran Djindjic, so Cedomir Jovanovic said, well, those who do not have 126 have the right to seek no confidence in the government. But you have former DOS Minister Vladan Batic, who then, as a member of the 18-party coalition, insisted that his mistrust be addressed by the debate we held in the Assembly for three days and immediately, which the same member of the Rules of Procedure treats, joined the vote. We didn't have the majority at the time to declare our mistrust with Vladan Batic, but after not one year we shot down the Dosovna Authority, by not trusting the government of Zoran Zivkovic, it was obvious, as it is now, that you are being crushed by the stakes and ropes and that you cannot survive at all. I don't know what you're showing me, Mr. Vlahovic, if you're showing me that you've taken two million fees for Sartid, I don't know if that's a little bit, given your capabilities and your capacity. But I'm saying, this can't work like this. Please, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, that in accordance with Article 204. Immediately set the rules of procedure a day for the vote on mistrust of your government, which was filed by the SRS, DSS and New Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11016	Thank you. You know I've concluded a mistrust session with the government. There's no problem in saying that. I would like to ask the promoters to offer me an appointment, so that we can have 126 MPs and to finish it. So, I'm asking those who initiated the session to agree with them on the date, it's not at all questionable to set that day, but it should really be for those who initiated that session to suggest a term for me to make a statement. That's what we're gonna do in a meeting with the heads of Parliament. The word is Mr. Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11017	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, what you just said, is contrary to the explanation that Mrs Gordana Comic, as chairman, explained before you came, why not actually vote on the government's mistrust. My request is that you at least be in line with that important thing. I called before your explanation and the proposal to set a deadline, in order to say that the mistrust session of the government was not over, because it was not voted. You remember we called the session calling for article 130. Serbia's constitution and that it is more relevant to this matter than the Rules of Procedure. The last sentence of Article 2, reads: "After the debate is closed, the vote shall be made on the proposal". We didn't vote. That, whether the opposition will raise 126 votes, is a matter of voting, not a quorum. We have to have a situation to vote to see if there are 126 or not. That's, at this point, the most important thing. Therefore, I agree to set a day for the vote, as this alone ends a session that explicitly requires a vote of no confidence in the government. Otherwise, that session made sense, the citizens heard what it was really about. But by the very letter of the Constitution, it must end. Therefore, the agreement is a deal, but I am glad that this intervention by the SRS Rules of Procedure and my colleagues has, however, yielded fruit and that we will act according to the Constitution and adhere to the vote on mistrust of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11018	Mr Samardzic, Mrs Comic, as far as I followed, only said that we had ruled in the Rules of Procedure and that, after the debate ended, it was a certain day for the vote and that it was the same day. The vote went the way it went. None of you proposed simply wanted to participate in it. I completely agree, and I agree that when we agree that we will be able to realize the act of voting, then we do it, and I think it's quite fine. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11019	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. I would like to remind the applicant of the motion to vote for no confidence in the government, so exactly what happened is, so if the applicant of the motion to vote for no confidence in the government wants that initiative to end, then the least he can do is participate in the vote. I want to remind you of something else, the DS did not, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica on several occasions, submit initiatives and because, of course, it did not have a majority, your majority did not want to allow this initiative to come to the agenda. I want to remind you that as most of us put this point on the agenda, that as most of us, we gave double the time to argue, that we, too, as most of us wanted to give a voting quorum, you didn't want to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11020	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11021	Mrs. Kolundjia, what you said is not true at all. I'll tell you what's not true. First, at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica there was no Constitution, there were different provisions, it was possible for most of them to remove the proposed item from the agenda and the point was removed by the ruling majority having more than 126 in the hall, and therefore most of the votes removed the item from the agenda. It's the first and most basic material false thing you've said here. Why do you have to replicate? You'll get out, but what can you say to this, this is the material truth? So there was a majority who had taken the agenda off the debate. That's one thing. The second thing, when it comes to voting on government mistrust, the least the ruling coalition has to do for itself, what you just said, excuse the expression, I apologize in advance, but I have to say it's really stupid. The ruling coalition must demonstrate its power. He doesn't have to? Well, of course you don't have to when you don't have that power. You barely collected 126 MPs the other day to vote on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, you were there, and for all the points of the agenda you were voted on, except for two, the LDP and gave you a quorum. That's your ruling coalition? What are you talking about? You should have 126 for two things. First, to secure the voting quorum. Why? To defeat the opposition at that vote. You won't expect the opposition to serve you all this, will you? Secure 126 and defeat the opposition at the vote, that was your task. You said you didn't want to do it, done thing like it's over. All right, let's get it over with, but that's your loss. Whatever you say now doesn't have any value, these are the basic facts, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11022	It's Mrs. Kolundji's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11023	Mr. Aligrudic, it would be the opposite of how you qualified my claims in case you were at least consistent with what you claimed. You claim that the ruling majority has the need to demonstrate their majority, and by the fact that you didn't even want to put that debate on the government, you prove that you didn't want to demonstrate the majority first, and secondly, that you didn't want to discuss the government. It's a simple fact. The fact is, too, that the parliamentary majority wanted the debate on the government and made it possible for it to happen. They are facts, and you can discuss as much as you want, Mr. Aligrudic, but it's simply a fact, and when you want a vote of mistrust to happen, let us know, we'll be here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11024	Mr. Aligrudic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11025	You'll have a hard time dealing with me here, Mrs. Kolundjia. Here's the problem with the way you think. It's nice that you love yourself and your MP group and that you want to portray you as completely correct, here's the wheeler in the next one. You had to hold a mistrust session because the Constitution makes you do it. What's true, I admit, we didn't have to do it according to that letter of the Constitution, so we avoided it by taking advantage of the possibility to take off the agenda something that was proposed, for which we were criticised. It is not disputed, but then we all amended the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, under the current provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you had to put it on the agenda. So, this is your destiny, the debate about mistrust is your destiny in the letter of the Constitution and the will of a number of MPs who initiate this initiative. You want to turn water into wine and stuff and replace logic that's just amazing. You have or you don't have a majority. I'm not saying that you may have a majority for certain things, you have proved that you have 126 when you voted on the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, there have been 126 cards without LDP and you voted on whether or not a provision of the Rules of Procedure has been violated, but so far you have proven unquestionably that you do not have a majority for certain things proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is because you are inaccessible within the Government, which is that you cannot reach any comprehensive agreement on joint business, because you are forced against the wall to do certain jobs that we have observed during the discussion of the government that they are contrary to the state interest, which I do not qualify differently except by inability or by not choosing good means to run state policy and for everything else you do nothing. That's your result, 29 laws you owe from those you promised to the National Assembly, and this is where you replace the thesis and claim the opposition is obstructing. How do you obstruct? By reporting to the Rules of Procedure? By saying the amendments? Well, that happens everywhere in the world. Your problem is that you do not give either to the opposition or to the public a single valid argument through a major legislative initiative by the government, through certain deadlines. What you're saying is, there's a budget deadline. What a deadline, you broke it. Are you saying that the previous session was held too long? Ten days you've been discussing the law that you've adopted on "blood and knife" here, making a mix-up of various kinds, postponing once or twice the voting session because you couldn't collect most of it because of one law or two. It's your picture and opportunity and now you want to tell me what the opposition had to do. The opposition doesn't have to do anything, you have to do everything, because you've taken responsibility, and you're not doing anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11026	Mr. Vlahovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11027	According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 101st and 103rd. Mr. Aligrudic, you really have shown what your understanding of democracy looks like. If I understand correctly, your understanding of democracy is that the ruling majority here demonstrates force over the minority in Parliament. Mr Aligrudic, I will remind you that there was a debate in this House about the confidence of the then Minister Batic, and later the entire government, and that this was happening, according to the same constitution that you called for and which allegedly allowed you to avoid discussing the first government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Therefore, it is the understanding of democracy. You don't have to hide behind the Constitution when you have to hide something else in the work of the government, but let the minority discuss how the government works and that here it's justifiedly trying to point to some inefficient procedures that the government is conducting. What do I want to say? Understanding democracy does not limit or stop the Constitution, whatever it is. So, under the same constitution, the government of Dr Zoran Djindjic has here provided discussion to opposition MPs about the confidence of one minister and later on about the confidence of the entire government. Now, that was, Mr. Aligrudic, the understanding of democracy. As for the vote in parliament, it is not true that the opposition, by definition, must be against all the proposals proposed by the government. It also showed the DS when it was the opposition. You remember, I explained the bill of bankruptcy because your minister had no idea about the same law because he wasn't even preparing it. You also remember that a whole series of legal projects were stored from the previous government, by the government of Dr Zoran Djindjic, and adopted by the government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica and that DS MPs, then minority and opposition parties in Parliament, voted for these laws. It was an understanding of democracy. Citizens knew that ratings that political parties were constructive, which they did not, were later seen in the elections. The way you work, that's how you'll get through the election. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11028	Mr. Ilic, do you allow the word Aligrudic to be given before you? Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11029	Mr. Vlahovic, it's all nice if you don't have partial memory. By the way, there were still issues of mistrust with the government at the time of Vojislav Kostunica, and one of these procedures ended by Tomislav Nikolic withdrawing the proposal before there was a vote at all. On the other hand, if you already have a good memory, keep it comprehensive. What you are boasting as a democratic process is covered by other non-democrats of the same political party whose members you were then a member of today, and these are various foreign votings, from Bodrum, the withdrawal of 45-46 seats from MPs of other parliamentary groups, the translation of parts of political parties into other parliamentary clubs to help you realize your government, as was the case with Banet Ivkovic. And today there's something to remind me of, but I wouldn't go into the details because I don't know them enough and I wouldn't get too involved. In fact, this parliament, from the time your political party was predominant in it and ruled the minority alone with its satellites from 2002 to 2003, is the darkest era of Serbian parliamentaryism! At that time, you had the opportunity to be pressured by various European institutions including the Council of Europe and the OSCE to prevent the unprecedented scandals that you have produced in this House without telling you about everything else. You yourself know why there was an emergency parliamentary election in 2003. You can't do it with such a background, not you personally, because I don't want to doubt you, I even have a good opinion about you, but it's about one political party you can't get after-smart democratic legitimacy from that time, when we're talking about the past. That's why I'd like to ask you to let it go. I'm talking about the moment right now. The present moment is characterized by the obvious and inconclusive evidence of the full incompetence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respond to the daily challenges for the benefit of Serbian citizens, especially when it comes to economic and social spheres, which is because this government is forced, under pressure from the side to do another job, for me, non-state, you call it a state-wide great success, that is, of course, all upside down. Simply, when something goes wrong under severe pressure and something that is actually an unnatural alliance is formed, it can neither produce coherence nor good agreements in the government or normal behavior. What we have seen in the previous days is the result of incompetence in the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the ruling majority on some issues. I'm not saying the government fell, if the government had fallen, we would have talked differently, but the government has serious problems. The ruling coalition suffers extremely large problems that will make the citizens of Serbia the most suffering, not us here in the assembly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11030	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11031	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand why the ruling coalition goes from replica to replica, and why it causes damage to the Rules of Procedure. You were supposed to interrupt us today to work, to finish this budget debate. We know about your problems, gentlemen from the ruling coalition. Your budget is empty. You don't have a dinar. You have a huge budget deficit. The budget charge in January is flat zero. You don't expect a charge, and you owe a lot. If the budget is adopted, you're in big trouble. Therefore, you are eligible for temporary funding to say - here, there is no money, and because there is no money you will charge the opposition. Then, of course, by wood and stones, along with your media, you will be brought down to the opposition – they did not allow the budget to be adopted. From day one, you've been trying to go to temporary funding. This is also shown by the government which is extremely unserious, because since all the deadlines provided for it were only then it proposed a budget to Parliament. It also shows hundreds of undefined positions and this many amendments. This also shows your challenging replicas – why don't you put on a vote of mistrust to the government, it's quite normal and natural. You are now going from story to story to story to accuse the opposition after New Year's, but Serbian citizens must know that you are an incompetent, non-permanent government. Here's who's running your government - ambassadors! You know what an ambassador is in one state? He's one of the officials of some other state who's sitting here and he's supposed to be doing some clerical work. But they're your dads. They tell you when to put what to the agenda, which party to attack, how and how. That's what I'm talking about. You are insufferable, and as insufferable, you cannot run a serious state like Serbia. Therefore, the truth must be said – you do not have the conditions to move to a normal budget since 1 January 2009. You owe, you don't know at the beginning of the year in the first three months where you're going and what you're going to do. You expect some money, they will come. They will not. There's nothing to sell. You spent money on Mobtel in an election campaign, you spent two billion 260 million euros in campaigns, presidential campaigns, and that's why you won, because you promised the people everything and everything! You've made wedding halls and fun in the villages. You've done so much nonsense just to get the electoral body and you've got it. Now what?- I'm sorry. You're working now, gentlemen! You have nothing and you don't know where you're going and what you're going to obstruct to say, not to let the opposition adopt the budget. If you're strong, powerful and capable, why didn't you put it on the agenda 20 days ago, adopt it, finish it?- I'm sorry. Therefore, your weakness must be demonstrated in this way, that you be punished and that you leave as soon as possible because you don't know, and if you know how to work! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11032	Gentlemen, I invite you to work on an extremely significant agenda, the point is the budget, I remind you. Obviously, there are other speakers who want to pick up the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask the Assembly to do its job. The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11033	Dear Presidents, colleagues, I am reporting in accordance with Article 226, and in light of the events that take place at the Ministry of Defence and the state institution -- Serbia's Guard Army. We express a great deal of concern, and this is Mr. Todorovic from the pay phone just now, because of the English ambassador's behaviour, because of certain disagreements between the minister and the chief of staff and the other generals. I ask the following questions: First question for Ms. Finance Minister, the Treaty signed by President Boris Tadic on 7 September 2006 with Condoleezza Rice in article 10 reads like this – Armed Forces and partners of the United States can use water, electricity and other public utility services under conditions not less favourable, including prices and taxes applicable to Serbia's Army. In similar circumstances, unless otherwise agreed, their costs will be equal to their contractual participation in the use of the given municipal services. 1) How do you plan to fill the budget, which we have heard is empty, that we go to temporary funding, if we allow these conditions to non-profit organisations, in terms of non-productive organisations? The only thing the U.S. Army has produced in the last 60 years is close to 200 wars across the planet! Next question for the government. Serbia is in agreement with the possibility of the need for US armed forces to use a radio spectrum. The U.S. Armed Forces are authorized to operate their own telecommunications systems in our country. This means the right to use the required means and services in order to ensure all conditions for the management of telecommunications systems and the right to use the necessary radio spectrum. The US authorities will coordinate with Serbia's competent authorities on the use of the US Armed Forces frequency and the US Armed Forces have the right to free use of radio spectrum. Is the army of Serbia, which should provide and protect us, the lower-ranking institution, the second-class institution in relation to some institutions that come here apparently to enslave us?- I'm sorry. Does this collapse of our army for the past eight years mean exactly that – that we will become a protectorate?- I'm sorry. 2) I ask the Government to answer me if our army, the Serbian Army, is the second-class institution in relation to some armed forces whose headquarters is thousands of miles away from our country?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11034	He has the word Mr. Samardzic. Did you give up, Mr. Samardzic? You gave up. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. GODINU (common principle search of the 1-9th agenda) Has the word Mrs Grubjesic, of course, shifts to a significant point of the agenda – the budget, as president of the G17 Plus Group. Here you go, Mrs. Grubeshic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11035	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I wanted to say respected ministers, but since there are only you, the Prime Minister, the President, before us the draft budget for 2009 and after the final negotiations with the IMF and the adoption of this proposal of the government, we are finally familiar with the framework within which the Serbian government will lead economic policy in the coming year. This fits into one sentence – means savings are planned because the first and basic IMF requirement is a reduction in state spending, i.e. a budget deficit, and we see that for 2009 the budget deficit is fixed to 1.5% of gross social product and that public spending is reduced to about 43% of gross social product. A budget this well-conceived is considered restrictive and this assessment does not stem only from the IMF's demands, nor from the obvious effects of the global financial crisis on the Serbian economy, but from the knowledge or better recognition that restrictions in public spending must be accepted. Whether this budget will really be restrictive depends on whether the planned revenues of 698.7 billion dinars will be realised and how economic activity will take place. Half of these revenues are VAT revenues, so 315.6 billion dinars. There are also excise incomes, income tax on citizens, corporate income tax, dividends on public enterprises, etc. On the other hand, it can be said that only expenditures projected at a level of 748.8 billion dinars and that salaries, pensions and subsidies are the largest part of the expenditure. It is a good decision – that after a one-time increase in pensions, they will not grow next year, and that wages will not grow more than planned inflation, so 8% maximum. The share of subsidies in the gross social product decreases from year to year, but there is also room for further reductions in the next period, as the companies receiving subsidies must be forced to operate more efficiently. This primarily applies to the largest recipient of subsidies, the Public Undertaking of the "Serb Railways", but also to the Resavico Mine. Projected economic growth, we heard that 3.5%, while between 2002 and 2007 was about 6.5% a year. Because of expensive money and difficult exports, we all know that it will be difficult to achieve an imaginary growth rate. Serbia also has a very high current balance of payments deficit, which is almost financed by loans from abroad and foreign direct investment, and will, therefore, be a key challenge for growth to come from investments rather than spending. In any case, there is a big business in maintaining macroeconomic stability before fiscal and monetary authorities in the coming period. This stability is not only threatened by the global economic crisis, but by inherited problems and unfinished economic reforms. We can't help but feel that this government, not with its own will and not with its own guilt, has the most difficult task now, which is – that the citizens face unhappiness and, on the one hand, are openly told that in the coming period it will be difficult, but that guarantees that they should not succumb to panic. In this sense, the financial support package, which will apply since January 2009. We can debate whether it's enough or not, but the fact is that it's the only possible thing for now. Fifty billion dinars were allocated, which is 1.7% of gross social product in terms of the state guarantee for favourable loans to the economy. These loans are dinar and will be granted through business banks, without a foreign exchange clause, with a government guarantee of 75% of the loan, and 25% of the funds will be provided by business banks that also carry out the selection of borrowers. Based on the government's approved guarantee, the National Bank of Serbia approves business banks with liquid assets to lend to the economy, with a return period of one to two years, with a nominal interest rate of 12%. These favourable loans are primarily intended for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which employs around 1.3 million workers, as well as exporters. Credit users will be obliged by a contract to guarantee the maintenance of an existing number of employees during the period of use of favourable loans. We can see there's another 20 billion dinars to borrow small and medium-sized enterprises through the Development Fund. These are loans for beginners, favourable loans for small and medium-sized enterprises in underdeveloped areas, loans for crafts operations and several more favourable credit lines. There are 11 billion dinars for active employment measures and passive protection measures at work. It is also 3 billion for infrastructure equipment of industrial zones, and 1.7 billion is for encouraging greenfield investment. There's 20 billion to build a traffic structure, mostly highways on Corridor 10. However, I would like to dedicate one part of my exposure not only to these figures that we all have the opportunity to see in the budget, but also to something that appeared in our public, which is that so-called. The unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the EU, since it lacked a number of politicians, far less economists, used this application as a reason to attack this draft budget, without actually explaining what it was about. Why do I say - unilateral application of the Agreement? Because in 2000, by introducing autonomous trade measures, which are in force by 2010, the EU abolished customs duties on imports of all goods from Serbia, except that certain products are limited in quantities. Of course, the basic question is whether or not we want to go to the EU. If the answer is confirmed, then it should begin with the application of the Transitional Trade Agreement. When I hear voices against the application of the Transition Trade Agreement, I have to notice that most of them come from the other side that didn't even want Serbia to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, let alone ratify it here in the Assembly. In this whole story, there is at least economic logic, because it is amazing that someone in the 21st century mentions -- protection of domestic economy, protectionism and closure, because no nation in history has destroyed free trade, so neither will Serbia. Some other problems are destroying the nation. The loss of customs revenue is in fact no loss of revenue, because I guess the goal of the state is to keep more money in the pockets of Serbian citizens who will be able to buy more goods and services, because if we want to be part of the EU, we must also accept that we are part of the single market. The implementation of the Transitional Trade Agreement is good news for consumers in Serbia, and bad news for inefficient firms, because they will either have to adapt and become competitive, or disappear from the market. There is no reason, on the other hand, that agricultural producers are afraid to apply the Transition Trade Agreement, because agriculture, both in the EU and Serbia, is generously subsidized. Farmers in Serbia benefit from liberalisation because there are plenty of monopolies, expensive instructions, tractors to which 30% of customs is paid. Today we hear we should be afraid of liberalisation. We're thinking the other way around. Agricultural characteristics are a significant dependence on production. Would you please tell the MP Avramovic not to throw it away? He can replicate later, if he knows. (President: Mr Avramovicu, do not disturb Mrs Grubjesic. ) Therefore, agricultural characteristics are a significant dependence on production. A typical agricultural production chain would come from the production of seed corn, cattle, cows, heifers, half-carcases, meat, sausages. Why am I saying this? You'll find it difficult to be competitive in the production of sausages, if it's bad corn seeds. It's a chain that must have a logical end and end from beginning to end. There is no problem if it is low customs, so at world prices, the most quality seed of corn is imported. However, right where you have a monopoly of one manufacturer, you have, as a rule, the greatest protection. Conversely proportional to logic, but precisely the proportional powers of a monopolies. Our customs duty was largely based more on lobbys and less on economic logic and because the faster application of the Transition Trade Agreement brings opportunity, not only to consumers, to have lower prices, but also to farmers, to deprive the monopoly, to get better quality and cheaper inputs. Why is it called the Transition Trade Agreement? Because it is applied in a transitional period of six years. During that six-year period, the key branch, for a certain time, remains under the customs protection system. The duration of this period is set during negotiations based on an assessment of Serbia's capacity to adapt to European standards, as well as the deadlines agreed in the negotiations of other countries of the region. For Serbia, Croatia and BiH, a period of six years is foreseen for Montenegro five, while Macedonia and Albania have received a transitional period of as much as 10 years. Serbia's commitment during this period will be to phase out customs duties on imports of certain goods originating in the EU, and will be abolished according to a specific classification, according to a set schedule, until they are completely abolished. Currently, Serbia's largest customs duties are prescribed for the goods produced in Serbia, and these products, as we all could see in the Transition Trade Agreement we discussed in the Assembly, but are not repeated, classified in three categories: sensitive, highly sensitive and most sensitive products. Customs tariffs on sensitive products in the first year should be reduced to 70% of the current rate, the second year to 40%, while third year, since the start of application, imports of these goods from the EU would be completely free. A group of highly sensitive products would be sold with 80% customs first year, then customs would be reduced, while the traffic would become free after four years. For a group of most sensitive products, customs duties are planned for the first year to be 85% of the current rate, while imports of these goods without customs charges are planned after five years. The transitional agreement also provides for additional protection measures, Art. 41 and 42, in the event that the increased imports cause or threaten to cause serious injury to one of the parties' industries or in the event of shortages or re-exports. On the other hand, the EU confirms Serbia's free access to its market with the exception of textiles, wine, sugar and June, but should repeat that exports of industrial products from Serbia to the EU have been free since 2000. This privilege of domestic enterprises has largely not been used for many reasons. First of all, due to the strict conditions for exports, which have proved to be inaccessible for many Serbian companies, but also because of the organisational, technological backlog of production, sales and logistics, so that raw materials or semi-products are mainly exported to the EU market. The EU-wide elimination or reduction of customs duties has taken six years since the entry into force of the Agreement. The first year planned to abolish and reduce customs duties by 56.8% of products, but whose average customs burden is only 1.4%. After three years, the reduction and suspension of customs duties is 5.66% of the total customs rates, and after the fifth and sixth years all agreed customs duties will be abolished. So this transitional third year has just been introduced, so customs don't stop at once and don't shake the budget. Such a small customs duty, in essence, is not some big revenue for the budget, and more burdens importers with paperwork. If this minimum customs duty were to be abolished, this would facilitate imports of re-comparation and further growth of production. The lack of tariffs in the budget can be compensated by increasing VAT collection on products imported from the EU and by increasing excise duties, as foreseen in the set of these fiscal laws accompanying part of the budget. I will not enter this other political argument because those who oppose any European agreement also oppose Serbia's European integration. In the end, let me make a similar impression, despite the fact that politicians love the crisis and that the crisis of any kind is an excellent excuse for State intervention, and once it intervenes, it is difficult to withdraw from the economy. It is my impression that this government of the Republic of Serbia is successfully fighting for now and that the response to the crisis that this government is providing is much better than it is in the countries of Western Europe, because, in response to the crisis, it is not about increased intervention, it is about saving. The G17 plus parliamentary group has not submitted any amendments to this draft budget, and we will vote in favour of the budget in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11036	Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, and Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11037	Reporting under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, we need to clear up some things so that the citizens of Serbia know the full truth. When you say that we need and want to go to Europe and you mean that most Serbian citizens are behind you, I must tell you that is not true. There are studies, I suppose you've had a chance to see that too, this is not an SRS survey, a "Galup Balkan Monitor", and there's very precise information about what Serbian citizens think of the date or when it will come to Europe. More than one quarter, 26% thinks we will never join the EU, 16% think we will come to Europe between 2016 and 2020, 4% think we will come after 2020, and 12% think we will come in 2015. In total, it is 67%, more than two-thirds of citizens think that from 2015 to 2021, or never, we will be in the EU. That's the facts. All 2% thinks we're coming in 2008 or 2009. They are the same as Bozidar Djelic. That's the guy. But you know, Mrs. Dejanovic, that there are 4% of the population who belong to another category, for which you are in charge. Two percent think we'll be there in 2011. Among other things, I read yesterday a statement by the English ambassador saying that Serbia will most likely come after 5, 6, perhaps more years, and perhaps never. That's one thing. You manipulate the data, or you provide false information. Another thing - you say this transitional agreement will be good, it will be good for whom? For Europe, for the European Union and for their goods. We can only interpret it in one way, that the European Union will cross us and that these consequences will be felt by Serbian citizens, above all by farmers. I must tell you that you too predicted that there would be less than 110m euros in the budget, precisely because of the unilateral application of the SAA. I have to tell you that farmers took 20.3 billion dinars of credit, probably related to all the jobs they need to handle and that they're going to have to pay it back over the next few years. You're saying there's nothing more normal... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, it's a short time to explain everything, rather than us getting into that competition, so whoever survives survives survives. I'd ask you one question, what do you think, if they let you run a 100-metre race and they throw all those Olympic representatives in there and they say, "What if it were to be a competition, so if you can hold it out, and if you can't stand it, what do you do?" This is your logic and the way you explain the destruction of Serbian and Serbian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11038	Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11039	Dear Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have reported to you in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The need for the previous speaker, Mrs Grubjesic, to explain something that either I didn't understand correctly, I don't think the citizens of Serbia understood well either, or she simply said what was amazing, which is that it's a good thing that pensions in 2009 won't increase and keep their 10% increase. I am fully convinced that 1,700 thousand pensioners, in the largest number of 900,000 pensioners receive up to 22 thousand, especially looking forward to not increasing their pensions next year, and that according to the announcement, and I see here the Bill on the Completion of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act is left out even that twice a year pensions are in line with the cost of living. So, your pensioners seem to be looking forward to it, especially after this huge 10% increase, which means that 900,000 of them got an increase of between 300 and 2,000 dinars, and inflation was already at the moment they got that increase completely ate that increase. On the other hand, I think it is very important to say that the DSS Group has requested that this proposal of the law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act be discussed here, because we believe that 1,700 thousand people in this country, who are receiving pensions, should know how their representatives stand up here and what they stand for and finally try to do, in a way to save those pensions, to actually save that coordination. What is interesting, and what is completely unclear to me, is that what Mrs Grubjesic said is completely contrary to what she said yesterday as the authorised representative of the United Pensioners' Party, Mr Colakovic, and what she also needs to do, and the DSS Group wants to do during today, but simply what Mr Colakovic said is completely contrary to what Mrs Grubjesic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11040	Mr. Sasa Milenić, replica. Then, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Stevanović, then Mr Đuro Peric and Mr Milan Avramovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, we don't do budget work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11041	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I rephrase, or react by the basis defined in Article 104, if I am not mistaken, which speaks of the dignity of the representative body of the nation, which has been spoken in exactly one way that encourages the feeling of inferiority in the national self-explanation of Serbia's international position. The reactions themselves to the previous discussion of the head of the parliamentary group, which also belongs to the 'Together for Kragujevac', are already talking about the existence of that intensity which is destructive and which is the biggest problem of the political moment today, but I could not believe that the arguments that are being used in the most explicit way will now be used. For once and for all, there is nothing in Serbia's national, cultural, historical, political identity that is not European. The complete modern identity of Serbia and the political identity of the Serbian state is European, and the only cultural political context in which this country can develop is European. What resulted in the encouragement of Levantine atavism from the centuries-old period of Turkish occupation took place during the period of communist political repression. This difficult inferiority complex, which has burdened a good part of our culture and the public, must not be encouraged today. The story of our inadequacy for competition is just the encouragement of everything frightened, everything inferior, everything that would want to Google in the dark, extra-legislative, crime, in a passive, stiff, paralyzed position, which I suppose is the only thing left to smell like death. The whole strategy of both these governments and previously discussed discussions is based on encouraging the creative potentials of the nation, the will to compete, the will to advance and to perfect, and not by encouraging one hostage, which, unfortunately, because of the rusty political and historical experience in the past exists realistically in our society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11042	First Mr. Todorovic, then Mr. Pastor, as head of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11043	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in advance, I admit that I may not have understood it very well, but it is obvious that the previous speaker was in some way provoked by my suggestion that Mrs. Susanna be on the line, or the contestant, say, a 100-metre race. Well, let's imagine now Mrs. Susan Grubjesic in a trico with these runners, as at the start of the race at 100 meters. I really must, Mr. Milkic, tell you one thing, when I'm reporting data, it's not, I told you, SRS data, it's data whose research was done by a company that's relevant to it. Whether they're good or not, I don't know, but they are who they are. Obviously, the image of Serbia does not suit you. You simply do not accept the facts and instead of trying to change, you would like to change the citizens of Serbia. That's impossible! You have 26% of Serbian citizens, more than a quarter, who say we will never come to Europe. If this research were comprehensive, they would probably give answers to why they think we'll never come to Europe. It is likely that their experiences with Europe are such that they feel that we will not come because this Europe has bombed us. She bombed us, Mr. Miletic, in 1999, but also in 1944, 1941 and 1914! It was all Europe. You can't blame the citizens of Serbia now for remembering all this. You cannot blame the citizens of Serbia because this Europe is taking away from them Kosovo and Metohija. Who's taking away from us? Tell me who's taking that away from us. Well, Europe! Is EULEX a European Union mission? Did the English ambassador say it was the biggest European Union mission in her history? And now you blame the citizens of Serbia for not accepting it. They just think it's ours and they take it away from us. You know, the Shiplars are an instrument, and in the background are those who initiated and launched it, these are the United States and one part of the European Union countries, among them in the first place England, Germany and other states, the Vatican that has been involved all along. You cannot blame the citizens of Serbia because they know everything and do not accept it. (President: Time. ) Someone accepts slavery, is happy at it, welcomes it, but two-thirds of Serbian citizens simply don't believe it or believe that when many years pass, Serbia will come to the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11044	Mr. Balint Pastor, according to the Rules of Procedure. Then you can continue your 20 minutes if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11045	Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, Article 103 - "The speaker must speak only of the matter on the agenda. ''I'm in a very difficult situation at the moment, I've got a Finance Committee waiting for me, it looks like yesterday the assistance of one opposition party was one-time, so there's no quorum without me. I ask you, Madam President, for permission to continue my 20 minutes, perhaps shorter, to state the position of our parliamentary group and the Grand Duchy of Hungarians on the 2009 draft budget. (President: Please. ) Thank you very much. I will talk about the draft budget in light of the position of Vojvodina, European integration, the position of national minorities, agriculture and decentralisation issues in the 2009 draft budget. And here, of course, I have some data on budget receipts, I have some data and some insights about expenditure, but I'd like to focus on these four topics, actually five topics, and I don't want to use all the time I have as the head of the parliamentary group, because I think this budget debate should be accelerated. As for European integration, in the 2009 draft budget, I regret to say that European integration is not properly covered by the 2009 draft budget law. When I say this, then I think of this: the European Integration Office, the European Union, and in the following year, they will have 53 employees. The Office for European Integrations of the Republic of Serbia and in 2008 also had 53 employees, and if the Government of Serbia thinks that European integration is first in Serbia, and should be so, then I must express my suspicion that we will be successful in the process of European integration, in approaching European values and the European Union, with only 53 employees in the European Integration Office, in the European Union office at the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We all know very well that the Assembly and the Government should in the coming period harmonize our entire legal system. We know that we need to adopt the legal standards of the European Union, not only legal, but all other European Union standards, and that will be very difficult with 53 employees in the European Integration Office. Of course, I am aware of the fact that there are people in all ministries who are tasked with working on harmonising our standards and our legal system with standards and the legal system of the European Union. But I also know the experiences of some countries in our environment, such as Hungary, where thousands of people have worked on this job for years so that Hungary can, after 15 years of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, become a full member of the European Union. I therefore believe that European integration, unfortunately, is not properly presented in the 2009 Budget Proposal. When we talk about Vojvodina, then I must remind you that the MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians said a few weeks ago that they are willing to support this budget exclusively if this budget is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in particular with Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says at least 7% of the Republic's budget should belong to the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, the work plan did not present it that way. Only 4.89% of the republican budget were planned in Vojvodina's work plan and we protested it. We were, unfortunately, the only one here in the National Assembly who called on both the government and our ruling coalition partners to change these figures and these figures and to bring the draft budget into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what happened and all the obstacles were removed as far as we support this budget and that's why we're going to support this budget. When we talk about Vojvodina, I should also say that we are not exactly satisfied with the solution that these 7% will be paid from the NIS sales price. I'd like to remind you, when the National Assembly discussed the Oil-Gas Agreement with the Russian Federation, that then the Union of Duchy Hungarians was against ratification of the agreement. We said that this agreement is absolutely harmful to all Serbia, especially that it is harmful to Vojvodina, that before signing the document it was necessary to pass a law on public property and that it was necessary to clarify what the property of the province, what is property of the Republic, what is the property of local self-government. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, and that was one of the reasons why we voted against ratification of that agreement. Now we will support this budget, regardless of what this proposal says will arrive 7%, among other things, and from NIS's sales price, but that does not change our view on the harmfulness of NIS sales in this way. If the National Assembly discusses the NIS sale contract again, then we will be against that contract again, against this kind of NIS sale, because we are one consistent party. That we are a consistent party, we have also shown this in the case of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. Unfortunately, part of the parliamentary majority, with the help of one opposition party, still passed the law yesterday. We believe that the law on courts' seats is anti-European and anti-minor. I am very sorry that the adoption of this law has taken place, but I am convinced that there is still room until 1 January 2010, until the entry into force of this law, that in the next year we will be able to convince our ruling coalition partners that this law in this form is harmful and contrary to the interests of citizens and that it will not be good if this law applies from 1 January 2010 in such a way as it was adopted yesterday in the National Assembly. Speaking of the law and the seats and the courts and the public prosecutors, I have to ask my colleague Tamash Tot what it's like to go back to Ada, what it's like to go back home, what it feels like to feel like to be a traitor to his constituents, and how can he explain to his voters that he voted against surviving, for example, a court in Ada?- I'm sorry. I would suggest that he come for this pay phone and say it here, not write some kind of letter in Hungarian So and serve the lies. That's untimely. This is where you should tell your voters why you did it. To return to the 2009 draft budget and return to the positions of Vojvodina in the draft budget. I would like to remind you that it is very bad that the Statute of Vojvodina has not yet been adopted in the National Assembly. We have assurances that this will happen at the end of January or early February next year. That was promised the other day by Mr Boris Tadic, the president of the Republic. We are security people, on the one hand, and I could say that we are irreparable optimists, so I hope that this will happen, because the basic prerequisite for the development of Vojvodina's consent, by the National Assembly, is the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. When I talk about the positions of national minorities in the draft budget, then I must express my satisfaction and satisfaction with the SVM that national councils will receive 200 million dinars from the Republic budget. I would like to remind you when the SVM again became a parliamentary party in early 2007 that the national councils were then receiving 63 million dinars. This year, national councils received 150, and next year they will receive 200 million dinars. That is certainly good, it is a prerequisite for national councils to be able to fulfil those obligations that should be fulfilled under both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. I also have to say that I hope that the National Assembly will adopt a law on national councils in the spring of next year, I think it would be realistic, in order to round up that legal regulation regarding the work of national councils of national minorities. When I talk about the position of national councils of national minorities in the budget, I must express my satisfaction that national councils are listed for the first time in one of the Republic of Serbia budgets as a special budgetary item, as a special classification. We also pointed to this a few months ago, when the Assembly discussed budget rebalancing for 2008. It's a good thing it's done this way in the draft budget for next year. When I talk about decentralisation, I have to say it's very bad that local self-government still doesn't have its own property, that Serbia is the most centralised state in Europe today. If not, it must be among the most centralised countries in Europe. I don't know if there's still a country in Europe where local self-government doesn't have any real property. It certainly is not good, because it will not be possible for local self-government and the whole of Serbia to develop. Local self-government is not able to meet potential investors, in a way they would like to do so and that's bad. It is also bad that the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas, led by Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin, will receive only 143 million dinars from next year's budget, when we know that in Serbia, unfortunately, there are over 40 well-developed municipalities, then we see from the budget proposal for next year that this 143 million dinar figure will certainly not be enough and it is not good that this office has not received more serious sources. It is also not good that the agriculture ministry is among those ministries whose budget is practically reduced compared to the current year's budget. The Ministry of Agriculture will receive only 18.9 billion dinars. When we know that agriculture is the only branch of the economy in Serbia that has surpluses in foreign trade and when we know that next year will be the first since 2003 when agriculture will receive less than 4% of the budget, then we must agree that it is very bad. If you allow me one cynical remark, the government seems to think there will be no choice next year, because if the elections were planned, the agricultural budget would certainly be bigger. It is very bad that agriculture is not properly presented in the draft budget law for next year. There are several other ministries whose budget is either reduced or remained, practically, at the level of the current year. For example, there's the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture will have only 10% of the military budget. Also, it's not good. I would like to remind you that UNESCO is so interpreted, the country is considered civilized if at least 1% of the budget is allocated to culture. Unfortunately, that wasn't even the case this year. It wasn't in the current year either, it wasn't in the previous years. That's not good. To conclude, the SVM will support the budget, not because we consider this budget ideal, far from it, but we believe that, when we have already fought to get at least 7%, then we do not have the moral right to vote against this budget, and also because we do not want this country to lose next year for a new pre-election campaign, for new elections, for the formation of a new government, because in that case Serbia will certainly not be able to reach the White Schengen list at the end of next year and will certainly not be able to apply to candidate status for EU membership. That is why four SVM MPs will support the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11046	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Đuro Peric. The order reported by the Rules of Procedure is the following, first Mr Dragan Stevanovic, then Milan Avramovic, Sasa Milenic, for the time being.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11047	According to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 101st and 104th. Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the United People's Party of Serbia has been permanently exposed to criticism by MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia for a long time, which is nothing abnormal. However, we have felt there as MPs of that party certain humiliations and misbehaviors, because we are constantly told – some party consisting of some directors, etc., which is absolutely not true. It's made-up stuff. However, it is precisely the situation with pensioners that stems from the fact that Mr. Kostunica's government has passed an existing law that is very dramatic, very critical and disastrously reflected on the situation of pensioners. I must say, and I will now announce that you well know, one of the main factors that has affected the creation of the United Pensions Party is Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Why? Now I'll tell you why. Until the party was even formed, we, as the Alliance of Pensioners in a long series of times, had talks with the leaders and the party about the problems that were characteristic of pensioners. It's been a long time. We were waiting for Mr. Kostunica to see us in 2004. He then received us with Mr. Lalovic, the then minister, and for these minimum requirements he said they were real and they should be accepted. But it never happened! Nothing has been done, but vice versa, this law has been passed which has led the pensioner to the position they are now in. I have to tell you something else, if it hadn't been for the SPS back then to support that government, so she put in a few of those provisions that have already begun to stop working, there would have been a black situation, and we would have found ourselves long ago as social cases in general, the entire pension population. That's why I don't think that's how you should look at the situation, because we're just because it's below 60% of what was legally required to pay off all year round, those pensions have always been less and now they're going to be next to this 10% extraordinary increase by 58.7% are still less than that, but now that provision has stopped... (President: Time) ... that there is. I'm sorry, when I speak like... (President: You will have six minutes later, you are the first on the list of speakers. )......................................................................................................... Later, then I'll continue this story and the story of how there's something I need to do here to reduce it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11048	The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11049	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated the Business because you have not given a word for the past 10-15 minutes. What you wanted to do could have been done in one correct way. I wouldn't mind giving up the right to discuss Mr. Balint Pastor, but this imperative of yours, I think it was really degutant and untasteful. I don't think I've caused anything, at least since this morning, that's your reaction. I'm going to make my contribution to the already quite ruined assembly majority, so I'm not going to deal with you and your relations with the Hungarian national minority, or their representatives here. I went out to the Rules of Procedure to respond to several findings by Mrs Grubjesic, not wanting to challenge either the replica or the discussion with her. In objective terms, some things have been presented that do not correspond to the truth, and I think they are addressed and addressed to the SRS. In fact, we expressed our relationship and attitude towards the SAA by not giving support to its ratification. When it comes to the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, the SRS disputed its unilateral application, which the government has defined, above all to the insistence of Mladjan Dinkic. The government has concrete consequences for this, admits Minister Dr Dragutinovic, which is that we will have less than 23 billion on the revenue side of the budget. I understand why she insists, but I think she had the space and the right even to react to Mrs. Susane Grubjesic's exposure. In addition to having direct conferences on the income side, you talk about the SAA as something that is beautiful, wonderful, great, honey and milk. The fact is that no one in the SRS is against the free market, the liberal economy, but when freedom of the market or any other freedom without restrictions becomes the opposite, i.e. anarchy, and when this anarchy, when it comes to the economy, you add to the economically ruined opportunity and image in this country anyway, what do you get?- I'm sorry. You get a budget like this and you get unstable and insecure in 2009, which, I believe, we all expect together. It can't be the backbone of a normal and healthy state that's just a liberal trade. Representatives of G17 and the ruling majority spend at least the words on production, creating preconditions to mate, i.e. to go out to that free market both in Europe and in the world. Therefore, given the fact that we will have 23 billion dinars in our budget due to the unilateral application of the SAA... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, it would be delicious for representatives of the ruling majority to say in which way and from whose backs the deficit will be secured, and these are citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the increase in excise duties on coffee, brandy, beer and cigarettes, and you cannot convince me that today under these circumstances in Serbia everything that... (President: You will be brought in, please. )......................................................................................................... I've listed the luxury, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11050	Mr. Stevanovic, the deal with the heads of parliament's groups yesterday was that the leaders of the parliamentary groups have an advantage in their presentation in front of their parliamentary groups. So, since last night, we've had Mr. Balint and Mrs. Susanna and I've given them my word on that basis. I know you've called the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Balint and the Rules of Procedure have come forward, and since last night we owe him that time. So it's not any special relationship, it's the same as you, it's exactly the same. Mr. Milan Avramovic has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the dignity of this assembly has been injured for one simple reason. Here the speaker from G17 plus Mrs. Susana Grubjesic presented some things that offend logic and common sense. I wouldn't go out because I'm waiting for my amendments and my participation in the discussion on this agenda point, so then I'm going to be a little more extensive and I'm going to explain how division 15 works and the development of businesses and small businesses, i.e. financial injections with soft loans, as stated in the draft budget, but it seems that the G17 MPs are not familiar with the general facts. What's this about? First, I would ask all MPs who are having a dilemma about how the economy currently works to walk through factories, here only in the circle of Belgrade, during the break, and to visit Rakovica, to visit TE 'Nikola Tesla', to visit now 'Monter', who bought 'The Truster', to visit all factories that have a problem making a product, not with that product to be a competition product from Europe. Just to put two or three basic things in the parallel of comparison – how do we even get to the product? What is the level of organised crime in the countries of Europe, and what is it about us in Serbia?- I'm sorry. What is the rate of paying taxes to the state, and what is it like in Serbia? What's the price of gas? What is the price of electricity in EU countries, and how much is it with us? How do you even get a product? We had direct proof by applying the CEFTA agreement, so we had examples of the tobacco industry, so we had other examples, how can we sell tractors from Rakovica cheaper than it costs to make it, how, where's the profit, where's the profit?- I'm sorry. We pay for the entrance to every country, we pay for customs, and we can have anyone who wants to come to us free of charge and whenever they want to. We're either there's competition, or we're gonna be better than them, or we're not gonna exist. Then we're talking about the preservation of the job, the development, the financial injections, the tycoons that felt the best, not the workers who slept in the streets and in front of the Assembly, in the parks and in front of their factories, who no one would listen to or hear. I'm going to talk more about all these details, about more factories, especially in Belgrade, because the center and the capital are in debate when it comes to me on the list where I signed up to speak. Please, if you have any kind of dilemma or campaign, since you only read section 15 – Ministry of Regional Development, i.e. Minister Dinkic, go to these factories and make sure you're wrong. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11052	The word has Mr. Saša Milenić, according to the Business, then Ms. Jovanovic, Mr. Dimitrijevic, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, Mr. Zeljko Tomic, Mr. Šormaz. Almost an entire DSS parliamentary group reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11053	I suppose Mr. Todorovic meant me explicitly, mentioning the name Milikic, but I think he meant my name, Milenić, while he spoke and interpreted the content of my discussion in a way that was mildly tried, or completely distorted. But I listened very carefully, with the will to learn something, and I understood that the misunderstanding actually lies in the reasons that I made in my previous address. First, in an entirely wrong understanding of your own position, so if you want even national history and national identity, the idea that the confirmation of something national in an anti-European position is completely distorted, has nothing to do with history or the history of ideas in our culture. Modern Serbia is created as a local self-government in Kragujevac at the beginning of the last century, on the full identity of national and European, in resistance to eastern, violently built heritage, as well as to the political mentality in its own cultural pattern. And it's a completely pro-Western whole modern history of Serbia right through World War I and the Second until the communist regime is installed. The Soviet heritage and the Levantine idea of Serbia's anti-Western and anti-European identity. If this topic belongs to history, the current moment, surely it is the fact that, of course, we have to change ourselves, not by changing citizens through a doctoring process, but by our integration processes cannot be accelerated by a magic wand or by a skillful trick of foreign policy, but primarily by working on their own culture, production and overall. It seems to me that such an emotional and acute reaction to the discussion of the head of the G17 Parliamentary Group, Mrs Grubjesic, only confirms that there is no reason to fear progress so much, while there are those who obviously know where they are going.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11054	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11055	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to report by article 104 and react, because Mr. Sasa Milenic, and Mr. Todorovic is not really obliged to remember every last name, violates the dignity of the Assembly, on two occasions, because he is trying to teach both political and historical lectures to Serbian radicals without looking at himself and his own yard. Mr. Milenic, I am proud, too, of the fact that I come from Kragujevac, where modern Serbian democracy was conceived and we do have, both Kragujevci and Šumadinci, which is what we should be proud of and proud of. But you, as the president of the Kragujevac City Assembly, who is the most harshly trampled by the law, which is voted in this, as you say, representative home, when you were not a folk MP, and now you are a multi-stakeholder of circumstances, because you are a chain on the G17 Plus list, so that your local party can reach 2% at the overall level of the voters in Serbia, let alone sit in the parliamentary bench. So, besides being inappropriately undressed this time, with an external appearance that does not really look like a congregation payphone, but rather a period of events, you presented facts that do not fit with what is the tradition of modern democracy and what is in the spirit of respect for the Constitution and the laws of this country. You didn't, Mr. Milenic, know the most basic thing to read and interpret, Article 47. Law on local elections. I am sorry that Mr. Markovic is not here, but still, one minister, or another, Mr. Batic, I welcome that and as a doctor of legal science he can explain to you, he writes well, Mr. Milenić – resignation, authority, contracts. You didn't want to respect that. You even made a recommendation to criminal Miroljub Tomic, the president of the Kragujevac District Court, to seize the mandates of the SRS. You know what else you've done, you've suspended the funds for 10 parliamentary mandates. Well, you should know, Mrs. Kolundjia. Your party colleague, a certain Mr Popovic, Mr. Milenić calls the procurator, argues over a table, whose board is bigger on the main street in Kragujevac, number 100 and some, whether the Democratic Party or the coalition 'Together for Kragujevac'. That's the biggest thing right now. Don't make such manipulations here and deceive, Mr. Milenic. You have suspended, contrary to the Law on the financing of political parties, funds for payment at the expense of the SRS. That is why you will receive criminal charges, i.e. Veroljub Stevanovic, as mayor and direct commanding officer for the execution of the Kragujevac city's budget. And the Constitutional Court will once have to do its job, and the sleeping Republic Public Prosecutor, after I have received the answer that he is alive and well, is moving to seek the protection of legality, besides Mr Milan Markovic himself, as he told me, will go into the protection of legality by the rights that follow the SRS, which you could not respect. You can't interpret and read only one member of the law, and you're willing to give us in yours, really, for the general public and for these learned people here, an incomprehensible spirit some lectures that have nothing to do with reality, or what you really are. You really are an ugly image of democracy in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11056	The word has Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, then Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic. (Milica Vojić-Markovic: I give up. You give up, I thank you. Does Mr. Zeljko Tomic give up? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11057	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of paving my way with Mr. Djur Peric. So, I'm just gonna talk about facts. Applying the Pension Insurance Act allows pensions to be coordinated twice a year. The amendment to the law, which goes in the budget package, determines that pensions are frozen. The DSS asked to discuss it as a special agenda item. Your party voted for a united debate, that all such objections and that this great problem of pensioners should not be discussed in one valid way. These are facts and that's the DS concern of this endangered population, so that's the essence of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11058	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11059	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for the violation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the dignity of the National Assembly which has violated my court, Mr Djuro Peric. They report that we are being taught lessons by those whose party's managers, PUPS, have destroyed pension funds. Who managed pension funds during the 1990s? The leaders of the United Pensioners of Serbia! What the public needs to know, what she might have already noticed, just seems like no one's gonna notice it, PUPS MPs only come out for this pay phone when they're on the agenda of the budget, budget rebalancing and money-related things. Can we expect you here at the pay phone when the Duke's statute comes, when the law on brandy comes? No, you have a moratorium on your work, except when it comes to money. By 2010, you're "frillers," as you say, you don't exist because you're only interested in what's tightly related to money. We were accused, a month or two ago, of being insulted by the DSS. From this pay phone, I can say a dozen ugly words to your account, to get a hundred warnings, to get me out of here, but I can't insult you, I can insult you, and you talk so nicely, so wrapped up, when we just remember what you did, when we see what you're doing today, you don't really insult us, but you've offended us. You have greatly offended these pensioners whose name you are calling on. My mother went to that world with a pension of 5,000 dinars. In the Krkobic dynasty, each of them has a tie that costs so much. You don't insult us, but you insulted us. You insult the dignity of the entire people, and don't let us waver with you anymore, for there is no more meaning and no more words. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11060	Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11061	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm calling for an article. Rules of Procedures 225 and 226 so that I could ask the Minister a very important question, as at 11.00 a.m. tobacco producers in the Mačvan County hold a meeting dedicated to subsidies that have not been paid in this year. Only someone, 25% of them, has managed to receive these subsidies, which are actually those who belong to a political party called the Democratic Party. Therefore, I refer to the question that is very important for the minister, to answer both to me and these tortured producers, of which you will probably be filling the 2009 budget, so – will the same producers plant tobacco because they are deceived by the state? You know well when the CEFTA agreement was, that at that time you promised them that there would be subsidies and that this agreement would be applied, at least as far as tobacco producers are concerned. Don't forget that in these winter days one of the greatest heroes and the greatest martyrs is a peasant, who swears he won't sow anything in the next year, that he won't let this government rob him, but still when spring comes, when warm days come and they smell this black country they forget all that and start producing, start working, start building for this government and this country what's most important is that they produce food. So I ask you to speak to certain representatives of your country in the Ministry of Agriculture during the day, because the money has been said to have arrived in the Treasury, but there is no way from the Treasury to find its way to the host and manufacturer who produced tobacco. That's why I think and I think that this issue is needed during the day, before New Year's Eve, and that there is a payment of these subsidies that these tortured peasants deserve, because you know very well that this year has been quite unfortunate for the production of tobacco, in addition to the drought and everything that was present in the production of this industrial plant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11062	Thank you. We are on our way to work, according to MPs' statements for a word in the joint principled search, I would like to inform you that the MPs of all MPs' groups have signed up, according to article 93, paragraph 4 has Mr Djuro Peric, the United Pensions Party. You have six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11063	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will now speak about some budget-related problems, I will not look back on this part. We'll clear it up... The draft budget for next year is designed to stem from the fact that economic growth will slow down in the coming year and that we will have a situation to reduce domestic consumption, to reduce exports, to reduce foreign investments, to slow down the growth of services in the financial sector. All this together when it comes to considering then we come to that finding that the Prime Minister has made here, that it's a restrictive-development budget, which is little to me, I have to admit, at first glance, an absurd term, but I have to say this. I, as some colleagues have said, call me that – Grandpa, I have been through a lot in my life and I have had the opportunity to listen to many budgets and to participate. I must tell you, no budget that is passed can ever meet the needs of all those who are its consumers, or who are looking for certain solutions, whether they are permanent, those who are users by law, whether this is anything else that is extraordinary. I must say that the sum of this budget is actually envisaged for the users of the budget that stem from the law and that very little remains to be called both developmental and social as opportunities for its impact on our overall development. But I'll keep two things tied up to pensions. First, there is one problem, which is that the budget is increasingly taking part in alimony of these needs for the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. In this year, it was about 35%, and in this budget proposal it's even 41%, so it's not a good trend, and it's almost going to go over that percentage from the budget that's supposed to be given for pensions. There's less and less contribution! That contribution is a problem. He is the problem in the first row because the relationship between employees and pensioners is pretty bad, one and a half to one, but in one such situation we have one big problem, which is that for a third of the employees in Serbia are not paying contributions, wages are paid, but contributions are not. If he can't, then we have to do something else. Secondly, 600,000 employees pay their contribution with the lowest amount, and the rest is paid in cash, at hand, which also reduces the entire revenue the Fund would have to make. I have to say that from 1991 to 2003, a million years of internships had to be linked to this world that was in front of retirement, and it lacked that, however, the situation continues to be present. Now, as far as I'm aware, there are about 20 billion outstanding funds for those obligations arising from this part. They have to take sharper measures and find a solution, otherwise, if it falls off, then we're in big trouble. The second question, I was informed from the financial circles of the government, when the IMF gentlemen were here and when they heard that we had in the Pensions Fund property, that they asked – why don't you give that asset to the fund, so let him manage it and thus reduce these liabilities of the pension payment budget? I have to say that there's a law being prepared about this property, that this property is registered, everything is known about it. I think it would be a good idea to put this law on the agenda and to have that property in all the size in which it exists, and it's known exactly to the last dinar what was bought and what could help this fund to be able to capitalize that property in such a way as to recover everything that was given by the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11064	Thank you. The word is Mr. Riza Hallimi. The minority parliamentary group has 8 minutes and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11065	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in short, to engage on this issue, firstly realizing that the 2009 draft budget is the obvious impact of the global financial crisis. The restriction has begun with the rebalancing of this year's budget, so I have the impression that these restrictions are most endangered by the most underdeveloped. In general, it is a story of even regional development, according to it, will again have the fate of those former programmes for the development of undeveloped, which, as we know, have generally failed, have not had success, so that the gap between developed and undeveloped areas is increasing. And Mr. Pastor was just talking about the insignificant resources that the regional development portfolio has within the Ministry of Economy. I will give you more information about the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, which and how they lag behind in this period and it is tightening over the last two years in all economic parameters. I would take an example of Presevo municipality, where the average was 20-25% of the population income per capita, and in recent years it has been reduced to 14% of the national average for Presevo municipality. So seven times the population income in this municipality is less than the municipalities in that average state. It happens just at a time when the Co-ordination Body, as the Government's Authority, works for these municipalities. Now what? At first, this coordination body had a content and structure that corresponded to the armed conflicts that took place in 2000-2001, and by momentum, as we can see, it continues. There is no economic component in that programme, in fact, on paper there is one, but in the field, we have no attempt to improve the economic situation so far. Then the delay is deepened by this treatment and by this lack of development policy, it does not make any sense that this situation is interpreted differently. We first had a half of the funds for the Co-ordination Body in 2007, when we adopted the budget here, and in this and now for the following year, we are predicting a less realistic asset than that half of 2007. It is strange that restrictions due to the global financial crisis are directly reflected in the most underdeveloped, so we are first reducing these funds to municipalities for the next year from 310 million dinars to 273 million dinars and in conditions where in these municipalities these funds are exclusively intended for investment, there are no other funds. Even the 2007 NIP, which forecasts over 100 million dinars there, has not reached around 100 million dinars. In this year, Presevo had 40 million for three electricity projects – none were realised. So, restrictions apply only to the most underdeveloped? This is where you create a fam that is where the basnoslovous means go, and then everyone rejects you, every ministry, they say – you have the Co-ordination Body. What did she have from the Co-ordination Body of Presevo municipalities in 2007 – 75 million dinars, what could have been for investments? This year, 73 has been achieved, and 80 has been planned. Now, let's talk fair -- can 2,000 dinars per capita have some development policies, when in 2005 the average at Serbia level was over 20,000 dinars in general? It is 10 times less, and there are no other funds for investment, or own, because it is, I say, the most underdeveloped municipality, and so is Medvedja, and there is Bujanovac, and if there is no possibility that through the Coordination Body or, if the Coordination Body is not aged, and not until now, from other ministries, from other republican funds of this municipality, they will realize either subsidisation or credit means – then we are condemned, not to tap, but to go back and not to have any development policy. (President: Time. ) I hope, however, here, if you accept the amendment that I have submitted that, at least, something can improve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11066	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11067	I had to report after Mr. Reese Halimi's exposure because I don't think Mr. Halimi represents things the way they really are. The coordination body, truth be told, has less money than it had in the previous years. That's perfectly logical and normal. We are at the door of an economic crisis that is not naive at all, on the one hand, and on the other hand, there are a number of municipalities in Serbia that have not received any extra money, while Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja have been receiving extra money for eight years. This extra money, which we understand immediately, is not managed by the Coordination Body, but managed by the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, in the specific case of Presevo and Bujanovac, the man of the highest power and with the highest responsibility is Mr Riza Halimi, therefore, the extra money amounts only through the Coordination Body and is 64m euros for these three municipalities. That's what's true and that's probably what hurts all the other MPs here, because there was no extra money in their municipalities. Now the Coordination Body, whose head I am, has decided to change politics a little. Our budget is about 400 million, and 273 million, so 70%-60% of the budget continues to go back for transfers that Mr. Shaip will have from the municipality of Bujanovac and Mr. Ades Sadiku the president of Presevo municipality, which are all set up, let's say, by Mr. Riza Halimi. So, again, most of the money will be at your disposal, and we, behold, have taken the right to define some money – for social giving, for education, for education and for some interventions that have obviously not been done so far, or have not been done in a fair way. So, say, we have two schools in Bujanovac. One is called "Sezai Suroi" is a school called "Haj-Tek" – it is a school such as is not available in Belgrade. The second school is "Branko Radcevic" – it is a school such as there is also no school in Belgrade, but in a negative sense. Branko Radcevic's school is a disgrace to see where those kids go, what they look like, what buildings look like. (Dragan Todorovic from the scene: Whose children are going there? Aly, please, if you can't help yourself, can't I talk like this or take away my right to speak from the pay phone? (President: Please allow the Minister to address Parliament and please do not interrupt it. I don't understand what bothers you in my discussion. I'm trying to say something that really hurts. I'm certainly not responsible for why one school is like this and why one school is like that. So that's what it looks like. Now what's the problem? The problem is that the Sezai Suroi school is attended exclusively by Albanian children, and Roma and Serbian children go to the school, Branko Radcevic. That's what it looks like when money flows down, and that's what local politicians decide about. And how does the people live down there – disaster?- I'm sorry. Both Serbs, both Roma and Albanians live in no way, there is no money for anything, there is no development project. Are you responsible for that, Mr. Halimi? So you're the leader of these people down there for 15 years, at least? Do you feel any kind of responsibility? What you've done in Presevo and Bujanovac in recent years. Presevo has brought himself to the brink of existence, Presevo has been blocked by the Islamic community for 300,000 euros at the moment. Is all responsibility in Belgrade? What do you mean you're our only talker, by the way, in politics? There are other leaders down there. Or maybe you're comfortable with this position that we have the Serbian government on one, and on the other, the one for Musli and Ragmi Mustafa? Do you think we will tolerate such events in the future? Do you tell your citizens why they still live with 64m euros as if they were in the 19th century? What kind of leaders are you? Do you see other municipalities in Serbia? People deal with the same money you have, and they look ten times better than yours. Is it possible that the answer is that, say, you're building a water line, a phenomenal water line, millions spent, but no water? Was the former president of the municipality responsible for the construction of that plumbing? Does anyone fit in there when the investment fails? Here's the money, which of the money you spent so needlessly on the Bresnica water line didn't you make any investments? Do you have any industrial zones? Do you happen to have any planning documents? Is Belgrade stopping you from doing that? What's Belgrade doing to you? Did you maybe create a national minority council? Have you as a national council established national symbols? Did you get involved in the work of the Coordination Body? Since August you've been setting me terms, one condition, another condition, third condition – meet the condition, we will enter the Coordination Body! Well, you don't have to go in and not just Belgrade will be responsible for the situation in Presevo and Bujanovac. Those who supported you, both the OSCE and the American ambassador and the British ambassador, so they wrote you a letter and told you what they thought about your policy. Maybe it's time you let some of the younger ones go? Do you think at that dance between Belgrade and Presevo and Bujanovac, you're actually building your permanent position? Does the status quo we have right now suit you? As far as the NIP is concerned, the only fault that the NIP has not done is at the leadership of the Presevo municipality, it's only guilty and you know it, as I know it! Whenever the law is to be implemented, you threaten. What about "Television Presevo"? What about "Television Presevo" where you didn't want it, although the OSCE warned you about it, Mr. Hal Solo Ustad said that in front of a hundred people when we were down on the stands, he warned you that you should comply with the law to submit an application to get the frequency. You didn't want to do that. Don't lie on your shoulders. I asked you - well, Mr. Halimi, who's responsible? There's no responsibility with you. Who is responsible among your colleagues for not submitting applications? Then threaten to block the highway or another time, if we turn off your TV now. You have to understand that you're going to have to commit yourself under the legal system of the state where you live. One day you'll have to highlight the state's markings. You can't live down there like you're not in the Republic of Serbia, and you're using benefits from the Republic of Serbia. These 404 million were collected from Serbian citizens, both this 64 million and these 404 million were collected from taxpayers in Serbia, and you were elected under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I'm telling you that you're going to apply those laws sooner or later, and that's clear to everyone now. Your request here to amend the Coordination Body is based on the most common anti-frontal boiler, which is your request, in fact, is the obstruction you've been doing since I became president of the Coordination Body. Since the day I became president of the Coordination Body, you've been obstructing the work of the Coordination Body! I'm telling you, we're gonna finish our programs in Presevo and Bujanovac. We'll open up the departments of the University of Nietzsk. Albanians will study in Albanian, Serbs in Serbian -- they will have a much better chance than young people across Serbia. We'll keep doing whatever obstruction we have from you. I'm just saying that the way that it's been done so far, where you've been given this kind of money, and you've had that money, that way, it hasn't produced any fruit. Why don't you at least tell the MPs here that the authorities in Bujanovac and Presevo are one-ethnic? In Bujanovac, not only is the president of the municipality, but he is also the deputy president of your party, you don't even share much with coalition partners. Where are the Serbs in the municipal authorities? How many Serbs since 1993, since when have you had control of Presevo, been employed in Presevo municipality? I'm telling you, this isn't gonna work, it's just not gonna work. I sincerely hope the National Assembly won't accept your amendment, because your amendment would mean that the Coordination Body can really be abolished. I just want to tell you one more time, don't think that the citizens, especially the Albanians who elected you, won't one day ask you a question of responsibility – why, after 64m euros that go through the Coordination Body, live just as badly as before that 64m? It's no longer worth threatening by going to the woods or by blocking roads. That's what I said down there. That's what I'm saying here. There's no need for that anymore. I don't think there was a need before, to understand each other right now, but I think you need to change politics, new times have come and these new times are looking for new people. Be sure, I'll talk to you in Presheva and Bujanovac with everyone, not just you. I don't think you should talk to Mr. Musli or Mustafa or anyone else, but I won't agree to any blackmail, even if none of you want to talk to Belgrade, the government and me, we'll be conducting our programmes, and you'll wonder why so much ghettoisation is in Presevo and Bujanovac, where you're still the most responsible. Belgrade did not create power in Presevo and Bujanovac. It is you who are the most responsible and cannot be guilty of Belgrade because your municipalities look like 19th-century municipalities. You yourself are the authority in these municipalities and you are not able to do anything yourself, and even to implement programmes from the National Investment Plan, which were able to realise 99% of the municipalities in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11068	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure. You can't replica a minister, but you can do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11069	Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. It's impossible in three minutes to answer all these charges. Let's go first, there's a lot of misunderstandings and ignorance of some basic things and parliamentary life. Mr. Markovic is questioning why I'm here. I guess you do! I'm here because I have 17,000 votes from Albanians Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje and some Belgrade and other centres where Albanians live. We should take that dilemma off right now. For absolutely nothing else, what I've just said, I've brought forth as their legitimate representative. I invite you to come down, get out there with this information or misinformation. You didn't come to the Presevo Assembly, you didn't come to the Bujanovac Assembly when there were armed conflicts, the Deputy Prime Minister came to the Presevo Assembly, we argued, we openly criticised or we were criticised. You don't come to SO Presevo and SO Bujanovac, you ignore them, and you bring them out here, because you have the privilege of endlessly discussing, a series of incorrect, unverified information. The highest home of this country is being misinformed! Let's say it out loud. Where's the money? I've provided you with an analysis. The Presevo municipality received a billion and 155 million, according to the Coordination Body, in nine years, of which: less than a billion arrived to the municipality, the rest went beyond other institutions and on average, if we included it, it was 129 million dinars per year, and per capita, 3,000 and six hundred dinars per capita. Compare whether there can be a valid development policy annually with the funds of 3,000 and six hundred dinars. Compare that with other municipalities, with the investments that are separated in the state, and you'll see that's impossible. In this situation, it's not true that we have the privilege of Presevo getting 75 million dinars last year. We didn't get more than 75 million dinars, but these are the funds Presevo had from all the ministries. They're returning us, anywhere we can contact, even at the NIP. It is not true that the president of the municipality was not at Mrs Kalanovic several times, and I was also with Mr Skundric, so the president of the municipality spoke on the phone and who knows how many times he was in these ministries and failed to achieve three 40 million projects, 30 was intended for the railway station where 70% of the Serb population lives. But thinking, according to this logic of Mr. Markovic, that Albanians there are doing something, they also refused. I think it's a matter of lack of interest... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and the continuing unpreparedness and inability to lead such an important state body that was meant to advance, not to improve that area... (President: Time, Mr. Halimi. )......................................................................................................... which has certainly been neglected, due to the inadequate state policy that has been implemented for decades. And why does Mr. Markovic take the responsibility of those previous periods? I don't get it. He just got here. Why does he have a mortgage in the past, when he's gone, why is he taking over?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11070	Minister Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11071	I don't have a mortgage, Mr. Halimi. I respect what Mr. Covic did, and what Mr. Ljajic did. I think they've been doing extremely well and I think they've given you a lot more trust than you deserve. The data is clear, 64m euros went through the Co-ordination Body in the form of transfers for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. In addition, these three municipalities are regularly financed as well as any other municipalities under the Law on the financing of local self-government. This is extra money, this is money outside money that is obtained in other parts of the Republic of Serbia. You asked why you were here. I welcome that you are here, and in the last term I asked Albanian politicians to participate in the elections and you should be here, but I ask you – are you here thanks to a very interesting policy of sitting on two chairs? Little Belgrade, little Presevo and Bujanovac, little to say what Musli and Mustafa like, little to say in Belgrade what the government and Belgrade like. My question is, what have your citizens' policies voted for you, first of all from your policy in Presevo and Bujanovac? You cannot transfer responsibility for the situation in Presevo and Bujanovac to Belgrade. You've got citizens' trust, you're the government there, you're not able to build any industrial zone, you're not able to offer any, not to tell the investor what kind of pay you'd bring down, you're the ones who can't make co-existence among people. To make things worse, it's total ghettoisation, worse than it was three or four years ago. Everything is divided into Serbs, Albanians and Roma. Just that little town center reminds me of some multiethnicity. The first time we have one-ethnic authorities, we don't have any officials in Presevo and Bujanovac that he's a Serb. All Albanians are officials. You're saying I'm not coming. A month ago, we had a meeting between you, me and the entire leadership in Presevo municipality, and I commended that I saw the Serbian flag at the entrance to the building, but of course you don't have any offices. I was in Bujanovac four times in two and a half months in southern Serbia. I don't know which president of the Coordination Body came more than the time they were armed with facts. I'm telling you again, gun facts are in the past. No one agrees to live in the past anymore. We don't want to think about the past anymore. We think a lot about the past, we'll lose the future. It's up to you to decide whether you want to turn to the future or whether you want to continue this way until the end of your political engagement until retirement. The Belgrade-Presevo-Bujanovac communication will no longer depend solely on you, Mr Halimi. The coordination body will do the programs that have started, these programs will be in line with the provisions of this budget, as it is, we would like it to be more, but there is no, no one can get more than we have, and will you agree that we do it or not, it seems to me that it no longer matters, as I have fully raised my hands from asking you to enter the Coordination Body, your responsibility is to your voters to explain why you do not enter the Coordination Body, the Coordination Body will continue to work as it has so far. I repeat, I've had three or four blackmails since I became president of the Coordination Body. So do this and we'll do this, and we'll do that, and now I'm telling you no more, Mr. Halimi, no more blackmail. These three municipalities will be like all other municipalities in Serbia in a few years, and this 200 million you are now getting will be a distant past. Think carefully if in the next two three years you will try to change something, so that your fellow citizens will live better. If you do not want to, make peace with the fact that for two or three years, you will have to compete with all other municipalities in Serbia, because both Presevo and Bujanovac are no better or as soon as they are in charge of this country, in order to have special privileges compared to Kursumlia, compared to Batocino, compared to Subotica or any other local self-government. So it'll be the same for everyone. All will have to comply equally with the law and all will have to behave as is appropriate to one legal and civilised state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11072	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure again. Mr. Halimi, there's only a minute and a half left for your MP group. You can use it if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11073	It really came to me suddenly because of what I said at the beginning, and it's nothing personal or absolutely unverified. This anxiety is about things being wrong, not going! And the justifications that condition the state, or I condition the state, which power do I have to condition the state? With what? Gentlemen, it is not true that Albanians have refused work in the Coordination Body and co-operation with the Co-ordination Body. It's misinformation. It's a tactics, to justify the unhappiness and absolute inability to solve problems, then the simplest thing is that we're not interested, they condition. That's not true! With what? Who could refuse that co-operation if the real problems could be solved. I'm talking about not solving problems. They're not extra funds. I'm talking about the fact that for regular action that's by law, that sales tax, it's been before. VAT - where is it collected? Well, in Preshevo. How much is collected from the border crossing? We participate as any other municipality in the distribution of that VAT or other tax funds. It's absolutely no privilege. I'm only talking about the investment assets that we had in this period, exclusively, by the coordination body. It's been working for a while, during Mr. Covic's time. We're openly saying it's no good now. It's not good now! Let's not twist, now I'm talking about one fact here that there's no extra help in education. In fact, the state has not invested a penny on Albanian higher education in this area for decades. And now what are we offered? The opening of a university in Medvedja, where there was a higher school so far. For what? For employees who would work to qualify further. The Faculty of Cobayages of Albanians is now opening, and only 1% of Albanian live in Medvedja. We know that in 1999 they fled massively. They're not here. There's only 700 of them. Now what? Kobajagi, an economic college opens for Albanians, let's say for Albanians, and where does it open? In the bear, which is 160km away and does not open where there is 99%, between 50 and 55 000 Albanians. (President: Time. ) I don't think it makes sense that the transfer funds – what these municipalities need for economic development – are missing. Corridor 10 is a monopoly firm from Belgrade. At the border crossing, gentlemen, the Albanians do not work, for it is few Serbs from both Presevo and Bujanovac but come from other municipalities. Just for comparison, I'm telling you that from the economy there's nothing going on or something has been tried so far to bring the economy back to life. And out of 4,811 employees in municipal, state authorities and institutions, education and healthcare, only there are people who are sure to receive salaries, everything else has failed, of which 2,672 are Serbs, 2057 are Albanians and only 63 Roma. Every ninth is a Serb, every 28 Albanians, every 70 Roma.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11074	Mr. Halimi, you've been talking for a minute and a half longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11075	And that's the situation we're in right now. As for the Bujanovac Central Educational Centre, whose facility was usurped by the Yugoslav Army in 1992, they worked for several years in a primary school building in Bujanovac, then moved to waste barracks, which were built 40 years ago, barely started building a new facility, which is now under construction. How come now once a minister, president of the Coordination Body, to find only that detail to build a new school. We are not engaged in the construction of a new medium economic and for Serbs in Bujanovac. It was just the political parties of Serbs who did not want, when USAID offered to build a new facility, to study and work together at a school. Go and ask your DS representative in Bujanovac, if he then agreed with USID representatives that Albanians and Serbs are learning together in one facility. You'll see that they refused. If you go out with this little bit out, then you want to justify yourself, in my opinion, a debacle that is expressed in the light of this budget, in which it is presented, imagine, from the position of the building and the facilities... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... 60 million dinars are scheduled for the realisation of rural projects with the Serb population, imagine, to prevent emigration.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11076	Mr. Halimi, you were supposed to speak for three minutes, and you speak for six full minutes, you enter the seventh, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11077	This information is important to me. We have this situation that from 1991 to 2002 there are fewer than 1100 Serbs, 10,000 and seven hundred Albanians and some 600 to 700 Roma in these three municipalities. A country's budget should be set up to explain that special funds are being allocated to prevent only Serbs from evicting, which I think is a political debacle, and this is indeed a political disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11078	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11079	This is what our conversations look like and out of this house. How can you say that 1% of Albanians in Medvedja, when elections are held, there are 26.17% of Albanians on the vote list? Then what are you doing? Give us an answer to the question, do you really live down there, Albanians, or do you only show up when elections are and when should you come to power? How now 1%? This is amazing, when statistics officially say that 26% of Albanians are in Medvedja. Why are we opening a college in Medvedja? Because with the successful and capable leadership of Bujanovec and Presevo, there's nothing we can do about it, or even that damn building, where we'd open up college. In Medvedja, fortunately, we have a capable president of the municipality, so we manage to make a deal with him. We were able to figure out where the college would be and translate the books. It's not just any college. It is the University of Nis, and the Faculty of Law and Economics of the University of Nis, where Albanians, Serbs and Roma will be able to learn in their own language. We'll translate their books. I know it bothers you, because you're talking about 1991, 1992. You like to live in that time. That time gives you political strength. This time requires answers to questions – what about improving people's lives based on the money this country has given these people? The state of Serbia gave for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedju 64m euros, to make these people live better. What is it, Mr. Halimi, 38 million dinars is a water line in the Bujanovac municipality, where are you an uncircumcised master, Mr. Riza Halimi? What about 38 million dinars? Where's the water? Here it is collected, in Belgrade, that tax was collected, in Kragujevac, Nis, to give our fellow Albanians and our fellow Serbs and Roma citizens in these three municipalities to arrange the water supply. 38 million dinars have been dropped, no one knows where to get the water from. There's no idea where to get the water. Water was built, and there's no water. Is it our fault the Islamic community sued the Presevo municipality? Be careful, please, this. What does the state of Serbia have to do with it? The Islamic Community and Presevo municipalities are fighting, Presevo municipality manages to lose a 300 000-euro dispute with its intellectual, legal capacity and is now blocked. Is the coordination body wrong again? When will you be guilty of something in Presevo and Bujanovac? Belgrade cannot be blamed all the time for what is happening in Presevo and Bujanovac. Is it our fault you didn't want to submit the TV app? Come on, come out here and explain what's going on with "Television Presevo." What's it interest to threaten now, I'm afraid you'll be on the streets if you close Presevo TV, and you don't ask what it's like in Serbia when TV closes, for the same reason you need to close Presevo TV. On the other hand, we are making a television that is also Albanian and man operating on market principles. He's a man in shock. He says -- I respect the law of this country, he applied, got the frequency, and now, he says, he has competition in Presevo Television, which is being assisted by Presevo Municipality. I don't understand at all, so I'm telling you, it seems to me that your story is slowly losing ground. I think you understand that after the letter sent to you by the ambassador of the United States and the ambassador of Great Britain. I don't know if your fellow Albanians know about the letter you received. I think it's clear that this policy that you've been propagating here and that you're propagating down in Presevo and Bujanovac, it's simply not going to survive anymore. I have no intention of agreeing to give you another 60 million dinars, nor those 60 million dinars mean a lot to you, whether you have 270 or 330 to have in Presevo and Bujanovac and Bear, that doesn't mean much to you. Your amendment is only meant to bind my hands and to be as chairman of the Coordination Body the most ordinary signator of the account that you will be making in Presevo and Bujanovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11080	Mr. Riza Halimi. First, Mr. Todorovic answered, and then Mr. Nikolic answered and so did you. Mr. Rizzo, you'll have to wait. Mr. Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11081	I reported immediately after Mr. Markovic's presentation, however, I felt that this discussion should end primarily between Mr. Markovic and Mr. Reese Halimi and then go out for a pay phone. Given that this is the situation, here's to say a few things about what we've heard here in this presentation, above all, Mr Markovic and Reese Halimi. I can only say that because of this speech at another time, Serbia was bombed. I would not give up a single word at any moment, not a single word from what Mr. Milan Markovic said, but I fully support it. We've been through this process, too. Remember what Serbia has been trying to do when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. This is about two municipalities in particular now, but Medvedja is still something different and is forced into force, but the same situation was when it came to Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the SRS is concerned, we took part in this very short time, and precisely because of the danger that prevailed over Kosovo and Metohija in 1998, we realized the situation of the state of Serbia, that is, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and we did everything, everything that was up to us, to try to defend what we could defend. It's the same situation, the exact same thing, all the attempts to make a deal, to find a common language, they came across silence. I mean, 27 times the government went to Pristina to make a deal, but unlike today's situation, now the US and English ambassadors, and the other ambassadors, advised the Albanians -- don't agree, don't agree. Because their goal was to have no agreement, their goal was to bring the situation to the point where Serbia would be bombed. They made us accept the OSCE mission, accept William Walker, an American intelligence expert in such a crisis that... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, go down to speed and create the situation, use Racak, deceive the whole world, order that such a report be made that led to Serbia being bombed. Unlike you, we will support all efforts by the state of Serbia, both the ministries and the co-ordination body for Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, to support this position in which it is located and to endure in this and to finally have the same authority in these two municipalities of Serbia as it does in other municipalities around Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11082	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11083	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we should stop here. It's easy to attack Riza Halimi now that he's been written by American and English ambassadors. Now you've all become too strong and too ossions. He represents his people and, Minister, I cannot let you say here that you stop trying to talk and talk him out of it. You have to try as long as you're down there. Nothing, you bang, you hero, you talk to that people down there, it's the easiest thing to do, and you know very well, if that people don't want to cooperate, Serbia won't establish its powers down there. Or do you think we can beat them up? So, you drag them into the system, don't give up the conversation, it's ours, as Serbs, to offer them constantly and to talk to them all the time. Minister, your nerves are about to end. You've lost your patience too quickly. You have to show more patience. I know, a little spark is enough, enough to sit down and decide, we join Kosovo. What are we gonna do? Are we going to fight there? Come on. Whenever Serbia needs help, if it comes to the end, you know where we'll be. But let's try to avoid it. If because of you one, Minister, we need to fear what's going to happen down there, it's not right. I don't know if you've consulted your own. It's easy when they put you down from Belgrade, with Palilu, that you lose your nerve. That's why you shouldn't have been the head of the Coordination Team but someone who was born in Kosovo and Metohija or in southern Serbia, someone who knows what needs to be done, someone who's given up so far to be better, to be quieter. That's how I look at politics. The final funds are always available, and before the final funds, now I hear why there is no in public, why there is no in the assembly debate, now I hear that you have raised your hands from talking to the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac – do not raise the hands of the minister. It's not far. You're probably on a helicopter, too. It's not a big problem. (President: Time. Don't. Please, in Serbia's interest to calm your nerves, if you can't calm them down, let someone come and calm down, I'm done. I'm sorry. I think the subject is very serious. Riza Halimi only gets it, if he wants to be the leader of Albanians who do not want to live in Serbia, only you attack him here, he will finish the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11084	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11085	Your speech is wise, Mr. Nikolic. I'm glad you're resonating. It's only not wise that you tried to qualify for what I'm saying here. I'm talking about money here, I'm talking about how much the lives of Albanians have progressed in eight years based on the fact that the Republic of Serbia, which the citizens of this country have given 64m euros of extra money down to Albanian leaders in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, where the multiethnic government is mixed. I didn't give up, I just said I wouldn't really ask anyone anymore. Mr. Halimi is setting me a little, a little, a new condition. As if the Republic of Serbia can't live unless, here's the Coordination Body, Mr. Halimi, and his colleagues from his party. I said there are other parties down there, there are other Albanians down there. Not all Albanians are followers of Mr. Halimi in this policy. I think it would be even less if we had information about how much the Republic of Serbia did and how much they got from what the Republic of Serbia did. I'm not going on a helicopter. I don't know what that intruder means to you. I'm not going on a helicopter. So, it was nice of this speech of yours to introduce you in the light of how you want to introduce yourself, I respect that, I welcome you. No one here threatens Mr. Halimi. He is the Messenger of the people, and He is welcome. I will not allow Mr. Halimi to succeed in obstructing the work of the Co-ordination Body by pushing through his amendment and what little money the state should have down there, to also have Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear. We've seen what their availability looks like. You want another piece of information? So let's agree to build a road. The Luciani-Dobrosin road is being built, exclusively an Albanian environment, is not controversial and should be built equally for all environments, although that was not the case, but come on. It's supposed to be built, he says, give it to you from the Coordination Body 21 million, and we'll give the rest from our budget. You know what happened? The coordination body gives 21 million and 700,000 dinars, and the Bujanovac doesn't give money again. Then they come and say, "The works are going down, the truth is the works are going down, the works are going down, the rain is starting, the road isn't finished, you know!" How, what are we going to do, and in the end, it comes to the PPP doing it for free, and it is still again likely that the state of Serbia will cover it. I'm just saying, let's establish responsibility. It is not responsibility for life in Presevo, Bujanovac, Belgrade, because Belgrade has done everything it could, it is not responsibility for the work of the Co-ordination Body alone. Let's see what Mr. Riza Halimi and his colleagues have done, let them come out and say, here, from the money we got, we have thus defined life in Presevo and Bujanovac. We've opened up so many new jobs. We've opened up so many industrial zones. We've done the planning documentation. Look at the number of people here who were presidents of the municipalities and everybody knows what I'm talking about. I was the president of the municipality and your party and all the other parties have so many municipalities that they operate and you all know what I'm talking about. No, their policy only comes down to statements about the alleged threat to law. When I became Minister, Presevo and Bujanovac, some strange scheme of circumstances, had no right to use stamps in their own language, bilingual. Do you think Mr. Riza Halimi or anyone else has called to tell me that my predecessor, Mr. Lonchar, has missed making it right? No, I don't. I thought I'd fix it myself! I'm asking you why, why didn't Mr. Riza Halimi ask me? We had a great relationship before that. Why didn't he call on the phone and say, Minister, correct it so you don't give us the right to stamp. No, it doesn't suit him. It doesn't suit him! That's what I didn't see. Many have seen through, especially those international entities that participate in solving these problems in Presevo and Bujanovac. They saw Mr. Halim fit the status quo. Because if we move from that status quo, then we go to some new times, a new policy is looking for new people, probably, new topics are being imposed, employment, education, the civil sector. These are topics that are of interest to the Coordination Body. That's why Mr. Halimi and I disagree. We see things differently. They're interested in us transferring hundreds of millions to them and they're paved the streets, where they want to pave the way for them to think it's going to change something. Nothing's changed. So 64m euros didn't help anything, nothing. We've brought so far that even our children go to different schools. Now it bothers Mr. Halimi that I want to do things differently. I want to work differently. I don't want you to be the monopolies down there. I don't want you to be the one to decide life down there. I want to keep 20% of that budget and that the state of Serbia, the government, can help someone down there, so that Roma can get textbooks. No Roma child has any textbooks, nothing to learn from. I want to provide Albanian children with textbooks for colleges. I don't want young Albanians going to study. I don't know where. I want young Albanians to study here at home, in their own language. I want to buy translation machines, I want to pay for the translator. Do you mind? Is that what's bothering you? I want to introduce scholarships. How many scholarships did you give as a municipality of Preshevo and Bujanovac? No, you took an official car to Pristina to arrange 190 places to study there and you went to Tirana to arrange 175 more places to study there, and I don't want to send those kids there or anywhere else. I want them to study here at home. And I need this money to provide them with that study. With or without you, young Albanians will be able to study in Bujanovac, they will be able to study both in Presevo and in their own language, and a college that is really worth it and whose diploma is really worth it. According to the Bologna Declaration, they'll be able to go anywhere in the world with that degree. I'm going to offer scholarships to keep these kids up and up and down, so tomorrow we can get a lawyer who'll be better at running disputes than your lawyer who managed to lose to the Islamic community 300,000 euros. And you need to explain what you have against this policy. Why don't you want to do it this way. I won't answer my word again. I only ask the MPs not to accept Mr. Halimi's amendment, because that amendment means the status quo. The amendment only benefits him and that policy. This budget, which we have made, even though narrowed and poor and modest, gives the children a chance, gives the Roma a chance, gives the Albanians a chance, gives young Serbs a chance. It's our program, to make life down there real, that down there three municipalities can live alone from their work, not that there's this coordination body. My goal is that the Coordination Body ceases to exist in a few years. We need to train three municipalities to be independent in their development. The Medvedja municipality has done it, very soon we will open the Leca mine, we will open the university, the Medvedja municipality will have more or less solved problems, not all, will live as other municipalities in Serbia, but there will be no need for the intervention of the Co-ordination Body. Are we gonna make it in Presevo and Bujanovac? I'm telling you we will. It's just going to go a little harder because you don't want to get rid of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11086	Gentlemen, the delicateness of the dialogue prevents me from reminding you that the agenda is something we should return to, and I am not disabling the possibility and not excluding claims that this is all very important. Just to read to you who answered, Mr. Velimir Ilic, given that he is the head of the parliamentary group, you have the word, Mr. Ilic. Mr. Radoslav Mojsilović, Riza Halimi and Ivan Andric reported, and perhaps we could really bring the end then and take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11087	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I really don't understand you from the ruling coalition. What do you want today? What are you talking about here, Minister? You entertain us and talk about Bears, tell fairy tales about Presevo, Bujanovac, Riza. What's this about? Is it your goal to adopt the budget or not? Right now on the radio, the prime minister is saying that temporary funding is good and that everything is prepared for it. We've been sitting here listening to you for half an hour, Mr. Minister. Do you want to adopt the budget?- I'm sorry. You won't. You're going on temporary funding and don't accuse the opposition. I don't understand anything you're saying. What are you talking about? You've been talking about Bear for half an hour. The subject is the budget. Did you come here to defend the budget or to advertise the Bear, about universities, where you open, where you do what you do, how you do it, etc. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, get serious. The budget's on the agenda. Do you understand? Hope, do something, you're a safe woman. Control the ministers. Please bring order to Parliament, return to the subject and let go of these stories that are of no value to anything. I know that you don't have the funds, that the vault is empty, that you don't know where you're going and what you're going to do next year, that it suits you with temporary funding and say, "People, we deliberately obstruct our own budget, because we don't know what we're going to do with this power that we've got." Therefore, we return to the subject and do not accuse the opposition again. I'd like to ask Boris Tadic to look at these videos and see what he sent you here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11088	Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. What is the member of the Rules of Procedure, 225 or 226?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to make things right this time. I said that one percent of Albanians from Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje currently live in Medvedja, as there are only about 600-700 Albanians left. If we take the total population of these three municipalities as 60 grand, that's about 1%. There are 2,000 and seven hundred or 2,000 and eight hundred on the list, but they are located as displaced persons in Pristina, Kosovo Poland, Gjilan. They have no conditions to return. Who's stopping them from being right? I didn't quite understand Mr. Minister, he questioned their right to come to vote when elections are held. If you didn't provide them with living conditions, why don't you come and vote if they're citizens of this municipality. That's one thing. I asked, where did college come from, which should solve the problem of Albanian higher education, right in Medvedja and not in Presevo and Bujanovac, where about 60,000 Albanians live? I said it was illogical. It's not just impractical, it's discriminatory. There's manipulation behind this. Kobajagi solves the problem of Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji as far as higher education is concerned, and those living in Presevo, Bujanovac, cannot leave on purpose. I wonder who is preventing Albanians from studying in Pristina, Tetovo, Tirana, when this country has so far failed to provide conditions, and by opening up the first year some next year, both legally and economically. What about the other colleges, gentlemen? Will all Albanians now, according to the Chinese system, be in one mold? It doesn't make sense. Let's move on, if the Presevo TV applied, it's not true she didn't apply. They've been denied. They participated in the tender and competition announced by RATEL, but were simply rejected because they did not meet certain conditions. That's a fact. Next, the threat of getting out on the highway, I first heard from Mr. Secretary. Protests are possible. And I will organize them if they really continue with this kind of policy! But no one has ever announced that they're going out on the highway before! (President: Mr. Halimi, will you focus on the reason I gave you my word, not on organising protests.) Please. I accept the suggestion. Let's move on. The community of religion, gentlemen, I accept the weakness of the District Attorney. But that decision was made by both the first and second degree, both in Presevo and Vranj. (President: Time. () Where were they to protect public and general interest? Or logic – it is better for the municipality to pay than for the state, and according to the Law on Restitution, it is the obligation of the state to return the nationalised property to religious communities. Why do you give such state privileges to the Presevo municipality – that it is now financing both the church and the Islamic community, instead of doing so by the state. These really are illogical things. (President: Time. ) While abroad has already been mentioned, the CAF, which ended its programme two years ago in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, and our budget in the explanation, still holds that part of these funds will be directed into projects that will be implemented together with US CAF. For so many years, the Coordination Body has been functioning, and it does not know that the international community, which has done very good projects in the area, has already completed its operation two years ago. Now it's about economics... (President: Mr. Halimi, will you bring the end? )......................................................................................................... But in the Ministry of Economy, in the Government, they still haven't found it appropriate to engage in the economic development of this municipality, so that, together with USAID, UNDP and the European Agency, they work on the plan. We wait, Mr. Markovic, for this excellent body, for the government to finally start working with international donors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11090	The word is Mr. Ivan Andric. Here you go. Let Mr Miroslav Markicevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11091	I really wanted to join the efforts of President Slavica. I'm calling in an article. 104 and 113. Article 113 states that the provisions of this Rules of Procedure relating to the session shall apply to all other participants in the sitting. So, I have to warn you that this pay phone has been really abused at least five times in the last hour and a half from the Minister for Local Self-Government or, before, the head of the Coordination Body, or whatever. So, the debate is about the budget, and the finance minister is out. It is very clear that now it is our intention to play here and listen to the shooting, whose data or arguments, which are being used, none of the MPs know anything. Mr. Minister, if it is your intention to discuss it, schedule a session of the Assembly, share the material, and see who the criminal is, who the thief, who the Serb, who the Albanian, who the Roma, who the school builds, where the school is built. This really humiliates the Assembly and the budget debate. On the other hand, I would refer to Mr. Ilic. Mr. Ilich, you're right about one point, but you're not. Every day this session costs four million dinars of budget to be adopted, it is 30 million dinars, 30 million to give them an excuse to move to temporary funding, which they have already passed on to, instead of in November, by providing us with a budget of 20 December. 30 million dinars were thrown into the declared savings, recession, and I don't know what. Mr. Markovic, if it makes you happy, stop this session, give the 30 million to Presevo and move to temporary funding, so when you're ready to talk about the budget, we'll hold that session. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11092	MPs have the opportunity to make an effective budget vote. We have the possibility, no matter what we estimate it may be, someone wants one or the other, to announce the budget. The word is Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11093	President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I really don't know, Mr. President, what kind of opportunity we have. Is it some kind of secret possibility or something in the Rules of Procedure written in invisible ink, and so far no one knew. I think we should go back to the budget. It's not Riza Halimi, Mr. Minister. In this House, this has happened before, in the last session, when he was going out. You've gone too far! I don't get into what's going on out there, but the fact is they have problems. I'm sorry, non-recognition diploma and... The fact is, he had to dig, given the circumstances, he's next to our MP's group, so we've got contact with him. We want you to adopt that budget. That's why we're here. Let go of these stories and attacks on Riza Halimi, it may be a good excuse to delay the debate, but the fact is that real problems exist there. I don't understand, Mr. Minister, how can you say there are other Albanians. Well, he participated in the elections, he has some support for the citizens, he may have other parties, but they didn't want to participate in the elections. I don't think it's generally good for democracy either, he represents that people there until the next election. Maybe after the next election they won't represent, maybe some others will represent, I don't know. We helped them collect signatures just out of the desire to have a representative and don't disqualify him now when you say there are some other Albanians there, so we'll go with them, and you, Riza... He has legitimacy, he's a folk MP, he's an Albanian, he's a Serbian citizen, and I only appeal to him to treat him with due respect, because it's not the first time he's experienced anything here. I'm not getting into it, but I'm appealing, the minister's back, so we can get back to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11094	The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11095	I want to be extremely constructive. So since you mentioned the possibility that there's a way to adopt the budget, here, I'm making a concrete proposal. I suggest that the Minister, and the Government, accept all amendments submitted by the opposition and the DSS and we can if there are any disagreements and contradictions in the course of the day to discuss it. I suggest we put out a budget tonight. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11096	I am only taking this opportunity to inform the MPs and the public, although the heads of parliament have already been informed that on the subject of the budget, the heads of parliament will be meeting with the Prime Minister and Madam Minister tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. So it will be an opportunity to meet the amendments somewhere and discuss the possibility of effective work and the adoption of the Budget Law. The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11097	Dear Presidents, respected minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, after more than an hour and a half of obstruction of the minister, who has now come out, we return to the agenda topic. Unfortunately, in the short time that belongs to the NS Parliament Club, I will try to make some remarks that NS lawmakers have on this draft budget. First of all, I would like to address Madam Minister and say that I would, with respect and most sincerely, accept the apology that you gave at the beginning to all of us here in the Assembly that it was sincere. In countries where a similar economic situation is happening, as is yet to happen in our, therefore, economic crisis, both the authorities and the opposition, and trade unions and employers, and NGOs and all together to make some kind of compromise and bring the best solutions in the interests of most Serbian citizens. For a month and more, as the budget was late, or as it did not come in time to the Assembly, by law, you spent that time to settle your within the ruling coalition. That's why you're late with this budget. The argument was how much the ministry would get, how many ministers, how many cabinets, not what would happen to Serbian citizens. In crises like this, and this wave, unfortunately, will happen to our country, will pay the weakest. In our country for many years, regardless of the option currently in power, the most paid by the poor, sick, powerless, unemployed. From this budget I wanted to give that social note, the social line, and that from some items and items here we see how you treat these citizens. First, you signed with the unions an extension of the general collective agreement, signed by the Prime Minister, who two or three hours ago, to let you know if you don't know, on a radio show, he was talking about temporary funding and he wasn't talking about the budget. There is good will, she also saw the president at the consultations this morning, and the opposition to adopt the budget, but you think that temporary funding is better because of the lack of money and unreal items in the budget, primarily because of some ministers, let me say, Mladjan Dinkic, who is prime minister number 2 and Prime Minister is nominal number 1 Mirko Cvetkovic, and because of what his ministries have won. But to return to that famous amendment, because you misinformed journalists here in the hallway I must tell you, to remind you of the last letter you sent me, the ball is in the Ministry of Youth and Sports. You know, laws and amendments to the law don't enforce opposition MPs, it's done by the government, ma'am. Call your colleague, the sports minister who won't do anything. Furthermore, in this budget, in due time, I will have to speak quickly, only to show you some items, so that the citizens of Serbia will see how the ruling coalition, or government, takes care of the citizens of Serbia. For the implementation of the programme to encourage the birth of children – 4 million and 300,000 dinars. I don't think we should comment. Prevention of suicides and violence in young people – 4 million. Every night in the media, we are covered with violence among young people or young people, and for this prevention, we have predicted only 4 million. The promotion and health care of women in menopause – one million and a half dinars, alone. Early detection and prevention of diabetes in Serbia – 2 million dinars. Prevention of blindness in premature children – 6 million and 100,000 dinars. And some cabinets, which is why I was warned last time by the president, so, counselors and counselors, presidents, there are 41 in one cabinet, and they're going to spend the next year, according to your budget that you've given, say, 71 million. Now the minister will come out and deny me, as counterpart Todorovic asks who. Only – 88 million are provided for local medical facilities. I have to point out to you only one piece of information from the municipality from which I come from, from the town of Cačka, that the municipality has invested only in two health hospitals with sanitas, in Trnava and Bresnica, 10 million people will continue to be saved from the health ministry they will, especially in the rural area, to remove the hospitals under the pretext that they are not well equipped. And then, local self-government, no matter what it may not be, they're trying to help the citizens. As you view citizens and various organizations, I will only mention once more, because of the time I have left, how you treat various NGOs and associations. Imagine, Madam Minister, the Association of Kidnapped, Kidnapped and Killed is not a budget user! You should go there to New Belgrade in front of the pay wall, and explain to the mother who gave the only son for this country why she is not a budget user. She doesn't need anything anymore now that she's lost her only son. It just needs to be heard the truth, and it needs a little money to be heard not only by those who are unhappy but also by Serbia and the whole world. Now look at the second piece of information, Madam Minister. The culture minister recently gave an organization called "Quiria" from the budget of about 300,000 dinars. Those who are better informed know what the "Quirija" is doing, and I am asking the official question to Mr. Culture Minister, given which organisation he gave that money and what the organisation is dealing with – is the minister not in conflict of interest? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11098	The word is Mr. Kasalovic, SPS-JS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11099	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the role of the budget is political, economic, stabilisation, related to the goals the state plans to achieve in its one-year operation. It is also possible to say that the budget is a government-controlled political programme. This is why it is necessary, among other things, to adopt the 2009 draft budget in order to start the government's programme and objectives in early 2009, especially in the conditions of expectations of the global financial crisis on Serbia's economy, primarily through the decline of stock prices, slowed exports, industrial production, reduced credits. Of course, always when creating a budget proposal, one number of users remains and is dissatisfied because when it comes from the user's plans and the analysis of these requirements, it is generally found that several times more income is needed than available to make them all real. This was also implicated by this draft budget, and therefore it was necessary to identify priority areas of funding, which the government did and this proposal does indeed represent, it can be said, and an expression of current opportunities under the conditions of negative effects of the global financial crisis, i.e. an attempt to define the government's best response to the upcoming challenges in 2009. In the most basic sense of the 2009 draft budget, which can take into account certain priorities of government policy in 2009, would primarily be that it seeks to be relatively modest and thrifty, since the proposed amount of budget resources is set at 698.8 billion dinars on the receiving side, with a nominal increase of 10% compared to 2008 revenue estimates, and expenditures of 748.8 billion dinars, which provides a deficit of around 50 billion dinars or 1.5% of gross social product, which is significantly less than in 2008 and is moving, which is very significant, in terms of agreements with the IMF, also with realistically planned, adjusted, growth of gross social product in 2009, at around three, and possibly three percent, and expected to assess the rate of inflation rates. In this way, the 2009 budget plan fully respects and confirms the agreement with the IMF that envisions the withdrawal of $520m of credit, which further strengthens our financial position in 2009 and presents a clear message to all, especially potential foreign investors about the possible satisfactory degree of stability of our country in 2009, i.e., a particularly significant signal that good economic policy is being conducted in Serbia in terms of the global financial crisis. The budgets have defined a strict profit policy for around 560 000 people who receive salaries from the budget, in the sense that they can grow to an inflation rate level of 8% in 2009, with a reduction in subsidies by 15% and the idea of better control of funds and beneficiaries of funds, however, providing a satisfactory amount of subsidies in 2009. The planned transfer funds have been assured that a single 10% pension increase remains in place and thus lessens the effects of the financial crisis and transition by about a million and 630,000 pensioners in Serbia. The 2009 draft budget respects the state leadership's decision to launch a unilateral implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU, as of 1 January 2009. In this respect, a projection of customs revenue has been corrected and a reduction of customs duties on imports of industrial and agricultural products of 27.7% compared to the projected revenues in 2008. On the other hand, excise revenues are planned at 116.8 billion dinars, which represents an increase of 14.2% compared to the expected revenue in 2008 and an attempt to replace about 15 billion dinars on the revenue side with the changed excise policy. Also, a significant part of 2009 revenue will be made up of dividends that public companies will invest in a budget of 12.9 billion dinars, noting that there are probably more internal reserves in this part of the revenue, and that our public enterprises can contribute even more significantly to better budget revenue, of course, and with more concrete government measures in that direction. Assumptions have been created that capital projects of national interest providing new employment are and are government priorities, such as: Corridor 10. It encourages the Registrar's statement, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that he is satisfied with the planned funds, as well as that the plan is to be put into circulation by the end of 2011, the road section of Corridor 10 which represents a significant incentive for investment spending and directly affects the attraction of foreign investment. The estimates say that several tens of thousands of workers will be employed for the construction of Corridor 10, and in this respect part of the funds will be provided from the National Investment Plan, as well as loans from the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank. In short, the government's effort and commitment to make significant savings in the budget proposal in the appraisals where possible can be seen from a comparative review compared to 2008 and 2009 and by the 2009/2008 index. I would only like to mention some items, and some have already been mentioned in previous discussions. For example, rewards, bonuses and other special expenditures where reductions are around 2.7 billion, index 15.8, buildings and construction facilities 6 billion reduction, 56.9 index, machines and equipment about 3 billion and index 77.4. Also, subsidies to public and financial enterprises and organisations, grants to NGOs, travel costs, contract services, current repairs, maintenance of materials, all with an index ranging from 80 to 97. On the other hand, an increase has been planned and funding has been found for certain apropriations such as Social protection compensation from budgets with index 106, i.e. an increase of some 4 billion dinars, and for the purposes of fighting protection, protection of families and children and socially endangered categories of population. Also, for 78 thousand school-based champions in 2009/10, 170 million dinars have been allocated to the Resoring Ministry of Education, which will certainly be a significant help to the family budgets of the students' parents. They were mentioned in previous discussions on damages or damages caused in the midst of natural disasters. It may not be enough, but 300 million dinars have been planned this year, unlike the last one where 20 million dinars were, which is a significant piece of data, and also a significant increase in the work of the Office for Sustainable Development, which certainly contributes to the government's solutions. It is fully aware that the analysis of this draft budget is possible to take a critical look, to analyse from a completely different angle than the angle I had in my brief discussion, yet I believe that this budget proposal is necessary and necessary to adopt. The SPS-JS MPs will support the Government's Budget Proposal, as it can unequivocally conclude that the government has made a maximum effort in the given circumstances to implement savings and rationalisation at all levels and adhesions where possible, to bring good part of high public spending under control, to relive the economy through clear support for large-scale capital projects, and to send a clear message to all that the Republic of Serbia has defined that it becomes a full member of the EU through the support of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU of 1.01. In 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11100	Thank you, Mr. Kasalovich. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic answered, so when this is over, after the break we will continue, because we will not have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11101	Thank you, Madam President. I need one piece of information based on Articles 225 and 226 since we are discussing the draft budget law, which is very important to us to continue the debate. The agreement with the IMF was signed more than a month ago and the preconditions or basic initial assumptions for the implementation of the agreement were that in 2009, we had a GDP growth of 3.5%, inflation to 8%, deficit issues and other macroeconomic stability issues. For very unusual reasons, since the agreement was for the government to deliver the budget to Parliament within a certain period, the government did so with a month-and-a-half delay, but within the framework of the agreement and the date agreed with the IMF, therefore, for very unusual reasons, at the board of directors the arrangement was extended in a month. What must be seen, we have had more arrangements or more of these monitoring arrangements in Serbia for the last seven years, for the first time the IMF had more optimism than the Serbian negotiators had. The IMF has always insisted that certain assumptions be drastically reduced. We thought it would be better, and now it's the first time we've ever been more pessimistic than them. There are indications and certain information, and I need to know if it's true – is it true that the IMF has changed its mind, thinks that with too much optimism it has entered certain assumptions and now think about the corrections of these basic parameters, because then on the basis of these parameters it defines the deficit, certain percentages relative to the gross social product and all other parameters? I stress, for the first time, the IMF has come in with a lot of optimism, and as you have seen in the last month – they have corrected virtually all estimates of both the world economy and the world's largest economies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11102	Thank you. If the Minister wishes, here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11103	Just to remind you that the agreement wasn't signed, it would be signed. It was a deal to sign the agreement, and that's two things. Secondly, it's not true, so the assumptions are agreed, the budget is agreed with them, the deficit is agreed. It was really two technical things, and you're going to check it very easily and very quickly, these are two memos that were supposed to be signed by the government and the NBS. So, the first memorandum is about targeted inflation, where the division of responsibilities between the NBS and the Government – what is, whose responsibility, which they value. There are a large number of different prices in the basket and then we simply negotiated – what the NBS is responsible for and what the state is for. The second agreement was also an agreement between the NBS and the government -- on common measures to preserve financial stability. Those two, so to speak, were not signed on time. We negotiated a little bit more, but then they were signed. So no corrections to macroeconomic assumptions will be made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11104	I thank Mrs. Dragutinovic, the break will be by 3 p.m. and at 3 p.m. we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11105	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon by order of the MPs, according to the application for a word, in a joint principled, or single search, and on the proposals for the law referred to in items 1 to 9 of the agenda. The word has been made by MP Ivan Andric, a follow-up MP, Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11106	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on behalf of the LDP, but more about the political framework that monitors the adoption of this budget, if at all, rather than the content of the budget. The content of the budget will be discussed by my colleagues from the LDP Parliamentary Group. If we look at the opening statement of the prime minister and the finance minister, we will see that one of the basic things or perhaps the basic framework that follows the adoption of this budget is the existence of so-called. global global financial crisis. This fact dictates both the budget content and everything that happens about the budget. I would like to start by remembering, given that this is one key argument seeking support for the budget, how the government has treated the financial crisis in the first place. At the beginning, the first month or two completely ignored the existence of the crisis, it was explained that opposition MPs fear Serbian citizens, even at one point it was said that Serbia would profit from the existence of the crisis, and then the position was suddenly changed. If you remember, during one weekend, or something like that, all the authorities suddenly changed their attitude. At that moment we hoped that they understood the seriousness of the situation, but now it's quite clear that they wanted and realized that this crisis could be used as an excuse for all of their actions and failures in the period ahead. They immediately began in this quasi-responsibility, which they show, to propose measures. On the one hand, these measures were ridiculous, some ministers were saying that they match pots when cooking or that stoves and refrigerators are not being bought, to remind you, and that is quite a shame for the state, given that these people, who said such things, are ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, as ridiculous as these measures are, they show a fundamental misunderstanding of what this crisis is all about. The whole world is trying to stimulate production, consumption, flow of money, and with us, ministers, even when some measures suggest, they show their misunderstanding. On the other hand, we can call, one set of serious measures proposed by Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic or a team headed by him, in which, in fact, he sees all the dangers and what I was talking about at the beginning, therefore, the formation or proposal to form a fund from which, if I am not mistaken, between 40 and 50 billion dinars will be focused on the guarantee of a loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, unless I cheat that it is the full name of that fund, is the classic political abuse of the global financial crisis. Instead of actually taking measures, such as non-payment of the value added tax on supplies, i.e. the sale of payments, or the reduction of employees, in the payment of contributions, the Government takes all things into its own hands, and now some assistant or deputy minister, belonging to a party, will decide to whom and how much credit they will give. The measure was compared here with the measure in which the United States helped its automotive industry. As MPs of the opposition, we warn you, that some of the American automotive industry had to get help from the state, who knows how many times to go to Congress, to explain the smallest point in their request, to explain how that money would be spent, how it would serve and eventually get a third, if I'm not wrong, or a quarter of what they were looking for. Let's see if that's the case here, too! Our guess, according to everything you've done so far, is that some party official will thus favour other members of that party and will be the place where corruption will lie, not economic recovery. We're warning you now. I have to hurry and just say a few more words about the three principles that Prime Minister Cvetkovic spoke of. The first principle is unity, he called it, or unity, which is also a quasicopy of the measures taken by Western countries. A common agreement between the authorities and the opposition, social entities, businesses, trade unions is being put in place under unity there. And then there's a common response. Here, the prime minister explained that it was a joint agreement between the parties within the ruling coalition. When was that different? No matter how hard it was for you to make a deal with each other, that's always the case. The government reconciles certain parties within the coalition, thus proposing a budget. Next, solidarity. It's the most embarrassing measure, that everyone should bear the burden of responsibility, which we can reflect on saving the government. I believe there's this illusion with you that this budget is thrifty, because the budget has been made by making things at peace, and this may be an optimal budget for this government and this kind of behavior of the state, but it's essentially not. There are 27 ministries, thousands of agencies, offices that deal with everything. Our MPs will speak for how many of our responsibilities are intertwined. This isn't a savings budget. This budget is catastrophic! In every item, in every position, in that book you gave us, there's a place where you could save even more. Finally, continuity, which is reportedly to be monitored during the implementation of the budget, will take additional measures. Here, I ask you a political question – what measures have been taken to make that budget even adopted? She's a month late, she's got 530 amendments. They're all against that budget. How can you plan to monitor his realization in two months and not be able to adopt him until Monday at midnight? That principle of continuity was to be proved at that first point. It is – we are able to adopt it. Only then does he become the main tool in the hands of the government. As for the submission of the amendment, we have said several times that we will not tolerate the amendments. It is precisely because of this first principle, the community, that if the prime minister points out this as the first principle, it is a message to all MPs of the opposition – if we have barely put it together, it is impossible to change it by amendments. A lot of things have to change there and say that they could get back together at the ruling coalition. And you've been late for over a month. I think I've said enough reasons to make it clear that LDP will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11107	National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11108	It's the easiest thing to say is that I'm answering for an article. 225 and 226. In the end, I will ask the question, although I do not know, I think the entire Rules of Procedure can be cited, and even Article 104, for the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because I am now asked by representatives of the Independent Union who are outside the Assembly to go out for the Assembly speaker and to say what I have to say. Why dignity? Yesterday, the minister, including the Prime Minister, also seems to me to be Mr Vlahovic speaking on behalf of the ZES Group, all said a pact was made with the unions. I don't know if these poles in front of you mean the pact brought by the workers and if it's agreed a pact with the unions. They say they've been cheated! And we know they've been cheated and we've been saying that ever since this government was formed. The fact of the Collective Treaty was signed, by Minister Ljajic, just before the additional elections we had in those four municipalities and for him very important elections in Prijepolje. But now there's nothing. And in this budget, too, there's nothing of it. There's no regress, no hot meal, nothing! About the 13th and not to talk! The Socially Responsible Government, the government that promised pensioners and workers everything and everything, and in the end nothing turns out. Is that solidarity? They gave me the front now. Vladic's Han municipality, is solidarity the amount of average earnings for October of the month, the economy of 8,000 dinars, the out-of-profit economy of 32,000 dinars? It's solidarity! The outsiders are probably government officials, local self-government officers. It is the solidarity proposed by this government in the draft budget. Will the extended fact of the collective agreement be applied? When? How? Were they cheated or not?- I'm sorry. Ten days sitting in front of the President of the Republic's building, cheating workers, and what's up with that bankruptcy manager, what's he doing to a bankruptcy court and jurisdictional court. Yesterday the woman ended up in the hospital because she was making tea for all those who were there ten days in front and the gas bottle got her face dirty and now she's in the hospital! The other day one of those strikers died! That's what we were talking about here. The President of the Republic has not received them until today! They're looking for a reception with him. This is where they were admitted. None of what they were promised was done. She promised them the president. I understand they were listening to the wrong person. She said now that the opposition was obstructing, and on Saturday you were sick. If you hadn't been sick, we'd probably have a debate yesterday. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm finishing up, although I think these people in front are more important than 30 seconds. It's really this budget is catastrophic. Come on, people, when you make a promise, you do it. Why are the police in front of the National Assembly building again? We don't need to defend the police from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11109	The word is from MP Jovan Nesovic, followed by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11110	The President-in-Office, respected Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 has two strategic objectives. One is maintaining macroeconomic stability and another, the strategic goal is financial stability. In order for these two objectives to be achieved several measures and several areas in which they must operate, they are very important. One measure is to maintain the stability of the dinar course and the other is to have active economic support measures to achieve economic growth that was projected from 3.5% in 2009. As for maintaining the stability of the dinar course, I think it is very important that the projected inflation or planned inflation in 2009 is 8% at the annual level and it seems to me that it is feasible because the projections say that by the end of 2008, and by the end of 2008, inflation in this year will be 8%, so I really hope that next year inflation will be at the inflation level of 2008. The second thing that is important for the stability of the dinars is also the foreign reserves of the Serbian state. They are at this point three and a half times the total cash mass, the dinar mass that is in circulation, and that is important to preserve the stability of the dinars. The third thing, which is also important, is that we have adopted a law on increasing deposit insurance to 50,000 euros, which means that the trust that was, at the beginning of this crisis, will return to the banking system, that people will return deposits to banks, which means more money in banks. Directly, a better banking system, and it seems to me, indirectly, and more stable domestic currency. Therefore, with a number of other measures, I expect that in 2009, the dinar course will be stable. The next thing you know is economic growth. What is foreseen is 3.5% economic growth in 2009. We have to admit that he was smaller than he was in 2007 and 2006; in 2007, it was 7.1%, it was 6.5%. In 2008, about 6%. We have to admit, on the other hand, that at the moment of the great economic crisis, 3.5% is an optimistic thing, if we look at the world's most developed countries, we have a recession at the moment. In the United States, economic growth will be minus 0.7%, the eurozone around minus 0.3%. In some countries they will be above zero. In Japan, it's going to be minus 0.2%. It can then be said that 3.5% of economic growth, if achieved in Serbia, is a major success in 2009. To achieve this economic growth, the state must at this time have a package of support for Serbia's economy and that is defined in certain paragraphs in the 2009 budget. The first item is 50 billion dinars in terms of the state guarantee for favourable dinar loans to businesses. What's important to point out at this point here is that these loans go through business banks in the territory of the Serbian state through the best banks. Banks are the ones who will assess the quality of the requirements submitted and banks are the ones who will decide who gets the loan, not the Government. It is important to point out that the NBS will provide 75%, and 25% will be the funds of business banks. Simply when all of this is collected, around 800m euros will be pumped into the economy. It should also be stressed that it is a dinar loan and is expected that the maximum interest on the annual level in dinars is 12%. Two things are very important: priority will be given to exporting companies, because these companies must in some way be allowed and help to protect the markets where they already exist, and on the other hand, everyone who receives this loan will have to sign a statement in the contract that they will not reduce the number of workers and thus, we are counting the number of employees, even in these companies. What is important is that these loans are for one to two years and that this measure would do well requires a partnership that must exist between the government, the National Bank of Serbia, business banks and businesses. The next measure envisioned in this budget is 20 billion dinars to go to borrow small and medium-sized enterprises through the Development Fund, and 14 billion dinars through the Development Fund will pump into the economy for short- and long-term loans or crafts, from annuities coming back from earlier years, and about 6 billion direct funds that will go from the budget via the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Of those 6 billion, 3.1 billion will go for so-called. start-up loans and this is a measure that has been applied in the state of Serbia for two years. And last year, for these purposes, it was spent from the budget of 2.2 billion and it divided about 2,000 and 300 start-up loans and, according to data, approximately 7,000 jobs. I want to express my satisfaction, from where I come as a national MP, which is the town of Kraljevo, in 2007, only two people received start-up loans, that last year the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development opened the Office in the city of Kraljev and 65 start-ap loans were divided into the city of Kralje. Therefore, if we want to criticise, and someone has criticised that there is no need to open offices for small and medium-sized enterprises, this is a fine example that says that these offices can help people to cope faster, better and make quality applications so that they can compete and get those funds. The second thing is that, too, through the Development Fund, small and medium-sized enterprises are credited in undeveloped areas, which are really underdeveloped municipalities and to which 2.5 billion dinars will be spent. It is important to say that the criteria and decision-making that municipalities will be in the programme are defined by the government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, by no minister, nor by the ministry, but by the government in general. What's important and where it's seen to be kept is lending in the area of catering services, that's the measure that exists for two years, and in this year it's going to be about 320 million dinars. It's important, through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, a contract with the Fiat and the realisation of that contract. We have to do everything possible to restore the automotive industry in Serbia, we have to do everything possible to get Kragujevac's "Fiyat", that is to get a strategic partner, and that's not just Kragujevac's development, that's the development of the entire forest. To be honest, it's a good thing the state is detaching these funds right now and following the contractual dynamics signed with the Fiat. Indeed, I sincerely expect, looking at what is happening in Poland and the attitude of the Polish state and the 'Fiat' towards that state and the companies operating under the 'Fiat' in that country, therefore, I expect this contract to be completed. Finally, the state must do what it has done so far, which is to help local self-governments equip industrial zones, because there is no attracting foreign investment if you can't offer potential investors infrastructure-equipped land in local self-government and through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development for this purpose this year three billion dinars were planned. I expect several municipalities in Serbia will have equipped industrial zones to offer investors, whether domestic, foreign, open their factories and employ people. Finally, what is predicted is 1.7 billion to attract foreign direct investment, a greenfield investment, or a joint investment between the state and investors, because we ultimately have to compete with countries in the environment not to go investors to those countries, but to come to a state of Serbia where they simply open jobs, but when someone comes, there is certainly a market where they will place the product that is produced here in Serbia. What's important to me and what's going to go through the National Employment Service is that three billion dinars are foreseen funds for active employment measures and these active employment measures concern self-employment, severance to work. Also, it will remain this year's Transition Fund, which is for those companies in the restructuring process or those companies whose purchase contract has been terminated, and in order to continue the continuity of production, the state must somehow help them. We have a series of examples in Serbia: "Leteks" from Leskovac, AD "Fontana" from Vranjska Banja, "Magnochrom" from Kralje and some other companies. Looking at all this and the measures of other ministries, I truly sincerely expect that we will achieve economic growth 3.5% next year, that we will also achieve the revenue side of this budget and, frankly, as the G17 Group of MPs plus, we will support this budget in the voting day, and I expect other parliamentary groups to support the 2009 draft budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11111	The word has a folk MP Nenad Popovic, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic. I am informing the Members of Parliament, based on Article 85 of Article 5, that we will be working today even after 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11112	The Honorable Presidency, Mrs Dragutinovic, dear colleagues, the budget is an explicit indicator of the government's economic policy, and therefore we expected this budget with special attention, although we were, I must say, more than tolerance over delays. We expected a budget that is suitable for conditions and for the moment in which it is brought, and less for the coalitions of political parties that are in power. I don't think the government's in any kind of stand-by right now, has brought any concrete program to get out of the financial crisis that's at the door. She has brought in several unrelated measures, of which we have not seen anything yet, but we do not need measures, we need a concrete programme to get out of the crisis, a programme that has a vision, which has projects and which has concrete institutions that can implement these projects. We are faced with the continuity of the rotten compromises in this budget and this speaks of the relationship of power in the current government. If we say that some budgets are developmental, some social, some crisis, Mr. Prime Minister said this one is restrictive. But this budget is neither developmental nor restrictive, nor social. Why? The budget is not developmental because it plans to reduce the subsidy to businesses, the economy by 15% of the total, in particular, farming 27%. Why isn't it a crisis? Because in a crisis, no one gives up any revenue, and we give up income under a unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. This brilliant idea of unilateral application will cost us about 300m euros directly and indirectly much more, because our businesses will face directly the competition of EU companies, whose governments are helping them greatly at this time, on any basis, to keep their jobs in their countries. Also, the budget didn't, although it looked like the most social, but it's not social, because this way we're going to have a lot of social cases that we're going to make of employees in domestic businesses. In the end, I have to say, the budget isn't even restrictive, because it predicts an increase in expenditure from 695 to 748 billion dinars. It would be restrictive, too, if there were no deficits. In this case, budget users could not receive funds at the level of last year and would be deficited if they predicted a reduction in public sector wages or the number of employees. I don't want to make mistakes, I want something to compliment in this budget. On the technical side, I have to say, the draft budget was done extremely well. For the first time, we have a discrepancy in inaccuracy, a technical malfunction of the legal text, very clearly all of the basic debts of the state by credit, are given a parallel picture of the receipt and expenditure of the budget for this year and the following year. It is necessary to be very honest and to say that this budget is nevertheless the result of a compromise of parties in the ruling coalition, a compromise that we have called "the marriage of interest". It is clear to all of us that Mrs Dragutinovic, the finance minister, could not affect these political agreements, Madam Minister, I respect you for pulling the maximum of what was in the talks with representatives of political parties in power. We all know, we've heard how much pressure you've had from ministers and vice presidents to fulfill the unreasonable wishes of the government parties, so I'd like to thank you, however, for probably getting as much of what you could from here. I want to go concretely, here we have one problem that we have allowed to spend on social transfers of 233 billion dinars and salaries in public administration of 188 billion dinars practically exceed two-thirds of budget expenditures. We knew that a long time ago, they were starting talks with the IMF. Now we're told there's no deviation from that. Of course not, because here that factor would be more crucial. We now have one situation where I question the income honor of the budget, as far as VAT is concerned. The biggest revenue in the budget is based on VAT revenue of 338 billion dinars. This represents a 10% growth compared to the previous year. Today I read in the new that Governor Jelasic spoke yesterday, and I think we're going to have to rebalance this budget very quickly, because it's unrealistic that VAT revenues are going to grow. In my opinion, they're going to shrink. I'm just taking an example of U.S. Steel's which closed two of the three furnaces and thus reduced exports, and U.S. Steel is our biggest exporter, but it's also the biggest gross importer. I apologize, Madam Minister, he's the biggest gross importer. We have a problem, so, with the U.S. Steel's are bound to dozens and dozens of performers, companies interested in supply, supply, transport, etc. I'm sure your income will be much smaller. We don't know what's going to happen to the cold and warm rolling stock, the Lims factory in Capco, let's hope it does the right thing. It should be considered, for example, "Tiger" which has been increasing production and exports over 25m euros for years, he sent workers on vacation two weeks ago, because it is logical to drop and produce tyres, as all production in the automotive industry falls. He's been in an even worse situation, and more than a thousand employees are on emergency leave. We also have "Azotara" Panchevo, she's in an extremely difficult situation, and I really think this VAT revenue will certainly be lower. We will face him, and I want to repeat, and Governor Jelasic said that, so you in the government should clarify that. Furthermore, we have an increase in the receipt of the excise budget. The government has decided to increase revenues by 14 billion dinars, i.e. 15% compared to 2008. Generally, excises are the easiest way to increase. Look, there's one big problem. We've increased excise duties on coffee and beer. Why do coffee and beer, when they are truly rare pleasures that the poorest citizens can afford? We didn't increase the excise on whiskey, on cognac, on some other luxury drinks, but on the ones most often used by the poorest citizens! I think it would be much more logical if someone else had grown. And by the excise duties on oil derivatives, indeed, that's where we became European leader and that's where we're closest to Europe. We will have the highest share of excise duties in the price of oil derivatives in Europe. I don't have much time, I'll just mention it briefly, and I said about the SAA, the budget deficit, the reduction of subsidies for agriculture. I think that's one big problem. For example, environmental subsidies are three times higher, in Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, than in our country. Agriculture is our best export product, most in the future we can expect from some export products from agriculture, and we are reducing its subsidies. On the other hand, I find it unnecessary to leave subsidies at the same level as last year, but it is necessary to find every possible way to increase agriculture and subsidies at least twice. In this way, through unilateral application, I just have to say, as other speakers have said, that we will have reduced import protection by about 40% of agricultural products, which will be exposed to the most severe competition from EU countries. These are, first of all, seed wheat, sugar tails, all live animals, strawberries and the like. I would only add that the Fijat contract, which we all praise, and we have no objection, is always welcome in Serbia, the subsidies given to Fijat, is 105,000 euros for one employee. If we multiply all subsidies together, we get 2,433 employees, who will be employed by 2012 105 000 euros per employee. This is three times more than practically the largest single-out in the EU. We don't mind, let's give 105,000 euros, but we have to give all other potential investors who come to Serbia 105,000 euros. When someone opens a bakery and employs four workers, he would also have to get four times 105,000 euros. If someone else comes in six months and wants to open a factory in Vojvodina, southern Serbia, we have to give him 105,000 euros per employee. The state must have a principle. It can't have one principle for a company or for those companies that are part of the pre-election promises. I want to say once again that from a professional point of view, the budget has been done very professionally, and that from a fundamental point of view this budget is only the result of this coalition that is unnatural, in which there are parties both left and right, and on the left and right, with a completely different programme and ideas and the only syntagm of survival in power. That's why the DSS won't vote for this budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11113	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, followed by MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11114	The Honorable Presidency, a respected minister, respected colleagues, will speak in four segments. First, the budget comment, secondly, macroeconomic data compared to the reference environment, thirdly, proposals and fourthly, a brief summary. Of course, as always, I will not be on the left or on the right, but in the middle and I will use my figure method in front of the policy – CIP, it is a shortened CIP. As far as budget comments are concerned, we have budget revenues and expenditures increased by about 50 billion. In the structure of budget revenues, tax revenues account for 640 billion or 92 per cent. This shows that non-tax revenues are still in the embryonic phase. Non-tax revenues are 8%. We immediately see some possibility for the next period, which is to increase revenues from dividends from public enterprises while they are state-owned, but it is not a favourable time, in 2009, practically, we have a reserve on the left-hand side of we have an increase in the dividends of public enterprises. Let me remind again, and I have already reminded myself, the Czech Czech (CAZ) budgets a billion euros annually, at an annual level. If we had 1% of GDP bigger dividends, that's 30 billion. I think it can, given the monopoly position of public enterprises. In the structure of tax revenues, which account for 92%, is normally dominated by VAT, excise duties that are increased both in the structure and in the nominal amount. Practically, excise duties are a substitution, the increase in excise duties is largely substituting a reduction in customs from 70 to 50 billion due to the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement. On the right side, on the side of the expenditure, it dominates, and I would stay there, but it's already about the structure of expenditure, the transfer to social security organisations. This has increased from 178 to 233 billion, or 53 billion. Even the increase in budget expenditure practically goes to the position – the transfer to social funds. It should be said that in the PIO Fund, the 2008 budget rebalance, this year, the transfer to the PIO Fund was 138 billion. Now the transfer to the PIO Fund is 189 billion; in relative numbers, with 34.4 transfers from the budget to the PIO was increased to 41.1%. That's very alarming. So 41.1% of the total income of PIO or 189 billion comes from the state budget. In this regard, one of the proposals that I will make tax and short is one attempt, which is a quick attempt to capitalise on the PIO Fund, because we will practically never have enough development component if the transfer to the PIO Fund, or the co-financing of the PIO Fund, exceeds 30%. Now, I repeat, it's at 41% level. Regarding the first point, the budget comment, our total deficit is 50 billion. When that deficit is added to a 42.76 billion debt payment, we have a total deficit of 92.76 billion, that gross deficit, it was at the level of the 2008 rebalance, which was 92.12 billion dinars, which means that something above billions of euros, in total, is missing between budget revenues and budget expenditures. This is where the closure of that position, the privatisation income and the additional borrowing are taken into account. Why not? Coliar Vlahovic spoke, and others spoke, and we will see that when we compare the data, that we have the most space here and we must not fear any additional borrowing, provided that these additional loans go into infrastructure, i.e. in real lending to the real sector. Second point – comparison of our macro data with the reference environment. First, the GDP growth rate, in the last two years we had 7.1% - 6%, is planned for 3.5% in 2010 - 4.5%, it is at the level of Bulgaria and Romania, and above Croatia, Macedonia, BiH, and especially above Hungary, which has a rate of about 1%, in the coming years when it comes to the main economic parameters of the GDP growth rate. As far as inflation is concerned, our rate of about 10% for this year, about 8% for next year, 2010 is planned 6.2%. It's on the level of Bulgaria. It is slightly larger than Hungary and Romania, with a significantly higher inflation rate than Croatia. When it comes to public debt compared to GDP, I repeat, it has already been said several times, the public debt is now 8.93 billion, what the state owes. Under this criterion, we are the first in the environment, i.e. a better position are in Bulgaria and Romania, and as far as other countries are concerned, especially Hungary, where 60%, Croatia, is 37%, we are in a much better position in this public debt indicator of the state compared to GDP. As for wages and pensions, our average current salaries and pensions are 400 euros, the dinar equivalent of 400 euros net earnings, or 230 – 240 pensions. We are the first in this reference environment, of course, except Hungary and Croatia, far above the others by 20-30%. This is where our budget problems are hiding, especially since in 2006, salaries and pensions went beyond the potential growth of GDP. Unemployment, it stands at 18-20%. As for comparisons, unemployment is much higher than Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and Hungary, and is lower than Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Finally, what Serbia is, at this point, in the worst position, is, for example. export per capita. Our exports per capita are 900 euros, "per cap." That I don't take Slovenia, it's almost 10,000, but it's not our reference environment. But that's why Croatia has 2,000 euros per capita. Bulgaria has 1 thousand and 7 hundred euros per capita, Romania 1 thousand and 4 hundred euros per capita. This is much more than Serbia and this shows our structural discrepancies and problems in the transition of the real sector. And this is causing finally two of our weakest points: an external trade deficit that this year will be about 8 billion euros and a current payment deficit of about 6 billion euros, which are 5 billion euros, which are, as far as we're concerned, the most dangerous racio numbers, those relative numbers that show the economic situation, the state of the economy, the state of the country. So, in conclusion, we are somewhere at the top in terms of macroeconomic indicators, when a resultant, a relevant environment involving the two EU countries: Bulgaria, Romania, then Croatia, Macedonia, BiH and Montenegro. In that sense, we should appreciate whether we are on the left or right, the success of our economic policy. The third chapter is suggestions. First and foremost, the general remont, indeed, is necessary to start a general remonting of public enterprises and state administrations by a simple system, which the economy has long applied. The system is called budgeting. Mr. Milan Markovic has already spoken, the budget for a public enterprise is determined, by an internal auditor by the government who monitors the work of directors and board of directors. Practically, the state, as the boss, must control and act preventively in its public enterprises. It is a segment where dividends can be expected to increase, i.e. budget revenues. Second, I already said, the cure of the PIO Fund. Here, I have already proposed on the finance and privatisation committees, if the PIO Fund is financed by the state with 41%, that the state has the right to find a formula, a legal model, that in this year, already in 2009, there is a nominal reduction in pensions that are above the average salary in Serbia, and that there is an increase in the lowest pensions, thereby correcting the error when pensions are linearly increased, when they increase in October, of 10%. I think it should be done this year, to raise pensions at least for price increases to a little lower pension of up to 20,000, for example, and to reduce those larger pensions and make a numerical balance. It is already mentioned, I am joining the request, asking for the relaxation of the NBS credit-monetary policy to be implemented immediately, in that sense that the reference interest rate is reduced as much as possible and that the remaining conditions and, in particular, in agreement with the commercial banks are relaxed for the real sector. Fourthly, I don't think it can wait for the end of January, not even the end of January for the activation of preferential credit lines, whether it's the credit lines of the European Investment Bank, whether it's the EBRD, whether it's credit lines where the state provides NBS guarantees, these credit lines must be activated as soon as possible because the real sector is already mentioned "Sartid", in this particular time, in December, in January and February, and otherwise, because of holidays, collective holidays, etc., in Western Europe, there is less demand in the world. It is now very multiplicative and in this sense credit support should be pumply provided and released to the real sector with a package of credit lines that could be used already in January. Otherwise, indeed, problems that are already objective will become even greater. There is concern that the macroeconomic situation will take place in 2009. That is why it is necessary and I appeal that the Government has as close contact with the real sector as possible. The daily contact that certain representatives of the government have with the real sector, because if the left side is not filled, the revenue side of the budget, all our wishes, all the measures of economic policy will fall into the water. For this reason, I think that it is high time that our government's damaximum attention and macroeconomic policy be devoted to the real sector, especially exporters, especially large net exporters and other large systems, normally, and small and medium-sized enterprises that will create this projected growth of 3.5% of gross domestic product. Without that growth, our budget goes down like a map tower. And finally a resume. Our macroeconomic policy is indeed run between what is said in Greek mythology, Scylla and Haribde. We all did. I'd really like to be heard by fellow MPs, we're all Scylla, we're acting on principle -- we're all for change, just so you don't change us. We see it in everyday action. When it comes to budget restrictions, about reducing the number of courts, about reducing the courts, we are against it when it comes to our environment, but that's why Mr Jojic says: we have 2 and a half thousand judges and 5 hundred in Britain. We're all pimps for change, but we can't change ourselves and our closest environment. It's Scylla. Haribda is a major global economic crisis that threatens, and I think our economic ship, that's where I draw, water, I've already said it once, three captains of the Doctor of Economics and two masters of the economy. If we once had economic knowledge in the government to run that economic ship, we have it now. I repeat, once I said, given all these facts, you need to be abstentioned and moderately optimistic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11115	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11116	Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the global economic crisis as an expression of the weakness of the economic concept that favors excessive consumption, and which has no real coverage in the economy sector, has attached our country as well. The globalisation process erases such unadjusted economies, which therefore pay the fraud prices of stock exchanges, the pre-named real estate market, the insurance companies' funds, and some also pay to their non-supported currencies. So it's clear that we're thinking first of all about the American currency. And we got hit by an inflation. It may have been 10-15% or 20 in certain weeks last month, and the intervention measures taken by the governor cost 600-700m euros and succeeded, even for psychological reasons to temporarily calm inflation, but it is not known how long and how successful. There's got to be something else that wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been an enormous amount of money in circulation on the market. The recession is accompanied by these disorders, these are joint phenomena, and it is only natural that when the government starts with a budget, a top financial law that interferes with its intentions to lead and organise the state, how to realise spending, how to make revenues. And the basic principle that budget applicants want to show us in their opening work is that they will have fixed and strong monetary and fiscal support, that they will actually maintain macroeconomic stability. The measures proposed in the budget began to apply perhaps 15-20 days earlier, even though they were manifestly hinted and implies those measures that we would like to get rid of as soon as possible. So, really high reference interest, the promotion of the value charter market, but also the accelerated privatisation of banks and insurance companies – this should be something that should stabilise inflation at the intended level, and on the other hand, in monetary policy and fiscal combined, something should be done to ensure that the sustainable development of GDP of products programmed to 3.3.5% is preserved as programmed, to do something and not know how to increase employment, and it is expected to be minus 0.5 of what would be a natural employment rate, so we will see how much prices will remain at the projected level of 8% of the average, how stable they will remain with this programmed budget. They are already in effect and measures that should prevent the withdrawal of foreign currency from banks, primarily the elimination of interest, raising levels, as senses of security, foreign reserves, but of course we are aware ourselves, the minister said there was a major withdrawal of foreign exchanges from banks. When looking at the budget, as economists say, both left and right, it is not balanced and there is a deficit of around 50 billion, and that the main mechanism for which the budget can be realistic, balanced is that income and expenditure is balanced. They are not and the question is whether or not they will be, as the revenue side is fundamentally programmed to increase VAT on imported goods. If imported goods are programmed, at least at current prices, for imports to be lower by 4.5%, the question arises that the amount of money that will thus be collected will be about 6% higher and will amount to around 236 billion if indeed less imports and retain the same VAT. There have been indications, in an explanation, that the VAT may and may change, that at least in neighbouring countries it is at a higher level and that it is a higher percentage than we have, then it is possible to expect if it grows, with the condition of reduced imports. Current expenditures have increased, therefore, not the restrictive budget, about 687 billion or 11% more than it was in the previous budget period. What can that mean in terms of extremely expensive loans, lack of craftsmanship, chronic non-chargeability with monopoly instead of competition, it is quite clear that it means recession. If we just looked at what was set aside for agriculture, we would see for a third less money, suffocating one real sector, and making it impossible for the real sense of profitability of this important sector. It may bring imported goods to us, which will mean some price rest and stability of internal prices to the domestic market, but will certainly shut down production even in small or medium-sized agricultural holdings. When we look at more detailed budget allocations, only by sectors can we see how many coalition partners have managed to settle by bringing the budget. We see that the cabinet of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the General Secretariat received nothing more, approximately, than what they had in the previous period, but that's why the first vice-president of the government is a huge reward. Total expenditure on Dacic's cabinet is four times higher. Four times the cost of service per contract, and nearly four and a half times travel costs. So someone rewards the first Deputy Prime Minister zealously for what he showed several months later, and we haven't heard who killed Ranko Panic, or what happened to the people who sought some of their rights about wartime people, wartime participants, who wanted to get some compensation, whether it's right or not, brutal police reckoning, and the police themselves didn't get more than 2% of the total funding. So, the first Deputy Prime Minister, a man in dual office, managed to make a big election for his cabinet. The government's air force will use 75% more funds than previously anticipated. Furthermore, in the programming part of the budget that has been made so transparently, I guess it would be good to control what is being spent, in the health sector, in the segment that is talking about improving the health system, the system that exists, where there are around 115 new employees, should divide 118 million salaries and do a job that is competent and regulated by law, rules and other sublaws. So, just to monitor the state of the health system, its regulation, control of the implementation of health policy – it does 115 people and spend 120 million dinars on it. And the mass of other items that we will talk about when we speak in principle of how even in the health prevention sector, money does not have to be spent as planned. Obviously, the savings were not applied in the adoption of this budget, although generally taken, only the health care kept about the same amount of financial resources. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11117	Thank you. The word is from MP Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the government, on behalf of the Bosniak List for the European Sandzak, I can say that the Bosniak List will support the adoption of the budget. We believe that the worst option is that citizens in 2009 do not have a budget, given that citizens these days are overwhelmed by information about the global crisis, about the European crisis, about the recession, about the difficult one in 2009, and that from this assembly we tell them that next year all budgetary users and citizens will not have a budget, I don't think the citizens of Serbia deserve it. I think we should pass this budget within the legal deadline, because any other variant would be fatal to the citizens of Serbia. Is this budget perfect? He's not perfect, like he's never been perfect before. He has, if we look at from different aspects, as Minister Cvetkovic said here, some principles of continuity, solidarity, restrictiveness. Given that we have, somewhere, only two and a half minutes, I won't talk much about this budget, I just want to point out one thing that an institution is formed in this government meeting – the Office for the Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. It's a new institution. I believe, precisely because of the principle of continuity, that this office cannot be applied because there is no continuity with something that did not exist. It's something new for underdeveloped areas. It belongs, according to different categorizations, to this group of municipalities and cities somewhere, approximately, in one category 29, in another 30 and something, but essentially for this office 140 million dinars are foreseen. I am pleased today with the information that tomorrow we will have a meeting with the heads of parliament groups, together with Minister Cvetkovic and Minister, and that at that meeting we will agree and reach a consensus on everything that can be fixed, everything that can be done for all MPs to stand behind this budget in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and on behalf of the Bosniak List, I can say that we will be constructive. We will point to these gaps that have been made because this particular office has only existed since this year, and an institution that has specifically dealt with underdeveloped areas has not existed so far. We will find a compromise and that citizens will get one security, to tell them from here that it will be difficult in 2009, but that this European government will do everything possible to get the citizens through 2009 in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11119	Thank you. The word is Miss Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11120	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, representatives of the ministry, although Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, in his shrub, a short-term, yesterday's budget explanation, said that the budget by definition is the most important economic document, we must realise that the draft budget we are discussing today is primarily a political document of the ruling coalition. The draft budget for next year does not respect real economic flows. If the prime minister claims that the budget is the first measure of the government to deal with the effects of the economic crisis, then what is the one-sided application of the Transition Trade Agreement? Customs revenues will therefore be lower by around 20 billion dinars than in the last year. After all, Mrs Dragutinović, did you not suggest moving the application of the unilateral Trade Agreement? The losses from the use of the SAA will be covered by the increase in excise duty on oil derivatives, cigarettes, beer, coffee, the payment of dividends from public enterprises. Governor Jelasic announces a VAT increase. I'm asking you, is this announcement of a VAT increase also supposed to cover the loss? The budget envisions a deficit of 49.6 billion dinars, or around 600m euros. That is, according to the government's representatives, according to the IMF's agreement, which amounts to around 1.5% of GDP. However, we must take this information with the reserve. Prof. The Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Miodrag Arsic, made one daily statement: "According to the 2009 budget projection, a deficit of about 600m euros is expected, forgetting the repayment of Serbia's debt for which so much money is to be provided. For this reason, the question arises as to where the state will obtain these funds, since large privatisation revenues cannot be accounted for, and the situation for issuing the State's debt charters is not favourable. "It is difficult to determine how much GDP will be in next year. We can only talk about the assumption that its growth will be 3.5%. The deviations will be certain. At economic consultation, organised by the scientific Association of Economists and the Belgrade Faculty of Economics, claims have been made that GDP growth could be 2%, as well as inflation will at best be 10%. Citizens need to know that the budget has been created as a compromise solution between coalition partners who are undermining the differentafinities of individual ministers. The prime minister argues that the budget is restrictively stimulating - restrictive towards the state and driven towards the economy. That sounds really nice, but there's still a little honesty missing. We still live in a world of reality, not in a world of demagogy and skillful economic phrases. Indeed, when an analysis of the budget opens up many issues and many dilemmas and imposes numerous criticisms, but there is little time. The government has decided to save, but not when it comes to the cabinets of vice-presidents and ministers, but when it comes to Serbian citizens. I'll give you one example. The poor redistribution of 2009 budgets does not provide enough money for maternity and parental compensation, as well as child benefits for the whole year. Last year, a bile debate was held in this parliament over the introduction of VAT on baby equipment. The government, however, has not learned any lessons -- it has not listened to Serbian citizens. It is about a socially irresponsible government, whose actions will have far-reaching consequences for Serbia's decline anyway. A more rational distribution of budgets, a reduction in contract and specialised services costs, the Serbian government, if it wants, can compensate for a part of the funds missing for paying these fees – rather than waiting for budget rebalancing. On the one hand, the government in the 2009 Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy announces that reforms of the social protection system will provide better guidance for social transfers, indicating that special attention will be paid to children. On the other hand, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will not have enough resources to cover these expenditures. Otherwise, I have to admit that the data is shockingly working – the average amount of child's supplement is thousands and 7 hundred dinars. Yes, that thousand and seven hundred dinars is our cruel reality. Despite these facts, the Government continues to deceive and, as one of its activities, announces the adoption of a comprehensive document on population policy, even though it does not implement an existing Strategy for Inciting Birth. Did the government, meanwhile, give up on her? Did the Memorandum mention pure pro form working? The government definitely resorted to the old monetaryist rule when budgeting -- the deficit is trying to reduce spending on health, education, science, culture, putting them in a difficult position. When it comes to the incentive part of the budget, and the prime minister claims it is, I will ask only one question – what about agriculture? Finally, we are in a dreary economic situation. The state could improve things with its positive or negative actions, or unpopular measures, but in this situation, it would be a vain and hopeless attempt, because it is mainly done by people who are led primarily by personal interests. In the end, I'm interested, or I'd like to ask you a question. You're talking about the golden budget rule, that the state can be in charge of investing, not financing current expenditure. I'm interested -- what else is going to be funded from the loan besides Corridor 10?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11121	There's a word from MP Djordje Milicevic of the SPS-JS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11122	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, Mrs Dragutinovic, Mr Dulic, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been the main issue in Serbia for the past few months, and how to survive the global crisis. The heated debate was about budget rebalances for the current year, and over the past month there have been major disagreements over spending money from the state register. A lot of dust, a lot of dissatisfaction, and maybe it's a confirmation of budget restrictiveness, household spending and rational behavior. We can't allow burdens and cars to break just on budget users. The control of public enterprises and their operations must be under the influence of the State and the Republic of Parliament. The strict control of expenditure and personal income will surely provide a greater profit, which also contributes to higher budget revenues, but it seems to me that the biggest price will be paid – drivers, tobacco, beer, which has been a regular practice so far. Right at the beginning to point out a global but essential remark. There is no way that the Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Financial Policy, with projections for the next two years, becomes a real basis for macroeconomic settings and the framework for budgetary spending. The macro-economic frameworks are revised in front of each budget rebalance or new budget, which raises doubts about the planned rates, i.e. they are adjusted according to budgetary needs and do not maintain real image and real values. The global economic crisis is moving very quickly to the general economic crisis, which is passed on to our country's economy and finances. The initial blow was resolved by government foreign exchange reserves and the liquidity of the National Bank and commercial banks, but that doesn't mean that the crisis has passed us by. The global global crisis will reflect slower economic growth in Serbia through – reducing domestic demand caused by a reduction in public and private spending, namely, slower growth in earnings and pensions, as well as a more rigorous credit policy measure, i.e. a lack of credit; then, a reduction in exports to the traditional EU market due to a reduction in demand caused by the financial crisis; further, a reduction in the inflow of foreign direct investment, donations and favourable international credits and a slowdown of growth in certain sectors of services, the financial sector due to the deterioration of liquidity and expensive loans to trade and tourism. I would say that domestic demand was not followed by a domestic supply of goods, or production, which led to a high deficit of current external trade transactions and high dependence on the world market. It's a very important channel that can lead to the direct impact of the global crisis on our country. This may have led to the adoption of rigorous IMF conditions when making arrangements, which should ensure stability and reduce financial risk. A closely established 2009 budget for the Republic should contribute to macroeconomic stability through belt tightening and expenditure reduction. On the other hand, encouraging economic activity is a necessary measure in the conditions of depriving foreign direct investment funds and investors. The right measure on this plan represents, among other things, the promotion of business activity and the investment of budget resources through the intensification of capital investments, particularly in infrastructure and the strengthening of capacity of domestic production. Somehow, I would say, in the weather, the implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU begins, i.e. the elimination of customs duties and VAT on imports of goods and goods from the EU market, which will create, I would say, a hole in the budget of 23 billion dinars, which someone must cover. The planned 2009 budget total budget revenues and revenues are up 10% compared to 2008, with 91.6% of the total tax. The introduction of VAT has significantly contributed to stabilising budget revenues, which now account for about half of budget revenues, but what to say about the strength of our economy when 70% of value added tax is achieved on the basis of goods and services from imports. The import lobby, therefore, continues to have a strong impact on the domestic market and on the economic environment in Serbia. The expenditure side of the budget is always more interesting and discussionable, but when we look at the indexes of expenditure per user and that they are mostly less than 100% and that expenditure is nominally lower than the previous year – apparently the burden covered everything, from children in kindergartens to pensioners. For the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, the issue of social justice and equal opportunities is particularly important for all, i.e. the social component of the expenditure side of the budget. In the structure of the proposed budget, the highest participation is about 30% of the total expenditures that are grants to social insurance organisations, and it seems to me to be 233.7 billion dinars. The largest part of these donations are – expenditure from the Republic Fund of PIO for pension payments of 312.2 million dinars, transfer funds to this fund for the payment of old, family and disability pensions of 189.3 billion dinars and account for 41.1% of the total expenditure of this fund. This suggests that they must invest in economic activity, in order to increase the amount of revenue based on the contribution. I think we have realised a very important issue relating to pension increases, which involves additional funds for the whole of 2009, which is a major success at the moment, given the tight budgetary frameworks, the burden of the international economic crisis and the financial crisis, as well as the IMF's demands. As an MP from the Kolubar district, especially as a local patriot, I am interested in the amount of funds to remove the effects of earthquakes in this area. I will remind you that in 1999 and 2000 some 1550 residential buildings were built and renovated in this area and that in 2000 the funds transferred amounted to about 1.2 billion dinars. The now planned 280 million dinars for 2009 will allow for construction of about hundreds of buildings. With this relationship to remove the consequences of this natural disaster and the constant reduction of funds year after year, most owners will not experience doing to them what nature has taken from them. If it continues with a similar policy, the consequences will not be removed in the next 20 years, and I remind you that the earthquake took place ten years ago. Is it normal for someone to wait 30 years to exercise their rights and where and in what conditions will they wait for them to do so?- I'm sorry. I propose that in this budget, or at least in the 2009 budget rebalance, the amount to be at least in 2008 or in 2009 410 million dinars, be equal to the amount it was in 2008. Finally, the 2009 budget is a product of one reality. On the one hand, special attention is paid to economic policy in 2009, and on the other hand, attention is paid to the general situation of the coming crisis. This budget is restrictive, when it comes to reducing public spending, but it also has one development component, about 18.7 billion dinars are defined for the development of the economy and about 40.1 billion dinars for capital projects. For one of the most important infrastructure projects, Corridor 10, around five billion dinars were planned from the budget. And, at the very end, it seems to me that this government of the Republic of Serbia is aware that only economic development provides social security. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11123	Thank you. Mr. Omeragic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11124	I'm sorry, but I only have one denial to give. Today's press, the press "Blic", "Pres", "Alo", since I talked to them to deny something, they won't. I've never made statements about the lottery, gambling, and I owe it to the citizens, because today someone's tendingly published it in all the newspapers, so I've never said anything like that, and I have to deny it in this way, because it's not going to publish otherwise. Thank you, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11125	Mrs. Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Honored Ministers, the budget was already mentioned yesterday as a kind of coalition agreement and we understand what kind of concessions had to be made there and we do not dispute it. It is, in the end, the right of the ruling majority to treat the budget in such a way as to pass some other laws on behalf of the largest law of this house. What I was talking about yesterday, when I came forward as someone who singled out his opinion on the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, I think today just to expand with a story that's very important and I expect the minister to understand and support it, not just because she's a minister, but because she's a woman (we're also a newspaper) because it concerns the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education is one of the ministries that is extremely important, and if we know that there are three pillars of society, health care, judiciary and education, and only a society and a state that has a healthy three pillars can hope for the future, then you will understand why it is important for the Ministry of Education to have additional funds in these amendments separated by just one item that no one has mentioned so far, which is very important. I'll explain why it's important. They're student contests. It's an acute wound in education. For years, the item is being saved, and the competitions of elementary school students, and in high school, first of all, are being selected, delegated, recommending the best children to build our future. It's a way for us to recognize, stimulate and create a safe and good future. We have successful and unsuccessful children. As a society, we've been dealing with the consequences for a long time. The consequences are unsuccessful, and police and social institutions, various ministries, various institutions and spending huge money are involved. Only their parents and families are successful, and they should carry this company. We should invest in them, because they are invested far less. Even when we invest as much as we can in them, they'll be far cheaper, and they'll be a much greater wealth of this society and they'll bring much more to this society. We also talked about the social benefits we mentioned yesterday, which we mentioned today. There's one defeated data from the budget, it's that social giving to parents for children uses 6 thousand parents a month, that's 72 grand a year. It's a defeating number, as much as it's used. We're not talking about money numbers, we're going as far as we've got. I was talking about the fact that we, both yesterday and today, don't take care of demographics as a society. It's a commitment to every budget. It is the obligation of every government to bring a national strategy to its future and to see what are the ways to protect that future. Believe me, the best and most significant investments should be in our most successful children. This is what will come back to us and will increase some of our future budgets that the majority will not discuss, but will discuss others and will then certainly be better and happier Serbia. Since we have submitted the amendment to this part of the law, please consider it carefully, because 20 million and 21 million in primary and secondary education, of which only 10% of the travel costs, will not be able to meet these needs. Most of all, we save on the best, on the most valuable, on those who keep quiet and responsibly carry out their obligation. As someone who comes from education, I was once in a situation where three exceptional children from a rural school who were placed in a republican competition and in that republican competition won a high second place, firstly, could not go to that competition at all because parents had no means, schools had no resources, we eventually brought everyone down to personal familiarity with the director of the transport company, it can be solved so once, but society must have a strategy, because these are the ones that need to bring about the progress of this society. Don't just deal with the consequences, just fighting drug abuse, just similar problems we'll still have. If we invest in these, you'll see, we'll have fewer scandalous headlines in the paper and fewer black chronicles that, unfortunately, sell newspapers, but we need to be seriously concerned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11127	Thank you. The NS parliamentary group has spent time scheduled for this debate. The word is Nebojsa Zdravkovic. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11128	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected ministers, today is an extremely important document on the agenda concerning the budget's plans and revenues for 2009. What is important is that the 2009 restrictive of the Serbian budget conditioned by the global economic crisis will not endanger Serbia's development and stop the implementation of major projects, because all countries, including Serbia, are tightening the belt because of the global economic crisis, but no one is disowning its development. Under the conditions of the global economic crisis, the Serbian government has two clear goals. The first is to keep existing jobs, and the second is to create even more jobs, and in this context I will look back at two ministries that have the most expressed development component, the National Investment Plan Ministry and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The projected budget for the National Investment Plan of 20 billion and 500 million dinars have not been at the level since 2008, but will be able to provide for a continuation of overall economic development. Citizens and municipalities have shown exceptional interest in the current financing and management of projects as it was in the previous period. In 2009, the priority for funding from the National Investment Plan will primarily be projects that ensure an increase in the standard of living of citizens and those related to economic development, such as equipment of industrial zones, construction of Corridor 10, which practically enable the employment and arrival of foreign investors. What I want to point out on this occasion is that one of the priorities of the Ministry of National Investment Plan and the construction of infrastructure is necessary for the operation of the Kragujeva factory "Fiat Cars of Serbia", in which more than two billion dinars will be invested during 2009. These funds will continue to work on the highway Kragujevac-Batočina and connect Kragujevac with "Koridor 10", which was the wish of many previous and republican and local authorities in the town of Kragujevac. Then, the construction of a northern and southern bypass that will be continued until the entrance to the flag and the northern bypass, which will move all transit over it, which will not only be made for the needs of the "Fijata" but also for the citizens of Kragujevac. These are some capital infrastructure projects that could not be realised without the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, by the end of January, conditions will be known for the approval of favourable loans to the economy, totaling 800m euros. The loans were provided by the government of Serbia, the NBS and the business banks, primarily by small and medium-sized enterprises, exporters, to maintain employment and increase production. Credits will be in dinars with the government's guarantee of 75% of the loans provided by the NBS. What I want to point out on this occasion is that for these guarantees in the budget for next year, 50 billion dinars are foreseen and practically loan users will be obliged not to fire workers while using these loans, which is the highest priority in the following year and what is planned for this budget. Also, the Serbian government has prepared measures with the draft budget to maintain the stability of course and price. The National Bank of Serbia has foreign exchanges to knock down a single day's euro rate to 70 dinars, but this is not the Central Bank's goal, but to prevent excessive rate oscillations and maintain price stability. The planned austerity measures include reducing public spending in 2009, from 44% to 40% of gross social product, limiting salary growth to 8%, reducing all material costs in the public sector by 10% and subsidies by 27%. What the G17 Parliamentary Group is extremely pleased with is the development component of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, as 11 billion dinars are foreseen for active employment measures, covering programmes implemented through the National Employment and Programmes and Retraint Service, retraining, job finding. Then, three and a half billion dinars are designed to equip industrial zones. One of these industrial zones will be the free zone of the "Kormansko Polje" in Kragujevac, where the "Fiats" co-operatives will be located and where it is planned that Iveko will accommodate its bus factory and its co-operatives. For a joint investment with the "Fiyat" in the division of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, 14 billion dinars are foreseen. It is an extremely large item and these funds will be used for all infrastructure works within the factory and for everything foreseen by the realisation of the Fiat Treaty, and I would like to remind you that by the end of 2011, 300,000 cars are produced annually in Kragujevac and that total exports amount to only the companies "Fiat Cars Serbia's billion euros, and now total exports of the entire Serbian state are 6.5 billion euros and that is one of the biggest problems currently, a major external trade deficit. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has allocated 20 billion more dinars to the Small and Medium Business Loans Fund, practically from underdeveloped areas and loans to beginners in business. In 2009, entrepreneurs will be allowed to have their funding allocations available throughout the year, and the emphasis will primarily be placed on education which is an important driver of small and medium-sized enterprises and youth enterprises, in order to address the major problem of youth unemployment. The start-ap loans in each amount have a 30 000-euro limit, they helped boost the entrepreneurial spirit this year. They have contributed that many young people with ideas can realise these ideas and open their own companies, primarily in undeveloped areas and in the 2009 budget, a fund that is larger than three billion dinars has been provided. The G17 Plus party aims to reduce the diversity between developed and undeveloped regions in Serbia, which is currently far greater than the European average. The main goal of the party is also to reduce unemployment in the coming years, because if we increase employment in Serbia, if we have this development component of the 2009 budget, which is of course not as expressed as in the 2008 budget because of the global economic if citizens are satisfied with their jobs, we have achieved our goal, because, without achieving that goal, we will not be able to solve a large social social programme, which is fundamentally, that each individual should be satisfied with his life. Finally, the G17 Plus party believes the draft budget is good and needs to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11129	Thank you, Mr. Zdravkovic. Mr. Petkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11130	Dear Presidency, Honored Ministers, Honorable fellow Members, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. Namely, the DSS MP group is the necessary information. A colleague, Zdravkovic, associated us with a statement by his head and vice-president of the government, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, recently given in Novi Sad (not to the investigative authorities, there will also be an opportunity, Mr Todorovic), but he said there is no legal basis for Vojvodina to belong to 90% of the NIS money and we fully support Mr Dinkic, since the Law on Privatisation is fully clear and that Vojvodina should belong 50% of the funds. However, in the draft budget, we had the opportunity to see that another agreement was reached, which was praised by Mr Pajtic. He even suggested that he "boxed" for Vojvodina 9%, not 7% as foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What can concern us is Mr Dinkic's statement that the details of the agreement should be asked by those involved, Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic and the President of the Vojvodina Executive Council, Bojan Pajtic. Obviously, there is a conflict in the Socially Responsible Government, that it is a conflict on the left, that the Deputy Prime Minister does not speak to his prime minister, but what is of interest to the DSS MPs, given that they have submitted amendments to Article 4, which has just regulated this matter – what this specifically refers to, and this will depend heavily on the adoption of the DSS amendment to Article 4, I think Serbia will be much more pleased than the way the draft budget provides. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11131	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11132	Dear Members of the People, I report to the same member by whom my colleague Petkovic from the DSS reported. We don't ask this question to leave this question without an answer. We expect an answer, and I think it would be good if we opened one of these questions to open up and discuss the subject. Simply, if certain problems and what we ask you in the form of questions, and this is not a small problem, it would be good to take it off the agenda after a normal debate, i.e. a response by the government or by a representative of the G17, so let's see what the problem is. If Mr Dinkic said it was against the law, and the G17 MPs are coming out and saying they're going to vote for that budget, then you're voting for something that's against the law. So, then you're in collegiate with a statement from your minister and party president. Is this G17 plus coming out and saying he's going to vote for something that's illegal, and, by all accounts, what you're saying here is that? Then make a deal with your party president. Either you are acting contrary to the provisions of your party bodies and the opinion of the party president or your party president was joking, but I don't think he was joking, given that the topic is very serious and that it is really unacceptable for 90% of the NIS privatisation to go into the circuit budget. And as Mr. Petkovic said, we have in the form of an amendment proposal on how to overcome the matter, how to fix and introduce it into legal frameworks, but it is another statement in a series of conflicting statements that exist between Mr. Dinkic, as a representative of G17 plus, on the one hand, and representatives of other parties in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it would be necessary, when this issue is already open, in a normal debate to answer the question asked by Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11133	Gentlemen, we are discussing the Budget Law in principle. This is practically a parliamentary question. They are representatives of the government here, but I think the answer would be delicate and pull away from the basic subject. Mr. Ostojić has his word, please. There's only seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11134	The President, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, you are strange, Mr. Nikolic, there are many things on this side. There are, say, those who say 400 million for NIS is small, because it's little then 200 belonging to Vojvodina, but if it's not 200 but 360, it's 400 million, and it's not bad. I think the whole budget is based on such contradictions and strange relationships. They say it's developmental and it's restrictive. I understand something about the economy, it'd be like inventing dry water. It's either developmental, or it's restrictive! In any case, the crisis of the house, the government realized, it agreed, that's where everyone packed up with this kind of contradiction that you've noticed, and now we have three and a half percent of the growth of the social product, that's projection, 8 percent of the inflation, and we're going to spend that money. It seems to me like if a man came home from work saying to a woman – a woman, in my company, started layoffs, maybe I'd come in line too, I was worried. He says, "Come on, sit down, let's talk about where we're going abroad to ski this winter, and let's see where we're going for a vacation." She says -- wait, maybe you'll get fired. He responds – never mind, we can plan. I don't know why you planned this when you know it's not real. You know in a month, two, three, you're gonna have to face the fact that 3.5% is a fantasy. Germany, which is the engine of Europe's economy, will have a negative growth. And Germany has agriculture, so it doesn't say it'll get her out. In any case, we suggest that you tighten the belt at the state level, give the breath and space to the economy and the population, and that means money. That's not in the budget. More than 28,000 employees remain in the existing system. We have a concept conflict with you, we think the state should be cheaper and more efficient, and that money to leave the economy. That is why we have proposed a series of measures: reducing excise duty in the area of energy trade, reducing tax burdens in the construction industry, reducing taxis and administrative costs in the area of the construction industry. It's growth engines. What are you doing? On the one hand, you tell the companies not to fire the workers. Why don't you cut your salary tax, and it'll encourage more business not to fire the workers. Where are you going to get that money? Well, the same from that economy. So when the economy is in trouble, and it is, it needs to be left with more money, and you want to take that money and share it according to your subjective intent. Public consumption, i.e. the share of public consumption in gross social product, will be because there will be no growth of 3.5%, greater than 45%, and we are constantly complaining – reduce public consumption. We've also proposed the abolition of unnecessary ministries and offices. Look, doubling jurisdiction. There's a office for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, there's 20 employees there, but there's a Republic Development Service, with 36 employees, when you look at jurisdiction it's a copy-pass. Not to mention the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, it also deals with how many employees there are that cannot be determined from this book because, for example, it does not write the number of employees of Mr Dinkic, as it says in Krkobic, Dacic and other vice presidents. Here's an example of a waste. At least there is Krkobic, 17, Dacic has 21 and Djelic has 20, but here is the number avoided. Rasim Ljajic, you may also declare him president of the Organizational Committee, celebrations, for example, battles on the Chegra. He is the universal minister, you gave him the financing, among other things, of the Ravnog Movement, the Association for the Care of the Yugoslav Army tradition in the country and the Serbian Chetnic Movement, so besides, one, 15 organisations and these three. And they gave it to the Ministry of Sports -- "Sanka Association of Serbia", "Sports' Climbing Organisation of Serbia", "Ski-Jet Alliance", imagine, there's something called "Brasil Jiu Jice", and there's "Japanese", and I'll show you later. Have you heard of the "Shooting Union for Serbia's Flying Targets"? And that's funded, not to mention "go alliance" and "kung fu higher alliance," not to mention "bridge." They are sports alliances, but I know that sport may be three, I'm not talking about sports alliances of traditional sports. So wasteful work! Since we're running out of time, I can say that we're conceptually different, that that's why we can't support that budget, because it's a waste of money, taking from an economy that's in a difficult situation, and that's why I would spend this last minute of LDP time saying something to my side, opposition. They proved to be incompetent. They want temporary funding. I know it's unacceptable for you to have me call you, so you can withdraw the amendments and we can adopt that budget politically, right? But therefore, ma'am, I appeal to you, there are among their amendments, we have not submitted amendments, and smart and overly, I'm not saying that everyone, sit down, agree, if you're really interested in not introducing the country into temporary financing. Talk to Mr. Cvetkovic, sit down, make a deal with them, something can be accepted, come on, let's end this agony. And I'm telling you, don't give them what they want, because temporary funding means more room for manipulation, for theft, theft and corruption! On the other hand, as I say, we don't have to show how incompetent they are anymore. It goes to the harm of all of us, and the state. So it's your move, and I deeply believe that there are responsible people on this side who want this agony to end. One more thing to tell you, they want this side to be guilty of everything that's wrong in this country. There are two universal reasons - the global economic crisis and the dispute between radicals, which is why Parliament is blocked. Don't give them an argument in their hands, let's get them out of here, 'cause life will collapse on their heads! What's in front of the street, what they won't be able to do, they'll get caught up in because they're incompetent. Open them up, show them, show the citizens they're incompetent. (President: Time. ) Do not give them reason to hide behind something that is a black hole, Parliament, etc., as they control the media, they have been working successfully for several months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11135	Mr. Milan Lapčević has a word, please, your parliamentary group has 13 minutes left, Mr. Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11136	In the course of my time, I will try to look back on the proposal for the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, which the Prime Minister said is both restrictive and developmental. I'm not going to say it again, that syntagma is a little weird, because it's impossible that, on the one hand, it's restrictive, and on the other hand, it's also developmental. I'll try to comment on a few notes that the Prime Minister himself said representing this budget. Among other things, he said, that this budget characterises the principle of solidarity, which means that all should bear their share of responsibility and their share of the burden to make it easier for us all, therefore, that is what the Prime Minister said, which is directly contrary to what it says in special items for each budgetary in the proposed budget. It may be justified for various other institutions that are financed from the budget, but if they look at the items concerning the cabinets of ministers and vice-presidents of the government, it immediately falls into the water. For dozens of times, we have talked here about this speaker and we from the DSS and other representatives of the opposition that when the economic crisis occurs, when it is uncertain whether the budget will be met according to the plan as envisaged by this draft budget, when the state should reduce its public spending, that those who are representing the budget, which are sitting in the government, must do so first, and then they can reduce the additions and expenditures in public spending in all other institutions. That is not the case, so, for example, the cabinet of the Prime Minister – the first Deputy Prime Minister – will have in this budget almost 72 million dinars, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration 67, for the economic development of 60, for the social policy of 50 million dinars. Each of these cabinets provides costs for contracts and travel costs from 5 million to 20 million dinars. Well, that's not how a flat distribution of costs and reduced budgets is done, so it's not about saving the budget, it's about wasting people's money. What is particularly interesting in this budget proposal, and I will look at it the most, in addition to the very problematic items relating to the charge of the budget caused by the implementation of the SAA and the reduction of customs revenues of 300m euros, so in this budget we will have less revenue in the year for at least 300m euros, and can happen even less, the other big negative implications of the unilateral application of the SAA is that, however, a weak economy, which does not have enough business activity, this year, will be less subsidized and less encouraged by cheap loans, also, agriculture, which is one of the major operators of economic development, will have five billion less subsidies in the coming year. It means that such an economy and such agriculture will be further affected by the unilateral application of the SAA, as customs duties on imported products will be reduced, and the domestic economy will have more expensive loans so that it cannot be competitive, which will further affect both the decline in production and employment and revenues in the country. What is the biggest problem, in my view, in this budget, is contained in Article 3, if I am not mistaken, where it is said that the Vojvodina budget will be included from the sale of the "Optic Industry of Serbia" 90% of the income, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia is only 10% of the sales revenue, and it is exclusively from Article 61. The Privatization Act. I once said here that it was very controversial that everything sold in Vojvodina was 50% detached for the province's administration. What is now proposed is anti-constitutional, as this breaks through the projected 7% for Vojvodina and is against the Privatisation Act, as 90% of the sales of the oil industry of Serbia are expected to go to the Vojvodina budget. I'm asking you, does this mean that from Nis, because in that town, the tobacco industry of Nis, which was sold four years ago, we now need to look for 90% of the Nis budget and our region? Does that mean that? Does that mean that when the "Road's Topipian Basen Bor" is sold next year, that Borani should organize with neighbouring municipalities and ask 90% of the budget for their municipalities, because they are very underdeveloped. Is that right? What is the reason that 90% of the proceeds from the sale of the oil industry of Serbia go to Vojvodina? Will these be financed by undeveloped municipalities in Vojvodina? According to all data in Vojvodina, more developed municipalities than in other parts of Serbia, especially in southern and eastern Serbia. This is how you violate both the Constitution and the Privatization Act. In this way, by selling the oil industry of Serbia, 90% will belong to Vojvodina and 10% to Serbia, as if 90% of the traffic and 90% of the property were on the territory of Vojvodina. In Nis and surrounding municipalities alone, at least 60m euros is the value of NIS assets and about 10% of traffic. I have submitted an amendment to a member of the law, which says that as much traffic as the value of NIS property on our territory must belong to those municipalities. This is one thing that can't go past all these things about budget waste, we can't support a bill like this, which is, firstly, anti-constitutional, and secondly, contrary to the Privatisation Act. Finally, most importantly, they are absolutely not realistic and are not just, solutions in the proposed budget. I will talk more about individual solutions when it comes to my amendment, but this kind of budget and such proposals by certain members in this bill cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11137	Thank you. Mr. Bortic. There are just over three minutes left for the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11138	Dear Presidents, honourable government representatives, distinguished fellow MPs, this item of the agenda is one of the most important, both for our MPs and for all citizens of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the draft budget, has shown a high degree of political realism, and I therefore believe that this large text, despite all its shortcomings that can and should be discussed, should be adopted. The budget shows the government's view that in terms of the global recession, it seeks to maintain development policy priorities and avoid bad business traps. Perhaps the analysis may resent the government's determination to allocate significantly more funds to some ministries than last year, and to other ministries and 30% less funds than in 2008. However, this shows the government's intention to lead a rational and thriftful policy, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to stimulate those branches of society's development that it considers priority. What should be pointed out is the need for the ministry's expenditure to be reduced to the least possible in the coming year, as there are savings opportunities. In that sense, an act should be adopted to regulate this area. The most important thing for all of us is that the deficit in the budget should not be uncovered. As an MP from the Machuvan district area, I want to point out that this district is one of the largest in Serbia, and that according to the draft budget, it gets less funds than any other, not counting those in the KIM area. From the Machuvan County, less funds are given only to the Phinehas County. I don't need to remind myself that several economic branches exist in the Machuvan district, among which is dominant agriculture. In this context, if we want to get closer to European standards in this area, a different approach is needed in the distribution of budgets. At the very end, I would like to point out that in the conditions of the recession that we are already going through, we must not run such a policy of distribution of budgets, which would ignore the lives of people who could possibly lose their jobs. Therefore, a rational and responsible social policy is necessary to ensure that the burden of the crisis is evenly distributed to all layers of society. With such a policy and with the measures of stimulating support for all development branches of the economy, especially those exported to the world market, which enables the quick return of funds to the state register, we from the MP club SPS - Unique Serbia, we are confident that this government will ensure the development of society in the right way and bring the country out of the crisis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11139	Thank you. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Your group has eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I expected a far, far more serious budget from the proposings, therefore, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, than the one found before the Serbian Parliament. When a country is poor, such as Serbia is poor, and when a global economic crisis is in the environment, we do not have a budget to represent the result, or reality of these two factors, we already have a budget, i.e. a budget that is the result of ambition, vanity, unfulfilled pre-election promises and the apprehension of small parties, with even smaller presidents, who at high state functions are bright and dress Serbia. So I'm not surprised that the Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, explained the budget a little less than two minutes. I'm not surprised that the finance minister explained the budget for a little over five minutes, though, slowly reading what was written, which in some faster reading might be even shorter. If the budget were a result of unrealisticity, we could look at the first revenue side of the budget. Be careful, in 2009, a higher income of eight billion is planned, only from the company's profit tax. Apparently, he who wrote this information did not make sure that many companies and legal persons would show loss caused by exchange rates and dinar declines. Another more optimistic thing, it is said that the value added tax from imports will be about 14 billion more. The prime minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, says -- you know, we'll take off customs. Because customs duties will be lifted, more goods will be imported, and we will charge a higher value added tax. The one who said that had to take care to keep the same value added tax from imports, with the customs duties down, needed to import about 15% more goods into the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And with this increase, more imports are needed by about 25%. If we take into account the amount of money circulating on the market, that the number of workers is falling, that will make less money, if imports are increased, who will suffer the greatest damage? Homemade producers. Domestic products are dropping and domestic consumption is dropping! And from where wages are received, except from the Serbian budget, are received right from real sources, from production. If you don't have anyone to pay, I'm asking a question, and then who's gonna fill your budget? From what sources do you think you are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia? As this budget is the result of savings, reality, it tells us the very information about how you behave when you have the resources. I'll name it on one case, concerning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to details, we'll get a little bit more into that matter, but I'm just saying that we have for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, a special cabinet that needs to spend 72 million dinars. Check this out, Prime Minister's office - 61,750,000. What is the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to spend more than the President's cabinet?- I'm sorry. To make things worse, Mr. Dacic is also Minister of the Interior. The man has two cabinets, two jobs, does he have two salaries, I wonder?- I'm sorry. But apparently his ambitions are that he will have money and power, extremely large. Then we have the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the area of European integration, Mr Bozidar Djelic. He's supposed to spend 67 million dinars, while at the same time he's the minister of science and technological development. Be careful, and Djelic will spend more than the cabinet of the Prime Minister. And he has two cabinets, two jobs. Is there two salaries, or is he sick of what he earned at the Meridian Bank, so this comes for his allowance?- I'm sorry. You have, on the other hand, the third cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Krkobic, to spend 50 million dinars. So three vice presidents will spend four times as much as one Prime Minister, and he should unite the cabinets of vice presidents, and all the ministries and spend less again. Now, gentlemen, let's get back to the beginning of my discussion, this budget is the result of ambition, vanity, unfulfilled pre-election promises and the haughtiness of small parties with even smaller leaders, who, with high positions, dress Serbia. God help us! During the speech of MP Veroljub Arsic, the MPs of the SRS are pounding about the benches all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11141	Thank you. There's only one and a half minutes left for the MP's group. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momir Markovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11142	Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Dragutinović, I don't think you should ignore the discussion of this predecessor at all, I can't say that the MP has a rich experience especially in finance, the experience gained in the STR as the owner of the independent trade, and as far as the budget is concerned, he has experience, because the budget has been filled with fines for tax evasion, at least a few times, as far as I know. There's one problem. The problem is that in order to criticize someone's order or someone's proposal must have some sort of moral, human quality. No one who stole 15,000 votes from Serbian citizens can talk about morality. Not someone who, I say, tried to mutilate a large party's finances to talk about honor and morality. He can't criticize, but well, you've accepted, the yellow company has accepted. He and many who sit upstairs proved their immorality. You know by that people's saying, "Soldier of shortness, Arsic, about honesty." There's a lot to apologize for. I believe that the criticism that opposition MPs are giving should be understood, to correct what can be done. But to take advantage of the opportunity since I had little time left because I failed to answer one question of the head of this family last night, when he asked me what to swear, he went out for a pay phone, he started saying something, I told him – come on swear, but when they swear then you know they're lying. He says, "What do I swear?" Well, to morality, Mr. Nikolic, to honor, Mr. Nikolic, to cheek, to honesty! I guess you've got something left after this betrayal. You didn't spend it all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11143	The word is Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11144	I have to go out on the line, right, even Momir Markovic, who's accusing an MP, who has no proof, that he's a criminal, that he's been doing tax evasion. Mr. Markovic, you've been in custody for a month for commercial crime. You're still under trial, Mr. Markovic. Shut up, at least, until it's over. What kind of criminal charges are against you, you say it's not legal, and you say there are against other MPs for criminal charges. So first, look into your aviary, Mr. Markovic, and not about morality, don't touch me, I've got worse things to do. As soon as I saw you coming out for the pay phone, I knew someone had to come down and answer you. You started going out for the pay phone again, Mr. Markovic. For a time, you were punished and removed from all functions in the SRS, and you think you'll be back in office. Don't touch us, people, do your job, do your politics! Squawk, bang, do whatever you want, don't touch the Serbian Progressive Party! You chose to stay in the party, we chose to leave, you have, shut up, what does anyone ask you? It doesn't make sense, Natasha. I used to be your father. You decided to stay, and we decided to leave, you have your mandates, we have our mandates. We have, Mr. Todorovic, our mandates earned at least as much as you have earned yours. We still have a mandate with you, but here's what I'm not pushing for anymore. We'll have choices, so this situation will be resolved. I know how dissatisfied you are with what's going on in the SRS. You could go to drummer school, you're already getting a rhythm, you're pretty good at it. And he who is left without a single member, and he beateth, and he who beateth the woman, and he beateth. You're all back together now, you're in trouble. I'm watching you stay together. You're gonna get your head shaked, you're gonna have that attitude, you're not gonna be able to stop it. Watch out, when you're banging, just watch your hand to work, 'cause when your hand shakes, it's not too dangerous. So, you're doing something political, don't just wait for one of us to come out for a pay phone, so it's like something's got you having to react to it. You can still get away with it, you just have to make some cuts, those that make you bang, insult them, just to change them, then you'll be a very prominent political party, until you change them, you'll continue to fail. During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, SRS MPs are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11145	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11146	I would not answer because it is not my level to replicate to Mr Nikolic if he did not mention the word "father", first because he knows that I haven't had an eight-year life of my father, who is one of the founders of the Serbian Chetnic Movement from the SRS in Kragujevac and whom Mr Nikolic knew very well. Mr. Nikolic, if you meant it politically, you've never really been it. Our political father and ideologist of all these honorable people here and hundreds of thousands of Serbian radicals is Professor Vojislav Seselj. He was not only our teacher, he was yours. After all, why don't I remind you of what you've said so many times at the myths and from this pay phone – one is Vojislav Seselj. And the fact that I was brought up in the highest moral Serbian values and the success of the Holy Virgin Church in Kragujevac swore that I would honor the statute, program and ideology of the SRS, at the moment I was entrusted with the mandate of the National MP, in the same church where I was baptized after my birth on Easter, back in 1966, that is your problem, because what they taught me in the house, that I respect values, that I respect the Lord God, our Orthodox faith, and the late father taught me to respect Dr Vojislav Seselj, I will do with honor and honesty for the rest of my life, and you see what you will leave to your successors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11147	Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11148	Thank God I have heirs, so they'll have something left! What I leave to them will remain, or glory, and I hope glory, or someone with contempt will speak of me, and so will it be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11149	Gentlemen, please allow Mr. Nikolic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11150	I've done politics long enough so there are people who love me and there are people who don't love me. Ms. Jovanovic, this "ma'am" is my definition for you as an unmarried woman, that I was your political father hearing it from Bora Pelevic at a rally in Kragujevac, because as I was saying, you told Mr. Pelević – this is my political father. That was so, Miss Jovanovic, if you swore in church after these elections, then you honor that oath, but you lie that after these elections you swore in church, because after these elections none of the Serbian radicals swore in church. We swore after all the elections, and when those who swore in church betrayed us, I said that it was no longer worth taking you to church, who wants to go will go and look neither at God. So you're liars if you claim someone left without swearing to the church that they won't leave! We didn't swear after these elections in the church! That's all true. Otherwise, I greatly appreciated your late father and don't forget, he recommended taking care of you one day when he brought you into the party. I took care of you as much as you allowed, now let others worry, but you can see how they teach you and what they ask of you. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11151	You didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? I ask MPs when they advertise the Rules of Procedure to say, however, which member of the Rules of Procedure. So 104. Ms. Jovanovic wanted to see the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11152	Mr. Nikolic, it's symptomatic that you only have a problem with women in the SRS, it's really a problem. I really don't know what you are, you need to see it, the public will evaluate you. Personally, I don't think you need any more importance to be attached from this pay phone, nor at all, because of the fact that you were in several announcements yesterday, replicating one lady, one mother, widow, Mrs. Gordani Pop-Lazic showed her true face. She asked you out on a political TV duel. Anyone from the SRS Group can do that, they don't have to have that distinctive speaker barrage that you're trying to win over to the Serbian public, but it's just floscules. Without the ideology you left, and 10 days ago you said, "I am now free to spread my idea, so what have you been doing for the past 18 years?" No one trusts you with their child, so neither did my late father. You are trusted to be an honorable man and to be a deputy president, a man who is the founder of the Serbian Radical Party and who is the founder of this ideology. And the post of deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party, which you now well noticed, a certain number of days ago, no longer exists, was invented because of you. You know why? Because Dr. Vojislav Seselj is a man of noble and broad heart, and he wanted to let you know from the beginning, because he knew that you were a vain man, that you could be in the rank of him, and all these people who are now vice presidents of the Central Country Administration, who are members of the College, who are members of the Central Country Administration and the Executive Board, municipal and city boards, all of this work from the purest ideals, and that's why we're going to win all the elections. What anyone told you, especially a man with whom I haven't spoken five simple sentences, as Mr. Pelevic mentioned, I really don't know, but what I do know is that I will always work for the interests of my country and my people and what my greatest wish is, and I believe not only the people sitting here in the hall and not only on this side where Serbian radicals are, but there are also in the members of the ruling coalition, and above all millions of Serbs, is that they are alive and healthy and indeed in the greatest political upheaval of the following year, Dr. Vojislav Seselj returns to the country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11153	The word is Mr. Markovic, and so is Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11154	I even have to go out to Tomislav Nikolic because he said a little bit – even to Momi Markovic, here, and I even have to go out on the line for him. Mr. Nikolic, the church is not STR Arsicev so that every day is entered and the oath is taken every day, the oath is taken as you get baptized once, the oath is taken once and is valid for life and for all the mandates you get from that party. That's the first one. (President: Mr Markovic, just tell us which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. [[Applause]] ( ) Article 104 — Dignity of the Assembly. Secondly, it's true that I was two-and-a-half months in Sable custody, not in prison, for a felony, as they say, abuse of official office, which I hired 78 people. If I were in a situation today, I'd do the same. And about your crimes, your criminal charges that stand and wait to be prosecuted, we'll discuss that when the trial begins and the trial is over. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11155	The word is Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11156	Madam President, Article 104, although I was already speaking, you were not there, you were in a conversation with the union. As I understand it, the representatives of the Serbian Union have come from their session right to us and have had a meeting with you, then have gone to the government, and then come back as agreed with you, sent them from below, to say, from reception, to office number 73, where, people, came to the lights off. Apparently, they were to hold a meeting with all representatives of the parliamentary groups. I'm more interested in liars who are in power now than in the debate we see in the opposition again. These people were promised a collective contract. Interestingly, on April 29th, it was signed, so before the May 11th elections, the four municipalities expanded the fact of the collective agreement with them, the government minister signed it, and now they're told there's nothing. It's clear to me that you tricked them, that you used it in the campaign, and now it's coming to you. So, the people upstairs are waiting, you promised them a meeting with representatives of the parliamentary groups, and there's no one but the DSS, there's no one, there's no one out there, I think there was a New Serbia, I saw Velimir Ilic there. Is that meeting organized? Why are those people sitting up there waiting? They were told at 5:00, and now it's 5:30, and there's nobody up there to talk to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11157	Mr. Markicevic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure. I just wanted to let you know that the representatives of the Independent Union have had a conversation with me and that they have informed me that they intend to step up, through the relevant committees and parliamentary groups, activities related to the amendment that they will submit, or which they have already submitted, as I understand them, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group. So people do their jobs, trade unions, and we do ours here in the O.R. I didn't invite them at all, I just received them because they asked me to receive them, and so Mrs. Comic chaired a part while I was talking to them. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11158	The Honorable President, in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall be Rules of Procedure. You have already informed the public, both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia and all the workers. I think the Independent Union has not only referred the amendment application to New Serbia, but to all parliamentary groups. Today, some of the MPs of New Serbia, we have waited for them in front of the Assembly and told them what you have now conveyed here, that on their behalf in the same text, with the same explanation, that amendment and submitted. The government, or MPs of the ruling coalition who voted for this government, will have the opportunity to declare the agreement, or the amendment that we have submitted, and the agreement was signed several days or weeks ago with the Independent Union after a session of the Social-Economic Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that council, just to remind you, six ministers are participating and all agreed to sign the agreement, and afterwards someone, I think, is Rasim Ljajic, on behalf of the government and signed the agreement. And that is the amendment that we have submitted, practically, which is what the Independent Union in the letter of Mr Ljubisav Orbovic asked the parliamentary groups to do. That's what New Serbia has done and respected. From this explanation of yours, I understand that you and your MP group will support this amendment and vote for the workers of Serbia, to give them and to give them what is promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11159	Thank you. We'll set up a vote at the MP's club. Mr. Milenić has his word, please. Your MP group has nine minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11160	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, I would use this relatively brief discussion of the 2009 Budget Law to put two emphasiss on this topic, from the point of view of budget analysis as a programming document. There is, at Orwell in "84", a very cleverly worded criticism against totalitarian left-wing demagogy and propaganda in the world of work, which referred to the labor left in the time of writing the novel, which is about to say the following – with the big brother two plus two could have been three, it could have been five, depending on the need and requirement of the moment, but when that bill was needed to construct the plane or when the top two and two were always four, which seemed to be a very exact line of distinction between the declared and real interests, intention, goals. And indeed, when quantifiers enter into the analysis of plans and intentions, then there is simply no more twisting, no matter how much they want us to like each other, no matter how much they want us to recommend ourselves on various sides – we actually show what real goals, quantities and values we operate on. So in this spirit, I view it as a programming document -- the budget shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia cares, above all, about two values: a document that will support macroeconomic stability, as well as a document that will meet social responsibility requirements. In that sense, indeed, from the point of view of the responsibility that the government has demonstrated in creating this document, it deserves the most praise. But I'm not sure the same amount of praise follows for the level of courage shown. Indeed courage is not a value that could universally be required and hence it cannot be established as a duty, because it is impossible to ask anyone to be brave. Courage belongs to what we call the ethics – the opera super horn, we greet whenever we encounter it, but no one can be imperatively asked. However, the question may be raised whether without categorically required courage it is possible to strengthen, on such internal and external occasions, reform policy in Serbia? In order to be clear what I mean, perhaps this is most directly possible to demonstrate already on the first pages of the 2009 Budget Law, when, say, the total projected income level is equal to the current expenditures, and that capital investments are, in fact, equivalent to or approximately equal to the planned budget deficit, or perhaps even more precisely if I say – beyond any doubt, the savings are affirmative value, which must be demonstrated primarily in the field of public spending. At least it wasn't equally important to insist on investment and development. To be quite precise, this is not a criticism, but rather an indication or perhaps an incentive to do so – that Serbia needs a new courage to continue, despite all circumstances, with all obstacles organised and spontaneously, with reforms and a clearly defined course of European integration. Serbia needs a new courage as is demonstrated in yet significant parts of the budget, such as – when 20 billion dinars are defined for the needs of the NIP, when 14 billion dinars are set aside for the realization of the most important production project, which will, to a greater extent, solve the real employment problem, I am talking about 'Fiat' rather than what certain social measures would be, when we come across 20 billion dinars identified that through the Government Development Fund, funds for the incentive and development of small and medium-sized enterprises are transferred. Such measures simply must continue, as I repeat, Serbia needs new courage to establish continuity with the will to advance and only exceed its reach. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11161	Thank you. He's got a word from Mr. Pai Boys. Here you go. Your task force has 60 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, the MPs of the SRS, of course, as the introduction said, cannot vote for a budget like this. We've heard from the prime minister that this should be the budget of community, solidarity, continuity. As far as the community is concerned, if you think it's something that characterizes this government, I don't think the events that we've witnessed -- they can't quite confirm it. I'm not going to say a specific situation when the Minister of Industry says one thing, and the Minister of Economic Development says the other at the same board session, and we can show a whole series of other examples. When you talk about continuity, it's hard for this principle to be truly satisfied and rational in the present situation. If we have an economic crisis that is already present and coming, then how can you talk about continuity? On the contrary, you must then establish certain discontinuity. In what way? You need to review your current policy, which you wanted to implement earlier, and you need to set new priorities. And, of course, someone is going to say that you have to be rational and rational to the end, which means that you have to be thrifty. Nobel laureate Jozef Stiglic, recently in Belgrade, told you nicely that the epicenter of the economic tsunami, located in America, will hit the periphery most, including Serbia. He told you another great truth, the Nobel laureate is, is it so that the flora on regulation of the market in economic relations no longer comes into account, that it has fallen into the water, as well as the great importance of major independent national banks. That's what Stiglitz told you here in Belgrade, you could hear nicely. You see, what wasn't done to make your mission work? You, first of all, did not give an analysis of the results of the previous budget. You're taking us from the dark to the dark. All serious countries first analyze how they implemented the previous budget, and then continue to build something that would be new. There is no one who will not agree that it is a huge public spending; that we have a major trade deficit; that we have an exhibition of the People's Bank with an unreal course, which has its consequences again, and then we have something that is economically highly suspicious, implementing the Trade Agreement with the EU. We ourselves want to demonstrate our commitment. I wouldn't call it that, either, but I don't want to use rough terms, so let's skip it. We give up our own customs revenues, in a situation where it's going to be very difficult to obtain funds and investments, it's probably clear to everyone. So, who do we hit the most? We hit our farmers who are reducing subsidies and who are now in an extremely unequal position, when we look at farmers from developed countries. They're not our farmers, they'd withstand the competition of peasants from other developed countries, but they can't withstand subsidies. How do developed countries behave today? You know best. What are their subsidies, how are they now protecting their motor industry? You don't even have to talk. It is clear to all that protectionism and state intervention are being measured and how they apply. But all of this, if we accept a budget like this, if we have to stop working, say, "U.S. Steel" that participates with 14% of exports, if we have a decrease in investment, if we have inflation, if we have to fire workers, it inevitably leads to "Argent syndrome," and you, i.e. The government, or those who run the government, are fully aware that there is a need to avoid "Argentin syndrome" and you are already very much preparing measures, either for the reconstruction of the government or for new elections. The false optimism we saw with individual representatives of the government, Djelic and Dinkic, I thought it was their own piece of work. However, when I read Simon Grey's letter on the World Health Bank website, and he's the director of the Belgrade office, where he was extremely irresponsible to say that we are in an extraordinary position and that we can really get out of this with only a strengthened economy, I saw these poor people convincing what the mentor said was a task. But I'm a doctor, so I wouldn't fall into a trap, so to deal with what I know far less than my fellow economists and you, as a minister, I'd just agree with one of your sentences, when you said your mom was making a better lunch for your friends than going to a bar. But this lunch you made for us isn't from our local cuisine. Unfortunately, the IMF here was the boss, and there were others and more. We say to the midwives: When there are many midwives, children know how to be very sour. Something to say about this part, about health care. The basic regret, again, when you look at what was planned from the health costs, from the cost of the Ministry of Health and from the Republic Health Insurance Fund. We can say that we can be relatively satisfied. In the last year 10 billion and 999 million were available, now the Ministry has 12 million 530 thousand. That's 11% increase. If we look at what the Health Insurance Fund had, it had 193 billion and 150 million dinars, and now it has 172 million and 376 thousand and it's 12% higher. But there is one thing that worries us. You have defined in your Memorandum that you are going to reduce the incidence of health dinar in gross national income, and you are now suggesting that with 6.2% of gross national income, we should go to 5.9% of gross national income for health care from these public funds. Believe me, that's not a good point. Serbia has a difficult health situation. Developed countries have a total cost of 10%. No one in Serbia knows what the total costs are, how much our poor citizens pay, how much they have been robbed, which is from the system and the law of Minister Milosavljevic, that and from unconscious doctors. Please don't cut these rates, it's not a reduction situation! You want to go to Europe. In the developed countries of Europe, total health leave is 10% of gross national income. Hold on, that's it, at least. What needs to be said, redefining goals and health policy measures is not available. This is an autistic example of the health budget, where there is no crisis, as if it would not be difficult, but insists on maintaining something that started eight years ago. What started eight years ago, unfortunately, is not good, and it must suffer severe criticism. Why? The state of health of the Serbian people and of our citizens is extremely difficult. Why? The integrity of Serbian citizens is biologically at stake. First, 30,000 of us die more than we're born, we disappear from these fields. For what? Because of the white plague. Secondly, because of chronic non-infectious diseases affecting this country, which are diseases that can be prevented. What measures? Cheap prevention measures and strengthening primary health care. This budget is all the opposite of strengthening primary health care, from investment in these measures. We almost had a public debate on a strategy to prevent and control chronic non-infectious diseases. The National Assembly Health Committee welcomed this first step and the Action Plan should have already joined the implementation of certain programmes. Who are our greatest enemies? These are cardiovascular diseases, malignancies, chronic, pulmonary and sugar. To what extent - the factors of the fight against risk factors, not to pick them up now, are they well known, however, what does this document offer us? He's not talking anywhere about prevention and protection against cardiovascular diseases that are the killers of the number one of our people. And what did he take to do? He took it to work, to fight in a symbolic way certain diseases that mattered. We will allocate 6.5 million dinars to combat malignancies. At the same time, in the same budget project, 170 million stands out for HIV. Please, is HIV a national problem to invest 170 million for HIV and only 6.5 million for malignancies?- I'm sorry. It's madness! If you're looking at the second, that for diabetes, which concerns 300 thousand potentially ill and sick, you're giving away to prevent two million dinars. Watch out, for HIV 170, for diabetes 2 million?- I'm sorry. There are a whole series of items that are completely unclear here. I don't have much time to explain them. What's terrible is spending on building new capacities, raising new clinical centres, billions going there, these are loans, and there's no exits. The Ministry and the Minister are only interested in tenders, he is only interested in where it can be installed, and prevention and true concern for the fight for the preservation of health and our biological identity does not interest Mr. Minister. That's this budget. After all, we will explain to you in detail all of these dubious and abnormalities that are here. It's not your fault personally. It's not Mr. Cvetkovic who runs this government. It's Boris Tadic and the tycoons, along with mentors in the image of ministers, we were talking about once, it's that British guy. And what is scariest and most tragic is that they do not work in the interest of the health of the Serbian people, but rather lead it into an even worse health situation with this draft budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11163	National MP Simo Vukovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11164	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I'm advocating the violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In the previous presentation, Dr Momchilov was presented with a series of flat-rate evaluations at the expense of the Ministry of Health and Resoring Minister Prof. Tomice. I can only understand that perhaps you, as Serbian radicals, are not happy that after a decade we will first reconstruct four clinical centres in the Republic of Serbia, which are built from credit funds. You've provided data relating to the HIV-related programme, AIDS. You should know that these 170 million programming funds are from the Global Fund. Then you gave the assessment that there is no appropriate strategy and health policy of the Ministry of Health, which is actually based on programming documents from 2002, 2003 and 2005. These are all strategic documents and please get acquainted with it. You presented information on the fight against chronic non-infectious diseases, and we sat alone on the board when you had the opportunity to get acquainted with a strategy that was valid and made up by top experts, and I will point out in my presentation, which is about the budget itself, what are the basic budgetary positions that are planned to combat chronic non-infectious diseases, which you have highlighted here. First of all, you made one wrong assessment regarding the fight against cardiovascular disease. I agree, they're the number one problem in the health condition of the population, but please look at the funds that are being allocated from the so-called. The tobacco dinar, which I think is 610 million dinars. Even if it were, it could be even more, but once again I ask you to still use a different relationship and a dictionary with a little more respect, as is similar to this high home, in the policy of the ministry and the Secretary of Resort.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11165	Mr. Momchilov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wasn't talking about the Minister of Health at all. I said it wasn't his fault. In my opinion, a man who's already taken up the position he's in has shown what he knows and can and I'm taking him out of every guilt. It's the ones who put him in that position. Let's get this straight. You said I was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who was the one who told you I was the one who The data is, unfortunately, very accurate. For participation in financing and construction, equipment of health institutions, we have a reconstruction of clinical centres – two billion and 823 million, not to go any further. Two million and 400 are credit, and 423 million are budget funds. First, those funds are combined. They also go from the budget, and they go from credit funds. On the side that for those assets that are still and still we are paying interest and we have paid, it is a special shame and shame, if from 2000 to 2008, DOS and its managers, who managed this health sector, were unable to reconstruct these clinical centres, although it was necessary for them to do so. Are you going into the development of tertiary and secondary health, if you have a threatening economic crisis? Is this the right time or isn't it? You said I was wrong to say that for the treatment of HIV troops, 170 million. Yes, it is. I'm just pointing to one proportionality, that you two million predict to prevent a diabetes that affects at least 300,000 people at one point, and you've decided to isolate this much with HIV. That's one really big disproportion. What you're saying about smoking and about the dinar, through the dinar, where it's going to stand out to prevent cardiovascular disease, yes, I know it's going to be set aside for some machines and for the purchase of equipment, at least that's how I could see here, that's in no way prevention, especially those four magical numbers that I tried to quote you. What's particularly interesting, when I came forward, we had those expenses last year for that same clinical center, so we had two billion 950s in total, and now we have two billion and 800. What about those two billion?- I'm sorry. Is that happening again? Is that "Skodar on Boyna"? Explain that and let's see, so let's talk seriously. Therefore, everything I said is in numbers, as Mr. Vujadinovic says, and you now explain these 2 billion and 950 for last year's clinical centres. Take the budget, where is it?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11167	Mr. Filip Stojanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11168	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I question the Serbian government, as well as representatives of the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal -- how is it possible that they co-operate with The Hague tribunal, which has put a map of Serbia on official internet presentation, on which Kosovo and Metohija are designated as an independent state? On the aforementioned map of Serbia used by the UN tribunal in The Hague, Belgrade and Pristina are marked by a square, according to legend as part of the map of marks for the capital. Do you know, gentlemen of the Serbian government, what is the capital of our country? The UN tribunal should be an international court before which individual criminal responsibility should be determined. Instead, the UN tribunal in The Hague applies the concept of collective criminal responsibility and invents new borders of countries in Europe. Who authorized him to do something like that? How is it possible for the Serbian government to co-operate with international institutions treating the southern Serbian province as an independent state? In this way, Boris Tadic violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in fact recognises KIM's independence. Did the authorities in Serbia ever ask the tribunal in The Hague to remove this map from its official presentation on the internet, which legalises genocide against Serbs in KIM? What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do about this, and what does the Ministry of Justice do? Every day they brainwash the citizens, how we must co-operate with the tribunal in The Hague. Dear ladies and colleagues, if we respect the Constitution, we must not co-operate with an international institution that knowingly and intentionally reduces the borders of the Republic of Serbia and treat Pristina as the capital. It's for us, including Boris Tadic, the law. That's why I invite you to come to your senses and start respecting the Constitution. Interrupt co-operation with the UN tribunal in The Hague, for which KIM is independent! I will ask the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to hand these maps over to the competent ministries and ask for a written reply – what has been done about this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11169	Mr. Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11170	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that I have very little time left for the G17 Plus parliamentary group, I'm just going to look back at a few facts relating to budgetary positions concerning the health care system. The head of our parliamentary group today said that G17 plus will not submit amendments to the 2009 budget proposal. Of course, we'll vote for a budget like this. I have to point out that it's good, as far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, that the programme's budget planning is going on and that's one of the few ministries within the government that has this concept and a modern way of putting together budgets. Realistically, there are larger resources allocated to healthcare than last year, but when the cost structure is considered, it will certainly allocate slightly less resources to health in different positions. What I would like to point out, it seems to me that Dr Momchilov said in one of his presentations, and I can agree with that, because I was on the Health and Family Committee, which is one conclusion that we adopted, that health care in Serbia should not fall below 6% in relation to the gross social product, because it brings us to the quality health care zone of the population of the Republic of Serbia. What I would point out as a reserve, regardless of what I will vote for this draft budget, are the funds that are intended to cover the health care of the population that are achieving the right and health insurance under Article 22, which are the funds of 3.6 billion dinars. Of course, in the budget's explanation that these funds will be provided from other sources, a simple calculation tells us that for the health care of these persons, I will point out that they are students, young people up to 26 years old, children aged 15 years, women in relation to reproductive health, so let's say both monks and nuns, so there are about 714 thousand such citizens in Serbia. If we were to calculate the right basis for the separation for the health care of this part of the population, we would need a little more than 17 billion dinars. Discretion is huge, so 3.6 billion. As far as I know, the ministry required at least 5 billion to be allocated, I see it is in the proposal to allocate up to five billion funds from the Kosovo supplement. However, I warn that if the policy of write-off of debt to the Republic Health Insurance Institute is continued in terms of contributions and interest, and then burdens in terms of overdoing health care funds from regular contributions, we can destabilise the very difficult establishment of a financing system within the Republic Health Insurance Office. Of course the costs will be, I'm just stating this information that you said that 21 billion were spent in 2008 for these persons in Article 22. The Health Insurance Act and it will certainly be the same in 2009. Therefore, the Republic Institute will again transfer large debts in the coming year 2010. I once again appeal to MPs in the Assembly and members of the Government not to continue the practice of write-off debt to the Republic Health Insurance Office. Once again, G7 plus will support this budget. (President: Time. I'm just finishing up for a few more seconds. As for the funds allocated for prevention, as far as I could see, over 30% of the total means of protection is intended for preventive action. You can see for yourself that about 500 million dinars are set aside for a very important area, which is to fight chronic non-infectious diseases, i.e. early detection programs such as breast cancer, uterus, colon, and this will cover a population of about 735 thousand people, or women. I think we'll have the results of that very soon. (President: Will you bring the end, please? I'm done. So, of course it takes both bigger and more resources for such a thing, but such a restrictive budget has allowed us to do at least this much in the field of health care during 2009. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11171	MP Zoran Nikolic. Your MP group has five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11172	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is not burned to say once again and remind the public that this draft budget proposed by the government at the very beginning is burdened with the fact that both the Government Act and the Budgetary System Act have been violated. This fact indicates that, when we talk about economic policy itself, there is not a single policy and that there is a lot of problems in the government itself when we talk about this draft budget, because we have had the opportunity to see and hear serious debates, even today when we have this draft budget ahead of us, between individual ministers. Addressing the National Assembly, or MPs, the prime minister, or the Prime Minister, said that this budget is based on three basic principles, that the first principle is the principle of the community, or as he said the unity, that is, the principle that all parties of the ruling coalition, after considering different options, have accepted this concept and stand behind it. We, as of yesterday, have a statement by Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dinkic, who says it is illegal and that he cannot agree that 90% of the privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia belongs to the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, as indicated by this draft budget. I wonder, then, is this principle of community or unity being questioned, as the prime minister has indicated? I think so. When we consider how many struggles were within the government whether to join a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement as of 1 January 2009 or not, then we also see that we cannot talk about the principle of community. It is my impression that both the finance minister and the prime minister were prone to the solution that we would not go into this unilateral application of the Trade Agreement as of January 1st. That was logical, for the simple reason, which, when you are in crisis and when the crisis is financial and economic surrounding you, is not smart for the state to deprive revenue of 300-350m euros. However, we have seen that after some threats and fighting in the media, the government has decided to deprive these revenues. Speaking of a unilateral application of the Trade Agreement, this is indeed a unique case, no country that has been in the EU accession process has done so, especially when you have one contract, then if the contract enters into force on 1 January 2009, then it should be for both Contracting Parties, like this, we have shown that we are greater Catholics than the Pope, which confirms that the tendency to see European integration here as an ideology rather than through the prism of the real interests that are legitimate, which the EU has, but which we should also have. The second principle, which the prime minister pointed out, is the principle of solidarity, as the prime minister said, that everyone submits their share of responsibility, in order to make it easier for everyone. There is no such principle of solidarity in this draft budget. Because, due to the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement and the reduction of that income, that revenue side had to be replaced in another way, so the government's decision is to increase the revenue side through excises and we are now in a situation that, if all this ends by 29, we will additionally burden certain products and alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, which is not the problem, but also fuel, and fuel is one of the most important instructions in each production, in each production branch. This also directly burdens our businessmen, and this can have serious and serious consequences for citizens' standards. What is proposed by this draft budget is also proposed, and it concerns promises, and we will discuss the promises through the amendments that we have submitted as the DSS Parliamentary Group... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I would like to ask you Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have warned me exactly at the end of time. Mr. Vukovic, who spoke in front of the G17, had two minutes. You first warned him after four and a half minutes. You let him talk for two and a half minutes, and then you warned him, and then he talked for another minute. For three minutes, he spoke longer than the time of the G17 MP group. Do not share MPs in the first and second order. You have no right to give someone your personal decision to speak for two or three minutes, and to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure when they are members of the DSS. Then at least respect the Rules of Procedure in one case or another, so there will be no problem. I'll finish. The DSS cannot accept this draft budget. I had a lot to say, but unfortunately, I don't have time. I have submitted five amendments to this draft budget and I will have time to declare what is a general criticism and ideas regarding this budget to you as finance minister and also to the public of Serbia. The same will be done by other MPs from the DSS Group. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11173	Mr. Nikolic, you spoke two minutes longer. I first warned you when it was 30 seconds ago. You've fought successfully and you're a First Order MP. The word is Mrs. Gorica Mojovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11174	The Honorable Presidency, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, has already expressed a positive view of the structure, or as some have said the technical appearance of this document in the assembly procedure. I would like to join these positive assessments and present just a few reasons why I consider this document to be extremely well structured, and above all because at the very beginning we have one very detailed and clear overview of all the duties of the Republic of Serbia on various grounds, with the deadlines of maturity, with amounts. Then, given the structure of budget expenditure unitedly, clearly, you don't have to go from ministry to ministry, to add up certain positions and items, you have all that in one place. What seems very important to me is the financial plans of those programming ministries. Because it is best to see that the budget that individual ministries are planning is spent. I am sorry that there is no Ministry of Culture in these financial plans, because it seems to me that with this budget planned for 2009, the Ministry of Culture, Serbia's culture has a great chance of doing many of the things we are behind in 2009. Why would I think that? I'll talk, first of all, about the Ministry of Culture's budget. For culture, 6 billion 885 million dinars were planned in 2009. When we look at the figure in the rebalancing that was just recently spoken of, that's not a big difference, just about 8 million. In light of the fact that the 2009 budget does not have an economic position of 551 h. The national investment plan, which was rebalanced at 210 million and there are no 500 million for Eurosong this year, which the Serbian government has singled out for the event, simply next year will not be "Euroson". We will realize that the real nominal difference between the 2008 and 2009 budget is almost 800 million, or when 751 million dinars are recalculated exactly, because, as it should, in some positions and this very decent culture budget, I also suffered savings and that, I would say, is right in the right positions. The cultural budget consists of two parts. In one part are the cost of the ministry, of course, with all those positions that belong to the program and in the other part are cultural institutions. Where savings are, which is what usually applies to all other ministries, for example when it comes to the Ministry of Culture almost completely abolished position – rewards for employees and some special incomes. I think there's only about a thousand dinars left, I don't suppose that position is lifted. Travel costs, fixed costs, material costs remained at the level of 2008. So in those positions savings were achieved. And where is this 751 million dinar budget in 2009 going to be bigger than in 2008? And, of course, let's not forget, at some point, when it's done probably, first, second, some of the next rebalances, in the culture budget, there will be certainly funding from the National Investment Plan, which is now all in the Ministry of National Investment Plan. I have no doubt that certainly of the 12 billion planned for this ministry, one part of that funding, it seems to me, of course, that about 600 million dinars will be allocated to projects from culture. Certainly, the Ministry of National Investment Plan will not give up the projects launched in the field of culture, such as the reconstruction of the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary, the National Library, the Yugoslav Cinematheque, etc. When these funds arrive at the position of the Ministry of Culture, we will get a budget that, for the first time in a long time, the culture budget, will be passed over by the dreamers, desired by one percent of the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just go back briefly to where they are and how the funds that the Ministry of Culture has available for 2009. That difference of 751 million. One share of these funds, as envisaged in other areas, is foreseen for salary growth, in the area of culture of 8% of how much inflation is planned. I think even a little bit more, I guess they're planning maybe some petty employment. One part of the pair is scheduled to increase for cultural institutions in Vojvodina under that Omnibus law adopted in 2002. One hundred million dinars are projected more than in 2008 for economic classification 463, which means transfers to other levels of government, which means municipalities and cities in Serbia. We're coming up with a little problem. The majority of these funds amounted to 400 million were located at 424, which is the position of a specialised institution, are in fact programmes in culture, it is the position found in the Ministry's work and it should be the largest in all budgets so far, as projects are financed by competitions, filmmaking, purchase of books for Serbian libraries, purchase of works of fine art and applied art, protection of cultural goods, the complex of courts in Dedinj. Of course, a remarkable project launched this year is also funded, and this is a project to translate our literature into foreign languages. Perhaps it would be all right if in the same position 424 when it comes to cultural institutions, it is not only 328 million dinars, and it is 24 national institutions of culture and 14 institutions from Kosovo. If we bear in mind that most of the 24 institutions, in fact almost half, will go to the National Theatre and the Serbian Film Centre, then really very few funds remain for the National Library, for the Cinematheque, for the archive of Serbia, for the Museum of naive art in Jagodina, for the Old Village of Sirogyno, for the Gallery of the Mothers of Serbia in Novi Sad, etc. In that sense, I have prepared an amendment, I think you will support, that some of the funds from the ministry's position are transferred to national cultural institutions, so that they have reason in 2009 to feel that culture is available to one decent budget this year. I said a little while ago that 100 million were planned for the economic classification of 463 - other levels of government. This will be an opportunity to say several facts concerning the relationship between Belgrade and Serbia, or the budget of the city of Belgrade for culture and Serbia's culture budget. That's what I'm saying because over the past few years, while doing these jobs in Belgrade, I've often had the opportunity to hear that the Belgrade City Culture budget is twice as big as the Republic's, that all the money goes to Belgrade. From this pay phone, during the rebalancing debate, I heard that only more was given for one BEMUS than for the entire Serbian culture. What I'm about to say is, I'm not talking about the reason that I'm having sex with someone, I'm not talking about why I'm criticizing someone, I'm talking about simple and simple facts and figures. When it comes to 2008 for nine cultural institutions, I am only talking about culture, in the territory of Vojvodina, and according to the Omnibus Law, 803 million were planned; in 2009 – 858 million. For 14 KIM sites, of which, as far as I know, only two, possibly three, others mostly have employees and some of the activities, 230 million dinars are planned. For direct transfers to cultural institutions in Serbia, as I said, 401 and last year there were 300 million. In 2008, a total of 51 million and 500 000 dinars were received from the Republic's budget, i.e. the Ministry of Culture in 2008. Of that, 10 million for BEMUS. I would not now like to talk about the importance, not for Belgrade, but for the state of Serbia, such large cultural events, which, I believe, are not for the Belgrade citizens, but for the states of Serbia, because they have been admitted to the membership of Europe's most important cultural manifestations. Therefore, I would be happy to see that amount increase for Belgrade next year. It's all right. So, it's okay, and I expect the Ministry of Culture, with the budget it's going to have in 2009, just to make an effort, because, as I say, it's not the right time to argue with each other, and to accuse each other of taking someone's money. It is the turn to do everything in fact that Serbia has one more balanced regional development, that cultural institutions in each municipality, in every city of Serbia, reach the level of development that also has cultural institutions in Belgrade. I believe with a budget like this, which, believe me, I've been following culture for a long time, I don't think in the last 15 or twenty years, and when it comes to absolute amounts, and when it comes to percentages, it wasn't a better budget. It is precisely that the Ministry of Culture will use these funds to develop infrastructure and cultural production in Serbia's cities and municipalities, if for no other reason, I believe that I have given you some reason to vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11175	Thank you, Mrs Mojovic. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton. Your task force has ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11176	Dear MPs, respected ministers and respected presidency, we have ahead of us the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, where the revenues of 698 billion are planned and expenditures are 748 billion. So the projected budget deficit is 50 billion. The government says this budget is restrictive, but it does not say that it is the largest since 2000, now in the time of the global economic crisis. Each government draws up a budget according to its political commitment and election promises, that's fine. The problem of this budget is numerous election promises, I can say unreal, which were given by parties in power. The assembly consists of a large number of parties, whose programs are very different, election promises are very different, often the opposite. All ruling parties want to have their own ministries, agencies, vice-presidents of the government, and thus a vast government with a large ministry, the largest in the region, was created. Ministers do not function, as a team, in the interest of the state, but as a divided orchestra, where each minister plays his own song. Every party in power, every minister wants to show his political power through a budget split. Every minister is looking for money for himself, ignoring the state's priority. What is Serbia's priority? This question should be answered by the Prime Minister. If the ministers asked, they would respond that the priority of the state is precisely what their portfolio is and that they need the most money from the budget. This country also needs children, young, old, workers, pensioners, we need sport, as well as culture, science, infrastructure, agriculture, industry, police, military, government, entertainment, everything we need, but the money is not enough, it has dried up, there are fewer productions, foreign donations, less money than privatisation, less foreign investment in our country. We'll have to turn to ourselves and to our work. Now the Prime Minister should slap on the table and say, "Mrs. Minister, I don't give any more money, I don't give any more money, because I don't have any, the priority of our country is that and that's what it has to be for, and the rest of you ministers tighten the belt. What would happen after this? Then we would have replaced the Prime Minister. Thank you. (During the speech of MP Otto Kishmarton, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11177	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11178	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the adoption of the draft budget and the global financial crisis, we have heard more than once from the government's representatives that it is necessary to save at all levels. The prime minister stressed yesterday that it was a restrictive budget. Of course, it's a reasonable suggestion and should be supported. But exactly the government and the competent ministries don't apply it in practice. For example, when the figures from the 2008 budget and the 2009 draft budget are compared, such a conclusion is reached. According to the 2009 budget, the total expenditures are over 748 billion dinars. The 2008 budget envisioned expenditures of over 659 billion dinars. The difference between these two sums is over 52 billion dinars. According to the official NBS exchange rate since 19 December 2008, it is a sum of over 605m euros. Of course, the government will also present a counterargument. Budget revenues also increased from 2008 to around 650 billion dinars to 698 billion dinars. But when we compare this increase to the previous one, we come to a difference of 49m euros in favour of an increase in expenditure. So the budget is not restrictive, on the contrary, expenditure has been increased. Also, in her statement yesterday, the minister mentioned a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU, without giving a specific figure. I remind you, the budget statement lasted over 20 minutes. On the other hand, we believe that the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement is a very important topic, perhaps most important, when it comes to this draft budget. That is why it should not be avoided, especially in this Assembly, a team before publicly available data, and brought out by the respected Mrs Dragutinovic, in early December, the implementation of the Transition Agreement, will lead to a budget deficit of around 23 billion dinars. If so, and there is no reason not to trust this serious assessment since 7 December 2008, the implementation of the Transition Agreement will cost us around 267m euros. This is a huge amount greater than the total subsidies foreseen for agriculture. The purpose envisions around 212m euros. Also, the loss of one-sided application is almost incomparable with the amount foreseen for subsidies in the economy of around 35m euros. Also, the draft budget provides for subsidies in the tourism area for around 23m euros, with only about fivem euros for subsidies for culture. Therefore, the total subsidies intended for agriculture and the economy are less than the shortcomings which will result in the implementation of the Transitional Agreement. Those are facts, the rest are phrases. I believe that after such facts it is clear that there is no economic justification for unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. That it was only a political decision was confirmed publicly by a senior government official in his statement since 8.12.2008, when he noticed that the implementation of the Transition Agreement with the EU, I quote, "obviously Serbia is not worth it". Of course, we should welcome this honesty and ask the minister in this context whether the exact allegations published in our media, according to which Mrs Dragutinovic was also against the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. I think they are correct, and let me be denied because I believe that as a doctor of economic science and a lecturer at the Faculty of Economics knows what less than 260m euros in the budget is caused by political and ideological reasons when the economic crisis occurs in the world and in us, too, at a time when our industrial production records a decline in the first eight months of 1.7% compared to the same period in 2007. Otherwise, this data on industrial production was published on 21.12.2008 at the advice of economists, organised by the scientific Association of Economists and the Belgrade Faculty of Economics. On the other hand, the argument that consumers will buy cheaper goods does not answer the question of which funds our citizens will buy these products if our industry and agriculture fail. It is also clear that only domestic monopolies and large importers will benefit from the unilateral application of the Agreement with the EU. Basically, because of such a harmful economic policy, citizens will pay higher excise duties, taxes, the state will lay off employees, according to Zoran Popov, a scientific associate of the Belgrade Economic Institute, and the oligarchs will be increasingly richer. And it's a trend that is already present in our country and I'm going to give you a concrete example. As the last few years grew external debt and external trade deficit, Mr. Miroslav Miskovic increased his wealth from $600m to $2 billion and $400m according to data from Polish media. So, serious states like the Russian Federation are now taking over the actions of private monopolies, as announced by Mr Putin yesterday, and our country is helping monopolies to be even richer with this budget. That's why this budget is bad and unfair, because as the famous economist Galbright says, nothing hinders individual freedom as a lack of money. Finally, due to the current glorification of the IMF in our country, quoted by Jože Mecinger, the creator of the successful Slovenian economic programme, otherwise Mr Štiglic's views will be expressed by his colleague, Mecinger, says: "The important and happy environment was the fact that Slovenia was not immediately recognised by the World Bank and the IMF, which allowed the country to build an appropriate economic system and economic policy. '"Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11179	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. The word is Munir Poturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11180	The respected chairman, respected ministers, Mrs Dragutinovic and Mr Dulic, fellow MPs, many have supported this budget, many have challenged it, criticised what my role as MPs from Novi Pazar, from the area where six municipalities are gravitating in the border work towards Montenegro and Bosnia, to try to make sure that citizens in that part and in Serbia recognise what benefits they may have from the decisions of this budget. First of all, this budget has a social component. You know, we've made a decision that forgives all citizens' interest, businesses and entrepreneurs, and individuals and farmers, who regularly settle their obligations for the next two years. I would like both the written and electronic media to inform their citizens through the campaign that they can use it and that it is a good point and a good saving for all of us and for all the citizens in their personal budget. We also made a decision on the freezing of taxes or contributions to health insurance, with the possibility of write-off if these obligations are regularly met from 2009 to 2011 and that is a good basis, where citizens can receive savings in their budget, both legal persons and natural persons. Tax for cadastrian income for 2009 and 2010. It is released for 2009 and the citizens' savings tax. These are all elements in which the Government helps citizens to identify the situation so that they can easily get out of this situation. What the government is taking responsibly in terms of showing citizens and responsibility is to take measures and make decisions relating to the protection of citizens. This is where we passed the Law on the Protection of Savings of Citizens. Nearly 97% of citizens' savings are protected by a decision to increase insurance protection from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros. A moratorium on administrative employment has been introduced in all public enterprises. The fees for all employees on boards were reduced on average at the level of the Republic of Serbia, which is about 34-35 thousand dinars. It's even the urgency that management in public enterprises also reduces compensation and profits. In the area of incentives, certain steps have been made to separate three billion for active employment. 3.6 billion dinars appeared to be set aside for the material compensation of all the vulnerable Serbian people who have so-called. Unsecured persons status, Roma, displaced persons, refugees. What I want to pass on is that citizens can draw and use from all these decisions to open offices for balanced and regional development in Serbia in underdeveloped municipalities, to open offices for incentives and development and agriculture. I would like to make a few examples of good practice, not to boast, but simply to motivate some others who can, in their local administrations, budget and projected items, be the link and bridge to the funds provided for in the Republic budget. In Novi Pazar, a decision was made to form a 10m dinar Agricultural Fund. It's modest, but for the first time very significant, with the possibility that part of the funding from the Ministry of Agriculture should be directed towards this fund. It is for the first time that farmers in this area are given the opportunity to identify with their own resources, which have so far been invested, on the basis of the funds of local self-government and the third pillar of funding from the Ministry of Agriculture, a good basis to identify what is their priority, which is to be able to compete with their products and, most importantly, in the previous two years, we have had opportunities for our farmers to have very good support from the Ministry of Agriculture in terms of raising the level of knowledge and stimulation, to recognise what commercial land is for them, how to be competitive and how to have a quality product. The Eco Fund has also been formed with two and a half million as the basis for co-operation with the Union of textiles where more than 52% of total employees are employed. You know that textiles is a low-accumulated branch, you know that it is very vulnerable in this situation and the Union of Textiles initiative itself is that through the Memorandum of Municipal Administration, with the mayor, the common means and the local self-government and the Union of Textiles and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, they make it possible to provide funds as soon as possible to provide filters in the protection and processing of water used in these stones in the thermal treatment of jeans. I would like our citizens to understand that the initiative and self-initiative of the citizens themselves is necessary to overcome this situation together. It's clear to everyone that there will be problems. Another good example I wanted to make. In Novi Pazar, only 3% of the categorization is from the first, second and third at the primary level, so only 3%, the paved path. The shadow and Tutin have 2%. For parallel comparison, the first major city to Novi Pazar, the King has 24% of such roads. I'm not saying it's the consequence of these years, it's the consequences of years and decades. In the village of Zabren, a shadow municipality, about a year and a half ago, they raised 40,000 euros. I think there are hundreds of houses in that village. For some, 7 km also addressed local authorities in Sjenica and public enterprises. Until today, a challenge like that has not been answered, and believe me, I think there are more of those initiatives. I would like people to recognize that such initiatives are supported because it is necessary for us to encourage our citizens to show such an initiative, where people's unity in solving certain problems is encouraged and encouraged. Please help with the problem of FAP in Priboj, about the situation "Vojin Popović" and TK "Raška" in Novi Pazar, because they would be one wheel of momentum for the development of these municipalities. Not to forget, to point out that many municipalities inherited huge debts from the previous government. Novi Pazar inherited around 11m euros, a debt from the previous government. In order for anything to be done in the direction of development, towards directing good activities towards citizens, it is necessary to assist the ministries and states. I'd like you to know that another part of the funds can be put into this budget if you help solve the problem of Montenegro's tables once and for all. These six municipalities that are gravitating towards Montenegro and Bosnia, over 60% of the vehicles are certainly with Montenegrin plates – something that is related, something people felt as an opportunity to drive cheaper and easier, but if it were resolved the money would be in our budget, it would not go through Montenegro to register and send tables anyway. It's a good opportunity, because we're just wasting our bushes and ruining it, and the money's ours. It was all I said, but it is necessary to note that three prestigious prizes arrived in the New Market because people were human. Mr. Jasmin Duštinac received the award for humanity in 2008, in the action "News", Mrs. Sladjana Novosel received the award as a person of the year in 2008 in the media, from the OSCE and Mr. Muhamed Gjerlek received the Golden Prize "Pierre" for 2008. I mentioned this that we all have a chance, whether it's Bosniaks, Serbs, Albanians or anyone, if it shows a personal initiative and intends to live better in this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11181	Thank you, Mr. Poturak. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic. You've got seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11182	Dear Presidents, respected Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, I will look back at the level and structure of the 2009 budget in the time left for the Serbian Progressive Party, and after a series of remarks on the 2009 draft budget. Of course, we as a parliamentary group will, after this principle debate on the amendments we have tabled and under some other amendments, discuss the bulky side of the budget and all the amendments submitted. We'll try that. Let's make the 2009 draft budget even better. What we can say is that we could agree on the principle of continuity, and for this reason about amendments and discussions on them, we have not submitted a bunch of amendments as individual parliamentary groups, but we cannot agree with the principle of so-called. political unity. In Serbia, not only are members of the ruling coalition and the Assembly made up members of all the parties that are here. That is why I hope, by our debate, that we will now and in future make the economic crisis, which has been in place since the fourth quarter of 2008, and will likely be present more and more strongly in 2009, through a variety of measures and activities, to make life easier for Serbian citizens. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party is proposing to the government's representatives, Prime Minister, that at least once quarterly, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there be one session at which all ministers, together with the prime minister, will attend and respect all the measures and opinions that we members of other parties, not only of the ruling coalition, propose to make all these measures even more qualitative, i.e. to make the lives of Serbian citizens even better with a series of measures and activities. Before I move to the level and structure of budgeting in 2009, I can't help but look at two things. It's an analysis that's 2001. years, so-called the goods sector – production of electricity, processing of oil derivatives, processing industry and other areas, in the total gross social product participated with 55%, and so on. The neural sector participated with about 45%. Because of the citizens of Serbia and the viewers following these sessions, I point out that so-called the nerobial sector is – traffic, health, state administration, education, hospitality, trade and similar activities. Unfortunately, the situation is completely different now. This is what I'm saying, and it's about comparison to the 2009 budget proposal and the budget structure. Now the situation in this relationship, related to the goods sector is below 40%, and so on. The neural sector is over 60%. It's not just that, but the problem is that the number of employees in the so-called so-called workers has dropped dramatically. The goods sector. In 1998, it was about 900 hundred thousand, in order to be about 600 hundred thousand in 2008. We must say, and we must not forget the fact that the next days and months are followed by the liquidation of about 500 other social enterprises, so the number of employees in so-called. The goods sector will be another 200 grand smaller. If in all this we also have the knowledge that the unilateral application of the SAA will provide the possibility and announced possibility for companies to flood Serbia's market with a large quantity of goods, the cheapest goods of broad consumption, it can be expected that in this sector there will be another 100,000 less employees, unfortunately, we arrive at the figure in 2009. to the goods sector at about 300,000 employees. Still related to this comparison, I can't help but say not to look back at the agriculture that took part in the gross social product in 2001 with 22.37%, and now at the beginning of 2008, that percentage is below 10%. At the level of receiving the 2009 budget of the planned 700 billion dinars, 640 billion dinars, or in the structure 92% belongs to tax revenues and to non-tax revenues around 8%. Also, I have to look at the citizens and say that, when I say, the growth index that crosses 100% means that growth is projected, and for the growth index below 100% predicts a decline in this area, and to say that the tax revenues for 2009 are classified by structure and ranked in the following way: there is a VAT 48.5%, and the expected index of 110%, the excises are 16.7%, and the growth index over 114%, the income tax is 11.6%, and the growth index is 107% and customs is 7.3%, here also, the decline, meaning 72.3%, the corporate tax is 6.3%, i.e. Growth index 123%. All the government's proposals and plans for 2009 would not have been controversial, if we hadn't forgotten the fact that I had pointed out earlier, which is - the economic crisis, the unilateral application of the SAA, the destruction of the goods sector... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... announced drop in investment, i.e. There are no investments, foreign investments in 2009, which will lead to the likely waiting for citizens of Serbia in 2009: an increase in VAT rates, a likely increase in excise duties, and as far as excise duties are concerned, citizens know that this is goods for the most massive consumption, and possibly the freezing of wages. I must, or cannot ask you – is the planned inflation projection of 8% real for 2009. A year?- I'm sorry. (During the speech of MP Mica Rogovic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11183	I thank Mr. Rogovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, its 2009 budget statement, the finance minister started with an explanation, or an apology -- that the government of the Republic of Serbia apologized to Serbian MPs and citizens, which was in violation of the Law on the Budget System and that this law on the 2009 budget entered into the assembly procedure with more than a month of delay. It would be nice, Mrs Dragutinovic, if the citizens of Serbia could be in a situation where the government is, so when there is no fiscal obligation towards the state, they say -- sorry, we broke the law, and nothing happens to them. Unfortunately, because of citizens, if they break any law of financial nature and do not settle their obligations to the state, they have no one to apologize to and no one can hear their apologies – they will suffer sanctions. The political system in this country is such that, here is the Serbian government – from the fact that it has broken the Budget System Act, by breaking the 2009 budget proposal by more than a month, that the government will not do anything ugly, but by means of public information, from day to day, we hear the lamentation of representatives of the ruling coalition in Serbia that, my God, the opposition that is guilty of Serbia's government, instead of the November 1st draft of the 2009 budget law was delivered only in early December of this year. You, Madam Minister and Prime Minister Cvetkovic, have made one finding here – that the 2009 budget is thrifty, that the government has taken all the necessary measures not to spend excessive financial resources and behave in line with the economic opportunities in the country, which are dictated by the global economic financial crisis. Then, when a man listens to you like this, superficially, and when this budget is read superficially, then you can get the impression that you're right, but if you approach this problem a little more studioly and when the budget is read with a pen in your hand, then unfortunately, the figures show something quite different. More than once, the SRS has pointed out to you the fact that tightening the belt, peopleally speaking, should mean for the state above all – reducing the state administration, in a personal sense and in an organisational sense, in terms of reducing the number of authorities, i.e. institutions of the state administration, or anything that is broadly understood under public administration. However, from the 2009 Budget proposal, we could not find an absolute single provision that speaks in this regard. On the contrary, all those ministries, all those management bodies, all the special organisations and finally all those unfortunate agencies that have been formed over the past years remain in the 2009 budget proposal – alive and healthy. You have not abolished anything, and not only have you not abolished it, but for the state administration, that is, for the state administration in certain parts, you have provided far greater resources, but that was the case in 2008. For example, in 2008, the cabinet of the Prime Minister spent, and for him, 53 million 550,000 dinars were foreseen. In 2009, 61 million were scheduled. 578 grand. The cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister in 2008, 17 million 430 thousand, and 71 million 960 thousand dinars were planned in 2009, the index of growth even 412 million. Government Vice-President's Office for Industrial Development in 2008 29 million 581 thousand dinars, in 2009 as much as 59 million 795 thousand dinars, index of growth 202. Government General Secretariat in 2008 336 million 088 thousand dinars, in 2009 376 million 667 thousand, index of growth 112. Government Air Service in 2008 172 million 820 thousand, in 2009 envisioned 231 million 002 thousand dinars, a growth index 133. It's a similar situation when it comes to these famous agencies that you've formed with your hat and hand since 2001. For example, the Agency for Energy Efficiency in 2008 17 million 269 thousand dinars, in 2009 21 million 235 thousand dinars, index of growth 123, etc. What concerns is the fact that you provided less funds for the work of the judiciary than in 2008. In 2008, 2 billion 707 million 061,000 dinars were foreseen for the work of the judicial authorities, and in 2009, 1 billion 701 million 836 thousand dinars. This is really strange, given the fact that during 2009, some new judicial authorities are due to start working that you have provided for a set of judicial laws. It's really strange how you think that this judiciary is on its feet when you left him much less funds in 2009 than it was in 2008. Since I'm running out of time, Madam Minister, just to let you know of one very important thing. A few days ago, the minister of trade at the so-called The government of the Republic of Kosovo, a certain Ljufti Zarku, said the government of the Republic of Kosovo would prevent imports of goods from Serbia?- I'm sorry. It is indicative that the statement came just days after the arrival and deployment of the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija. So much for how long it's a mission of rule of law and how neutral that mission is!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11185	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic, and the next is Mr. Dragan Stevanovic. You've got 33 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the 2009 Bill on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, to the greatest extent paints the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- unprincipled, closely composed, restrictively developed, will crack on the seams at the time of the first major test, and I am sure it will be too much. Given the fact that Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet kept the economic policy management profile introduced after the five-eyed revolution, I would like to focus my discussion on three important aspects. First, an analysis of the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2000 to now shows unequivocally that in the area of foreign borrowing, negative trends have emerged, above all, in an enormous increase in the absolute amount of external debt and in increasing the country's debt rate. This means that in the coming period, the states could actually fall into a serious debt crisis that, in the future with the effects of the global financial crisis, for which we have not yet established whether it is welcome or not, since we are waiting for Dinkic and Djelic's final opinion, could have extremely negative effects on Serbia's economy. The rate of one country's debt is measured on the basis of various indicators by comparing the total debt, anuities and interest on the one hand and the annual social product, monetary reserves, total exports and current foreign exchange inflow, on the other. The most frequently measured duty is when placed in relation to external debt annuities according to the current foreign exchange inflow. The country's debt indicator can be the ratio of the structure of foreign assets and social products, the participation of foreign funds in total investments, the accumulated flow of foreign investments in the social product. As measured by most indicators, Serbia is an overindebted country. For example, according to the quantitative ratio of external debt and gross domestic product, the rate of duty ranges between 60 and 70 %, while the level of duty is measured by the quantitative ratio of debt and exports to the previous year was 2.28 times in favour of debt, which is above the limit for high-indebted countries, according to the World Bank criterion. The volume and dynamics of foreign resources in Serbia since 2000 can be seen through a accumulated surplus of financial transactions and an increase in net external debt. Serbia's foreign debt in 2006 is expressed in dollars by 81% rather than in 2000 and expressed in euro by 28%. The internal debt in 2007 increased by 142% compared to 2000 and expressed in euro by 53%. The inflow of accumulation from foreign sources is absorbed through the balance of payments deficits. A high accumulated surplus of financial transactions in Serbia, in the already mentioned period of Dossov's government, is due directly to the increase in the use of medium- and long-term foreign loans and somewhat foreign direct investment. The import of capital allowed Serbia to temporarily finance the current balance deficit, but soon comes the time when a foreign exchange inflow to pay off the debt will have to be secured. Serbia's internal debt increased from $10 billion to $830m in 2000 to 26 billion. $236m in 2007, while Serbia's total foreign debt on 31 August 2008 is $28 billion, 928m, equivalent to 19 billion 600m euros. This is certainly not a flat rate, but official data that can be obtained, among other things, on the NBS site. The graph of Serbia's foreign debt movement is inexorably precise, just like the fact that the prime minister, former finance minister, former director of the Privatisation Agency, and now and then the same governor of the National Bank, that economy ministers and vice-presidents of the government were just rotating chairs, etc. Under the conditions of high duty, when the time comes for payment of debts to the economy becomes too much of a burden to deliver goods or services to abroad during a longer period of time to pay off debts – in such a situation spending is reduced, employee earnings are reduced, raw materials are exhausted. It can take a few years, and when it crosses a certain line, then the economy dies down and the resources from which the debts are paid are reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have, unfortunately, irrevocably pointed to Serbia at the end of 2008. All of this information was presented by me, wanting to remind the public that more or less the same team of people at this time with Diana Dragutinovic, as current finance minister, offered the Serbian Parliament the adoption of a budget that was set at the beginning, with a huge number of amendments, with the intention of supporting numerous gaps and removing numerous observed anomalies. At the very threshold of New Year's and Christmas holidays, without respecting the legal deadline, in a dilemma whether to use the global economic crisis as a cover for their inability and irresponsibility, for citizens, like Santa Claus, to pack a new package that, instead of their hands, will get or feel on their backs, the government agreed on the budget and the IMF. We should all be overjoyed now because it will be a new momentum in European integration. Let's make a joke. The top lecture was the famous US economist and Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglic, who, just a few days ago, made it clear and loud in the middle of Belgrade that Serbia's agreement with the IMF did not contribute to stabilising the entire economy at all. From the IMF, Serbia had little use, the former Serbian government's honorary adviser said, on the issue of economic strategy and added that due to the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, Serbia has, however, access to funds, but under limited conditions with interest rates that are high and even more difficult for domestic economies – that is what he said, wondering whether you are or not. I'm done. What do the citizens of Serbia think now? On the one hand, you have an argument from the government that was late with the draft budget for harmonising with the IMF, and when it was successfully brought to an end, and when we all looked forward to it, it was as if we'd signed up for worthless, sorry, free action, then as a cold shower, there comes the thinking of a John Squiggle. It should not be surprising that in the economic barometer carried out these days, 52.36% of Serbian citizens assessed the state as bad, while 58.5% of those who expect the situation to be worse in the coming period. I'm sure it'll be better 100% if this is the last draft budget to be submitted by a government like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11187	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Next up is Mr. Milorad Kristin. You've got something less than 26 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday Mr. Cvetkovic from this pay phone said this should be the most important law for this country and for the next year. I believe, Mrs Dragutinović, that you share your opinion with him, but when you take into account the fact that this law in the government has been adopted in the atmosphere, where the two vice-presidents of the government have convinced themselves who is more responsible for the poor 2009 budget, Krkobic for pensions and Mladjan Dinkic because of the unilateral application of the SAA, when you add to all this to the atmosphere in which this budget is to be adopted, the number of amendments, you must agree with the next fact, i.e. the conclusion, I think that this budget, as it is written, will in any case not instill trust and security in the citizens, first of all, and then with any MPs that we are to discuss or to deal with this budget. Given that we are limited in time, I hope that in the context of the debate in particular, if we get to it, Madam Minister, we will have the opportunity to tell you, too, what we think. I would only deal with, not through figures, but through your approach that you have defined in this budget in some way, even regional development. In this budget, it is defined that the least funds belong, above all, to agriculture, to science, and, unfortunately, there is Mr. Minister, the portfolio of spatial planning and environmental protection. As far as agriculture is concerned, it should be our export branch, the bearer of development. As far as science is concerned, it should provide and qualify human resources, which in perspective will provide human capacity for changes in this country, which are objectively needed. On the third hand, why do I mention the spatial planning and protection of the environment, Madam Minister, in the crisis that you have sent to our budget, you have said that equal regional development is defined on two pillars: on the one hand is a strategy of balanced regional development, and on the other hand is the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia. There is a minister, let him say when was the last time a spatial plan for the state of Serbia was adopted. That was 1996. I think I'm right, Mr. Minister. , I think there have been some announcements and attempts to modify this plan, i.e. to emulate opportunities that are objectively in force today. Of course, there was no understanding of such a thing, but it was not the most slow, the worst fact in the whole story that was adopted in 1996. He's been adopted for 20 years. I mentioned that once from this pay phone. The problem is that it is completely anachron, in relation to the current needs of the Republic of Serbia, of equal regional development in Serbia, without talking about the challenges that will come before us in economic terms and in terms of equal regional development in the coming year and in all the years to come. Of course, I don't want to analyze the situation in the municipalities. Mr. Minister certainly knows that, but the only thing that can be qualified for some positive assessment is the situation in Vojvodina. Vojvodina certainly does not use this, to be a locomotive of Serbia's even development, but to create state-of-the-art acts, what the Statute of Vojvodina is, and that in the time ahead it opens up some new problems, but on the side of that. If the state were to find itself responsible for this area and you financially support it, Madam Minister, Mr. Markovic would not be asking the question today – why is there no planned documentation in Bujanovac? Mr. Markovic wouldn't ask – why don't you have an industrial zone? Why is the investment climate in Bujanovac and Presevo bad? These are the causes, because we do not have strategic, planning documentation, and for you who have a mouthful of Europe, do nothing to change the strategic-plank concept picture and the appearance of the Serbian state in one affirmative and positive direction and sense. Madam Minister, I hope we can come to a debate in particular, that we will have time to talk and oppose the arguments. I'm gonna finish this story with one parallel. What we do today when it comes to budgets, do you know what it's like? It's like watching a car go downhill. When cars go downhill and it's quite clear they're going to break up, it's deplaced to talk about gravity. We need to talk about who put the car on top of the hill. Personally, I think that the budget is completely missed and that what you promise the people will not be as you wish to present it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11189	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Minister, Mr. Dulic wants a word. Inspired, probably, by your question of the Space Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11190	People's MP, thank you for opening this topic and I'd like to give you an answer. First, it is important to discuss the lack of planned documentation in Serbia. No, unfortunately, she's not. In a large number of municipalities it does not exist, it is not made. In this year, the ministry allocated 110 million to finance the planning documentation. We signed contracts in November, 46 municipalities, which need to develop either spatial plans or different types of planning documentation according to the missing hierarchy. 200 million are planned for the next year in the budget. Someone would say "just" 200 million. It certainly won't be enough to complete Serbia as far as the planning documentation is concerned, but at this point it's the only possible solution, given that the entire budget for the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning was, of course, more modest than what we wanted, but that can be told to you by each ministry individually. It just wasn't money anymore. What is important to say is that the government of the Republic of Serbia at the last session finally adopted the Decision to launch a strategy of a spatial plan, i.e. a band of the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which is an old name for the new constitutional category, and it is called the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia. We've started making a spatial plan. It'll take some time. The spatial plan is, in fact, one set of all development strategies developed by different ministries. He'll be done. Also, according to some new future law, and the public debate began last week, on a new law on planning and construction, members of the Building and Urbanism Committee received the first draft of the law. We will literally restore the old name of the spatial plan and define the obligations of the municipalities that within 18 months they have to make two things. One thing is the spatial plan of the municipality and another thing is the urban plan of the settlement, which should contain enough detail, so that all necessary documents, necessary for a building permit, can be issued. So that's what our intentions are. We're planning to just finance the construction of these two planning documents in those municipalities that don't have enough resources to get them to be obliged to make it. So far, the argument is why no planned documentation has been made at the local level – we have no funds. This time we wanted to be correct and to say – if you do not have the funds, the state will give you the funds, but you have a legal obligation to complete the production of these documents and give one real period of 18 months, because in Serbia, thank God, there are enough professional people who can help municipalities to produce that documentation. Anyway, thank you for opening this question. This is very important. I think we're all going to have to take care of him together, because regardless of where the municipality came from and who was in power, I think the issue of lack of planning documentation is one of the biggest problems and the biggest reasons why Serbia is very uncompetitive about the speed of issuing building permits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11191	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the 2009 Budget Act. We have an economic crisis ahead of us in 2009, but as far as I can tell, the agrarian has been handling this crisis for seven full years. For eight years, thanks to your "yellow" companies and your coalition partners, starting with a five-octobar revolution, you set up such ministers who have no vision in front of them how simply to create Serbia as the strongest regional exporter of food and the most stable agricultural policy towards these peasants, who are not humiliated even during the sanctions, when we had them in our own time. Here, you can already see from this 2008 budget, where the budget for the division of 14 for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management 27 billion and 700 million dinars, that I'm not speaking now, because of a little time basically, the figures are small, and in 2009, about 20 billion and 500 million, which is clearly what you've put seven billion less for this division 14. This means that you have reduced the subsidies for agriculture by 5 billion dinars, and you are putting this fallen branch that still resists all economic crises, in an even worse situation. If you don't have a long-term policy towards agrarian, it shows the fact that, for example, in 2007, a farmer after taking off crops, I mean wheat, takes over, i.e. He sells 11.5 and 12 dinar wheat to sell the same 24 dinar wheat at the beginning of 2008, it seems that the tycoons appear to be the ones who run the agricultural policy. If they mention the corn that last year was 18 dinars or 1,800 dinars per 100 kilograms, this year momentarily on the stock market, today I called myself, moving about 7.5 dinars or 750 dinars 100 kilograms, it is another indicator that every year the peasant does not know how to define which culture to sow. If we're talking about carnivores, cattle, you can feel free to be ashamed last year, the peasant, in fact, the farmer, has a farm and is engaged in one of the larger production of cattle, sold for a time from 55 dinars to 80 dinars, and this year he reached the price and 170 kilograms of live cattle. If we're talking about milk and dairy, I don't think we should be very wise about it, but you really don't have that vision of how to improve them, too. We hear that manufacturers, those who don't produce but only the right final products, will lower the milk price slightly lower, milk products the same, but that's why those who produce milk and its price will go down and I don't know how much longer they'll have the opportunity to withstand the difficulties they've suppressed. As far as this autumn sowing is concerned, we are witnessing that the fertilizer has gone 100% up, the peasant doesn't know any more culture to sow: or the one that will currently be sown in this fall after the removal of summer cultures or move on to that spring, sunflower and corn. You also have a poor assessment and a bad policy that you made thanks to then Minister of Agriculture in 2004, 2005 and 2006, Ivani Dulic-Marković, in the Law on the Hire of Agricultural Land, which was continued by Slobodan Milosavljevic, as Minister of Agriculture, which is called the "Palska Mafia or the Agrarian Mafia". We are witnesses, and unfortunately for this minute, I have prepared those in the 'Yellow' purse, with 15 kilos of paper, to show you how you are still destroying what is left and for you what can be destroyed, which is the lease of state agricultural land. A concrete example, I come from the Zrenjanin municipality, where 635 million dinars were to be charged in 2007, however, no dinar was paid, and as for 2008, instead of 635 million dinars, only 62 million were paid, which means that around 240 million municipalities in 2007 did not raise or put into their budget, and 380 million or 30%, i.e. 50%, 190 million, and again to 190 million dinars -- the Republic, and only one municipality. I'm sorry I can't get involved in the 2009 budget discussion anymore, but I'll say when we discuss the amendments, each amendment carries 15 minutes, and then I'll show the documentation about the malversion of agricultural land leases, thanks to your ministers, to the ministers you've put in your government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11193	Thank you, Mr. Christin. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Obradovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Dulic has initiated this announcement as well. We welcome the idea of a new spatial plan. But what's a fundamental question at this point is to what extent is the previous Space Plan realized. One of the people who deals with spatial planning said if you don't have a plan then you certainly won't realize it, but if you have a plan, there's a great chance that you won't realize it. What's the problem with our plans and strategies is that most often or very difficult to negotiate on starting assumptions, and these are the main objections to the budget that we have. There are no single items that matter, the initial assumptions that affect the implementation of the plan are important. What are the initial assumptions for the realization of a spatial plan or any strategy? That's one question. The second question is, what? When is one such document done? We are now discussing the 2009 budget. As far as I know in Serbia at this time, 30 strategies are being adopted by the government, which the Parliament has adopted. Is there or what it is and does it even matter, even though it does, what is the connection between these strategies to Serbia's budget, as a basic instrument of policymaking? What are strategies related to individual laws and does anyone read these strategies? Most of the time, these strategies are brought in, they're standing in some closets, collecting dust, and absolutely no one takes into account what these documents say. The serious problem with the spatial plan is that we are at a time of economic crisis and are the basic instruments for implementing this plan and all these urban plans of finance, and if you have no information on how you will use these funds, then you cannot even implement it in practice. The minister of trade announced a new strategy for the development of trade in Serbia both these days and yesterday. The main question is what we do with existing documents and what are the input parameters for the realisation of these documents. When we answer these questions, it will be very easy for us to work on strategies and various other plans.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11195	Thank you. Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11196	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, Mr Dulic inspired me, and I would also refer to what Mr Obradovic said. You're talking about strategy. This country had an energy strategy done, so your government, past every resonance, and I'd grab my head, step on that energy strategy and sell NIS by 51%. We just saw on one television diary the original contract document signed when it comes to the sale of NIS. All of what you said, Mr. Dulic, and especially the chief of the negotiating team, and especially those who praised the agreement after the final agreement with the Russians two days ago, now called "the roof", politically, etc., but the essence of the contract on the sale of NIS, therefore, everything we've been listening to for the past two days is obviously not true. The Russians will not invest 500m euros, as we were convinced yesterday and the day before, but the NIS will have to take the loan. We assume that Gazprom will put a mortgage on NIS, i.e. facilities, buildings, etc. Simply, what you were talking about, fellow radical party colleagues, I'd like to believe, but how can I believe when one day we hear one thing, and after that we see documents that speak differently. One more thing to tell you, Madam President, tomorrow is the day President Tadic goes with several other associates to Moscow to sign the contract. Believe me, tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm afraid we'll talk a lot about what's going on in Moscow tomorrow, which is why and how the NIS is being sold. We asked the government to await the Constitutional Court's decision. So, not a single word from the government came up on that question. The Constitutional Court sent, we remember how it was formed here, five proposed by the president, five Assemblys, or most of them, to the Assembly, the Legislative Committee, to declare whether the international agreement signed by Serbia is subject to the assessment of constitutionality. I don't think that's very serious. I think it's a huge responsibility for the government to agree to pressure, or probably because of that promise, which we talked about, which was given to the Russians, which is why it has to sell NIS, 51% is stronger than Serbia's interest. Madam President, we've been given 45 days by the Constitutional Court to give the Legislative Committee a statement. Please take care of that, too. This is no small matter, it is a responsibility to all those who sign, but also to those who deceive the public. About the details of that contract, and certainly it will be printed soon, so we'll be able to make a much better insight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11197	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. There's only 14 minutes left of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have living proof that the ruling majority MPs coming out here are mostly talking about parts of the budget and representatives of their minister, more specifically the minister from which the parties are coming and whose minister is headed by some ministry. We have a situation where every brick of its horse boasts, in a certain way. So one is on paper, the other is in practice. But what the MPs of the ruling majority say doesn't fit in with what's going on in real life. So here we had a special story about the economy. We know that the economy is the most underdeveloped branch and the most damaged branch when it comes to functioning in the state of Serbia and when it comes to the worst disease that chokes the economy, which is crime and corruption. So here we talk about subsidies, enterprises – private and public, credit support programmes, soft loans, hard loans, then we have greenfield investments, start-up loans, cluster development programmes from 2007 to 2013, etc. But when we take all these circumstances and the parts and the money that is set for it, we come to one conclusion, which is written in this draft budget, which is that we need to complete the privatisation. Now we come into a situation where we invest in a company that will be sold for a living, which will be sold, as the cement store, Sartid, as you sell all those companies worth ten times the price of the sale. We ask each other here, why invest in such companies, if there is no 'vide, if you apply the Agreement unilaterally, if you're going to kill competition, if you're going to let the product fail, if you don't let the product survive, etc.?- I'm sorry. What I was about to say was for the Ministry of Regional Development that 220 million were allocated to employees' salaries, and that 200 million, so 20 million less, were allocated to services per contract. These are our obligations to the Fiat we've taken over, i.e. who took over this ministry. What it means is that two salaries in 2009 can only be paid by employees in this ministry because of the completion and respect of the contracts we have under "Fiat". Also, I would like to mention the economic classification of 422, travel costs – 10 million dinars, or 116 thousand euros. When you divide it into 12 months, it comes out slightly less than 10,000 euros a month, only on trips. That's the saving! It's a belt tightening, lights out, water heater shut down when showering isn't planned, etc. So, one simple example of a ministry that says that it is satisfied with the division of the budget for its own benefit and for the benefit of its own interest, it also tells the distribution of money to the cities that you have set out by this draft budget. I will only list some examples that are obvious, and the citizens themselves will conclude who is in these cities in power. It is said this: 720 million were allocated to the municipality of Subotica; for the municipality of Užice – 388 million; for Cačak – 540 million; for Sabac – 506 million; for Kraljevo – 607 million; for Kruševac – 544 million; for Leskovac – 690 million. What is the reason and priority for Subotica to get this much money from other cities? It will be concluded by the citizens themselves. We're going to ask more questions in the discussion in particular, it's not the point now. I'm just saying that the way you behave on a legislative body in the Republic Assembly, that's how you behave in local congregations. Also today in the Belgrade City Assembly, one municipality with 55,000 inhabitants -- the Old Town, received four times more money than the Zemun municipality, which has many, many, many more inhabitants. It only speaks of once, when we have divided these pairs and distributed to party friends in order to survive both government and power and to prepare the field for the elections you can plan, I would point out the following thing – if we take into account the privatisation we need to complete and the giants that still exist and are not destroyed, and you plan to destroy them, you can only see, let's say, the decline in the value of the actions "Lasta". You can see the value of our tractor from Rakovica now and also five years ago. You can also see your plan for these factories and these companies or businessmen, whatever you want, in the next period. You say here in one part of what loans are used for, it says, "It increases the level of economic activity, speeds up the privatisation process, providing a higher level of income for the Republic's budget". How are we going to ensure a higher level of income from the Republic of Serbia if we kill our manufacturer if we kill our product? It is then said: "Credits and subsidies under favourable conditions would ensure the continuity of growth in industrial production and exports". Industrial production, especially electricity, needs to be discussed and quite well. When we consider how much electricity we export, and how much we pay as citizens who produce, what happens to us, what is the price of that same energy in the environment, we will come to a variety of conclusions. Then he says, "The 2009 cluster development programme relies on the experience and results of the programme to encourage cluster development in 2007, 2008 and part of the multi-annual programme." These multi-year programmes that don't produce fruit cost us much, and the results don't give us any results. Then he says, concerning this contract, the commitments under "Fiitat" which are the main item concerning this ministry: "The contract provides for funds from the Serbian government, infrastructure projects to build the Kragujevac highway – Batocina highway, the modernisation of railways, the construction of a bypass, the modernisation and rehabilitation of electricity and gas plants, waste water treatment plants, etc." - one of the conditions that we give to others to be our bosses, how we give to destroy our own, and then we'll easily talk about keeping our jobs, opening jobs. I ask you how we're going to open jobs when a big dealer or a retailer closes small ones and brings his people to the side, as is an example in Krnjaca, when you enter "Pevec" there has 99% of the people employed from the Croatian state, one percent of the Serbs there and it's mostly those who deal with hygiene or physicalisation, loading and unloading of goods. So, don't deceive the citizens that this budget is good for them, this budget is good for you and that's why it was made, which is why you were late with the draft of this budget, you couldn't agree. And, evidence that you are all individually satisfied is the release of MPs to advertise that ministry from whose party the minister is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11199	Thank you, Mr. Avramovic. The word is from the MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11200	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, when we talk about the culture budget, there's nothing in principle that's questionable. For culture, those funds were allocated as much as they could in this situation where the country is, as much – as it is. It was never a problem how much the cultural resources were allocated. Of course, we'd like to separate a lot more for culture, but somehow in recent years, it's always been a problem in which these funds are allocated. So, as well as to whom the funds are allocated for culture, whether it's film, theatre performances, according to certain theatres, according to any other kind of culture. The culture budget reads and clearly states what the funds are for. We have a fine explanation where money should go, and if we look at it, we'd say it's fantastic, it's all well organized, if it's respected, if that's how it works, we won't have any problems in culture, we'll be able to do all the projects we thought of in 2009. But it turns out that's not the case. We're talking about cultural heritage, the preservation of cultural heritage, that's what one sentence stands for. First of all, I can't believe we're trying to preserve cultural heritage. One of the reasons is that the past culture minister did not give himself the Kosovo and Precosian cycles, paving out the mockery of the Kraljevića Marka. That's what I was talking about. We have Nusic, also, who is completely wrongly placed, Nusic, who throws out a traditional Serbian family. Now that I'm talking about Nusic, I'm also going to say that Slavija is a theatre, the theatre was visiting Austria two weeks ago, in Vienna, our ambassador did not do well to come and greet the Serb ensemble who was visiting and who in some way organized a pedestal for our people there. It is inadmissible, and we want to go to Europe, we want to act by European standards, and in some ways we are making a big deal out of ourselves, demeaning some of our writers and favouring some who are glorifying in Europe and all that is European and all that is the ruling coalition. This is a tried-out way of channelling funds towards people loyal to the ruling coalition and forming certain commissions that are allegedly dealing with the allocation of funds for certain projects. In the last term, I was talking about these famous pensions that are intended for the deserved artists, a commission of several actors was formed, and according to some discretionary law, completely without criteria, handling some general criteria, pensions were allocated. I'm not saying, many pensions, and more pensions are possible, they're assigned to the right people. However, you have sinned against many people who have worked in culture for years, earned those pensions, and today they want to commit suicide as we had opportunities in "Kurir" to read how a man committed suicide due to unpaid electricity because they have nothing to live on, they don't have to pay for a single hotel. I would ask the Ministry of Culture for at least the second time in such cases to work on clearly defined criteria and not to disabling and neglecting some well-deserved artists and others to favour only because they belong to the ruling coalition. I'm interested in what, say, the Museum of History of Yugoslavia. There, as far as we know, they were drilling the statue of Osiris to see if it was gold. What about the Museum of Contemporary Art? So many artistic images of invaluable value have disappeared. So, are we going to do this a little bit to preserve our cultural heritage? This isn't just happening in the theater, it's happening in the music field. For some concerts, the Ministry wants to be a sponsor, for some concerts that are in the interest of the Serbian people and culture will not be a patron again, according to some estimates of what they like, what they don't like. Let's agree once, let's see what these are criteria that can go through, what is meant by cultural heritage, and let's respect it. In theatres, people are employed by nepotism, whether it's on a cousin's side or by a friend of someone's wife, so that many people camp in theaters, receive wages and do not work, and people are brought in from the same theatres and are paid by contracts. I don't know what it's all about. We have a very messy situation in culture and where we have to and where we can and what we should do that is that everything that is done clearly determines criteria, so artists would feel much more dignified and absolutely not have to go down below their level and we wouldn't have to watch young actors who are running entertainment shows today, never go out on stage, never have played any movie just because there's an acting lobby where absolutely one and the same team of directors, screenwriters, actors and performs a bar in this town, in Belgrade, which is familiar with me. So you really should get in the way of it. We're doing hyperproduction and actors and painters, we've got private academys. It's a bear service. These people get out of college educated, they have nowhere to work, and we spin all those same actors. I'm not saying they're bad actors, I'm not saying they're bad directors, they're bad writers, they're bad dramatists, but you'll let them not be the only ones in Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11201	Thank you, Mrs. Vukicevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Art. 225th and 226th, and I ask the interior minister to find out the motives of the attack on the President of the Sports Council and the youth of the Cukarica Municipal Committee, which took place 10 minutes ago. So, one criminal, so far we don't know his name or name, beat up our president of the Sports Council and the youth of the Chukarica municipal board, outside our rooms, on Požega Street. The motives are not yet known. It is Novakovic Vladimir, who is currently being admitted to the Emergency Centre. I insist that the Minister of the Interior in urgent light on this case, because the motives of the attack force us to defend ourselves and when we're not attacked, and God forbid we defend ourselves, maybe someone who may not get hurt. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11203	Thank you. Your question will be forwarded to the Minister of the Interior. Since the list of parliamentary groups has no longer been declared for the word, before I conclude the search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? The word is by Mr Milan J. Nikolic, representative of the SPS Group of MPs - Unique Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11204	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, differing opinions on the 2009 budget concept have been expressed. What I think we're going to agree with most is that the budget is one of the most important acts this Assembly is discussing. Also, I believe that most of us will agree that the budget is the highest legal act that defines the country's macroeconomic policy, I would say that it will live in the coming year and through the projects and the years to come. Right now, with a draft budget like this, it's a little more than happy. The ministry has allocated them small funds so that they can realise their plans, employees because the profits are limited. In the real sector, in the economy, of course, the first step takes place in such crisis situations that personal incomes are paid only as much as the pensioners earn because they are limited by further growth in pension payments. I think the state sector also has a limited salary source of some dissatisfaction for next year. Credit policy will be restrictive, and increased interest rates are announced if they are installed in the price of the product will reduce demand for the limited purchasing power of the population anyway. The global financial crisis in the world and in the European Union as our biggest partner has already made the impact that the demand for goods has fallen by almost 30% in these countries, that large companies in the world experience catharsis, collapse or lay off workers, or send workers on unpaid leave, with suspense when these workers return to work. This means that countries where we are mainly exporters will seek to reduce imports by means of measures of their economic policy to employ their capacities, which will certainly reflect our exports. In the face of crises of these proportions, and especially of the problems in which large world banks find themselves, there is a stop to investment, which will in particular reflect negatively on our economy. All in all, we have a difficult and very bad budget year ahead of us, but also a well-conceived budget that is restrictive, which through the objectives of economic policy makes a huge effort to answer many difficult questions that the financial crisis opens up, I think we need to adopt. It should be adopted because it is better as such than not to be adopted, rather than that temporary funding is taking place which is more restrictive than the budget itself and which, without the measure of macroeconomic policy, can bring greater damage than expected and cause chaos in the country's social and economic life, especially in the part of inflational fact and preserving the employment rate of workers. If it comes from the assumption that the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia is proposed under a revised macroeconomic plan that is conditioned by the global economic crisis, as well as achieved by macroeconomic and fiscal results in 2008, it can be expected that the planned economic policy of the Government and the monetary policy of the National Bank of Serbia will be fully implemented through the implementation of the proposed budget. It was certainly not easy or easy to manage the main indicators in the overall economic power of the state, including the population, to allocate a certain amount of funds to finance the functions of the state, its obligations and the activities of its bodies. The second, not less important segment, is also an economic expert analysis that required all needs, i.e. the legal obligations of Serbia that existed and did not exist from the previous year, requiring, as well as the new commitments of the state to be financed from the 2009 budget, that the planned total amount of funds be deployed in the best possible way and that they be met to a good extent by the request of all budget beneficiaries. It is particularly important for me, as a man from the economy, to define the government's commitment, although in limited budget resources, which remain after the fulfilment of the basic functions of the state, such as employees' salaries, material costs and other costs related to the work of the state authorities, as much as possible for the greater amount of incentives and other purposes in the economy. It is important to define that 50 billion dinars or 1.7% of gross social product will be directed in terms of the state guarantee for favourable dinar loans in the economy. Fresh money will seek to maintain employment and strengthen business activities with the government's partnership, the National Bank of Serbia and the business banks in which it will be close to 800m euros pumped into the economy. With dinar loans, business banks will provide aid to businesses, for which loans will be guaranteed by the government by 75% of the loans issued. It is a good definition that loans will primarily be granted to exporters and small and medium-sized enterprises whose repayment period will be up to two years, and the loans will be obliged to guarantee the maintenance of the existing level of employment of workers during the period of use of favourable loans. I believe that the government has made a serious effort to single out 30 billion dinars for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises from the Development Fund, 11 billion for active employment measures, 3 billion for infrastructure equipment of industrial zones and 1.7 billion for fostering greenfield investments. I think that directing funds from the budget is the best way to use money that allows multiple benefits, which is in terms of increasing production, which is employment and finally, which is returned through taxes and other taxes from such a viable production of money, however, to the budget. It is noted that a significant part of the budget structure, although not sufficient, is aimed at expenditure in the area of subsidies in agriculture, railways, infrastructure, economics and regional development, granting loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, exporters, which means that the government intends to return a good portion of the funds to the economy, which is otherwise separated from the economy based on taxes and other public taxes. I would like to express my satisfaction that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been doing so to satisfy the demands of budgetary users and to provide all submitted funding proposals, although it has been considered, has not defined to raise the ceiling of VAT. For me, it is a good sign that without increasing the rate of the main tax forms, above all I think of the VAT rate, the government has managed to draw up a budget that in the given conditions represents reality in the government's budgetary, economic policy for 2009. This suggests that the government is determined to run a solid economic and fiscal, National Bank in 2009 with this harmonised monetary policy. I hope that the Government had in mind that in the coming year, in the implementation of this budget, it will have to keep an watchful watch on all special priority projects and expenditures from the budget, which will not be easy or simple in my court, given the circumstances in which the country's overall economy will operate, especially in the context of the global crisis, which will certainly negatively reflect the overall economic environment in the coming year. The economy has a very difficult task, to maintain the existing level of production, to use rationally the aid the state provides, to increase and maintain the employment of workers. It's been said several times, but I want to repeat what the actual budget predicts. An estimated amount of budget revenue of 698.7 billion, expenditures of 748.7 billion, which means a budget deficit of 49.9 billion or 1.5% of gross social product is planned. The growth of gross social product is projected to be 3.5% compared to 2008, I would say too ambitious, and it will be 3,060 billion dinars, which is modest, but more than the average growth of undeveloped countries in the world, where the increase is planned from 2.2%. Inflation will move within 8% range. Time does not allow me, this is the government's commitment we have to understand and it is necessary to bear in mind the lag behind the development of this country of Serbia in the last twenty years and given the need to run so that those who walk normally can at least partially arrive. This task is no one's ambition or desire. I think it's a reality and it has to be made one general consensus and unity of the economy and out of business, that these tasks of economic policy are accomplished for the next year. However, this 3.5% is less than we achieved 6% and 7% of GDP growth. It was done so because of the projected reduction in domestic demand, through a reduction in public and private spending, due to lower profit and pension growth and increasingly difficult loan security. Public spending is reduced from 44% to 43%. Salary growth in the public sector, as you say is limited to 8% highest, pensions remain at the same level. All material costs in the public sector are reduced by 10% and the real growth of subsidies is also reduced. The number of employees in the administration is reduced through the abolition or merger of certain state functions. It is also expected to reduce exports due to reduced import demand in EU countries as Serbia's main partner. The decrease is the inflow of foreign investment in international credits, as well as the slowdown of financial sector services, with a deterioration of liquidity and the accumulation of loans. What is not directly related to the budget, but it is very important for the realisation of economic policy – is the need to launch activities by the government of the Republic of Serbia and other factors in the country in order to achieve agreement that there must be savings everywhere, both in the public sector and in the economy, that there must be much more work to minimise the effects of the devastating crisis. I am sure that the National Assembly will support such efforts, especially in the definition of continuing the construction of corridors, roads and throughout the year, in continuity, to support the implementation of this budget. In addition to the basic 2009 budget, we have a set of tax laws, six and two social laws, I would say. (President: Time. ) It is necessary to adopt them because I think it is a condition for meeting the budget. I say the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia Group will support this draft budget in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11205	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Dragutinovic, wants to speak to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11206	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, the adoption of the 2008 budget rebalancing was a great experience for me. I carefully wrote down all of that, all of your objections and questions, because I wanted to give you all the information with my new budget, no matter how much I knew that information would be used. My apologies for the delay in the budget, indeed, was sincere. As I've never hid behind a methodology in my desire to show the fiscal result better. It seemed to me that the reasons why this budget was delayed were also justified. I'm going to say something that I haven't said so far, and it's about the budget being delayed, and I'm not going to say it again. For a reminder, the Law on the Budgetary System was adopted in 2002 and the budget calendar was practically due to apply to the 2003 budgets. So, before 2003, there was no budget calendar and budgets were not delayed if they came for adoption before New Year's Eve. Since 2003, this is not the first time the budget has been delayed – it was late in 2004, 2007 and 2008 and is now late in 2009. So, I don't want to justify myself. My apology was sincere and I just want to say that he was more late than he was. Of course, this delay is no excuse either – we are neither alone nor alone. It is enough to look at how late the budgets were in neighbouring countries, especially those who made arrangements with the IMF. So I sincerely apologized. I wish this budget had arrived in time, but if there were ever more reasons to be late, that was this time. It was an illusion of mine, to say the least, of the ability and that some did it with more style and more speed, but you know, as I know well, that the minister is not the one who draws up the budget. He's been giving some strings, setting up frameworks, and the sector that's been preparing the budget has been the same since 2001. Some MPs say the budget is inflatable. I'm saying this one's not. The very fact that the budget has a deficit does not mean that the budget is inflationary, because inflation is not affected by the deficit itself, but by the way it is financed. The very fact that the state is too bulky also does not mean that the budget is inflatable. There are countries, and these are those countries with high public spending, such as Scandinavian countries, such as Germany, such as Austria, such as France, which have a share of public spending in the social product of 50% and more, so they have no inflation. Contrary to this, there are countries of very modest, Baltic countries, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey whose participation in public spending is little, so these countries have inflation, but the truth is, the state can influence inflation by its behaviour. The country's deficit creates liquidity – it's undeniable, but the deficit this budget has and the liquidity, which is based on it is approximately equal to the repayments of credits that actually mean the withdrawal of money. Therefore, this budget is not inflation. Someone said this budget had to be completely different. I've been trying to collect all the remarks. The remarks are approximately 70 or 80 billion. This budget is 748 billion. So he can't be completely different. It can be different and this budget is different, and it is especially different from the budgets, including all the rebalances that have been made since 2006. Also, as this budget is wasteful, it was mostly operated on by the fact that this budget is the largest. In growing economies, as much as we are satisfied or not, the budget is also growing, as profits also grow, as the social product also grows. So, if he's bigger than you, he better be bigger. What matters is the participation of this budget in the social product. I remind you otherwise that the cumulative growth of the social product since 2001 is almost 50%. So he is the biggest, but participation in the social product is not. There was an observation that this budget was full of optimism. I mean, it just has to be. Milton Friedman, most of you know, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, once said that when you expect not to see under the bed, you will really see it. So if economic actors expect inflation, it will almost happen more in scale than they expected, or if they expect depression, it will happen, because everyone will want to free the dinar, there will be great pressure on demand, and greater demand means higher prices. Since the outcome really depends on expectations, this budget must be full of optimism. As for subsidies, subsidies, again, relatively viewed as a percentage of the social product, is not small. It is bigger than in all countries in the region. Where there are three times as many subsidies and the social product is at least three times bigger. The most criticised drop in agricultural subsidies and definitely agricultural subsidies, relative to rebalancing, have fallen significantly, but have not fallen for no reason. The preliminary controls have shown that the number of users of these subsidies has increased. Why? Because some of the legal people were renting land to their employees, so they could be users of these subsidies. With this budget, I wanted to change at last, or try to change my mind, the way that money really doesn't mean a better service anymore. I'm going to call my mother again for help and her culinary abilities, that her better meal is not the result of more cooking, but a better recipe. Better control of funds, otherwise this regulation will be amended by the Ministry of Agriculture, with less money. I am always surprised over and over again by the question asked by Mr Velimir Ilic – where is the money from privatisation?- I'm sorry. I will respond again in the same way – the money from privatisation was spent on the payments of old loans and on increased expenditure. All that was left to me, as finance minister, is less than 300m euros and is still in account. As for the fact that this budget is not realistically planned and that no expenditure for expropriation is foreseen, I must say that it is also not true. 120 million for the Koroman field and another, the idea of expropriation being conducted by the land exchange. The state is expensive, I haven't slowed it down for a moment, but this country, or budget for 2009, is less expensive than before. It's really hard to cut costs. If you really resent how much this budget means reducing public expenditure, that's almost two percentage points. This budget and this country is expensive, but it's less expensive than it was. Are the revenues realistically planned? It's hard to plan under conditions of uncertainty. Based on the revenues we made in July, August and September, a budget rebalance was made. During that period, in September of the month, there was an IMF mission, because we had already negotiated a possible arrangement. They're famous for loving to underestimate incomes. Their projection was bigger than this, and I was really hoping. It's hard to plan and predict in conditions of uncertainty. What's much more significant is that Article 2 essentially gives this budget a deficit. So the deficit can't be greater than 1.5%. What if the proceeds fall? It's going to have to fall, and it's going to have to be expenses, because the deficit is something that's been nailed. As far as profit policy is concerned, there have been objections about profit policy, when it comes to education, education and all users, all employees who are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also from social security funds, receive profits defined in the same way. April earnings – 2% growth, October earnings – 6% growth, so, up to inflation rate. This really isn't my budget that's the government's budget and it'll be your budget eventually when you adopt it. Economists' advice takes place on 20 December at the Faculty of Economics, which is traditional, in Belgrade. I suppose the budget that teachers would bring would be better, but no country's budget nor Serbia's countries would bring economists to counseling. It is proposed by the government, brought by Parliament and it is always a compromise. Every budget is paper. Mr. Buha said this is a wasteful budget. When I summed up what else he would add, and what he would take away, it turns out he's adding 70 billion to take some other 70 billion. So his budget would be just as wasteful as this one. On how many amendments there are, and if in some way it were a criticism of the quality of this budget, I could say this: all these amendments are again worth 70-80 billion dinars. It is natural for me that MPs who are in opposition have different priorities than the government has and there is no dispute. This is for MP Popovic, he's not here, we're really not recordrs, I hope you'll convince him when the excises on the oil derivatives are at stake. I haven't found a single European country in which the participation of excise duty in the retail price on oil derivatives is less than 55%. Serbia is one of 49% of countries. Perhaps Mr Popovic knows what country it is, but I have checked the data, there is no country with a lower load. This country spends 27 billion on different forms of family protection with children. I don't think that's very small. Someone says they won't be able to pay off all the child's allowances or make up for all the maternity benefits. To our surprise, the Ministry of Finance employees, when we saw how much funds they were looking for, we asked for an explanation of why 40% more funds were being sought than was achieved in 2007. The answer was that the birth rate increased by 40%. I wish that were true, but the birth rate definitely didn't increase. What exactly is this about? The law does not specify the deadlines when a single maternity office applies to exercise its rights. Many employers, especially those in the private sector, after two or three years, subsequently report to the family. Better control of the use of the funds of every foster parent whose child is born this year will be provided. There's nothing controversial about investing in young people, in education, but when I add how many countries, through different ministries, I mean the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Sports and Youth, for talents, that's almost two billion dinars. You'll admit it's not small. After all, when it comes to the means of competition, as much as it is required for the competition, so much is given, precisely because we are aware of what investment in young people means. It was a lot of illusions, not illusions, I wouldn't say that about the length of my exposé. You can look at things one way or the other, according to one exposé, it took about five minutes, according to others a little more than 20, exactly, since my mother recorded, 25 minutes. My speech was planned to last one school hour, but it seemed to me, based on the atmosphere, that Parliament was not ready for that length of speech, ready or interested. In any case, for those few who are interested, my speech will be published on the Ministry of Finance website. Therefore, isolated from the requirements for greater education, science, living standards, spatial planning, different health care programmes, subsidies have nothing to object to. The only thing he can't do right now. Here, of course, you mentioned that the state is not saving because the state administration is too big and that the state should have shown how thrifty it is. I can say that even ending one trend is a change. We had a really steady trend in the growth of employees in the state administration that was interrupted. You'll admit it's a change, too. Also, there is an initiative by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to reduce the number of employees at local levels. Personally, I think it's a good thing the tendency is broken. I also think that the state should do nothing radical at the moment of the crisis, to strengthen the crisis further. Different questions were also asked. One of these is, is it true that I was against the unilateral application of the SAA. I'd say the following, if you ask me, as finance minister, if I'm happy to give up my income, of course the answer is no. Of course, the answer is no, especially so, if this fall in income is not followed by some fall in obligation. If you're asking me if the customs rates in this country are low? I'll tell you - no. They're extremely tall. They're high in a long time. Our economy has been overprotected over a long period of time. I think we better let the state create an ambience and teach people to run and jump. The long-term protection is more of a pity than a benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-23-0.u11207	I thank you, Madam Minister, for the really reasonable explanations, and I am sorry that the number of MPs who asked questions did not remain until the end, I assume that many ambiguities would simply bring an end to these MPs' thoughts. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Ministers, Mrs Stojiljković, I conclude a joint principle search on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, with proposals for decisions to give consent to financial plans for 2009, the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, the National Employment Service, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxes on Property; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises; Proposal for a Law on Temporary Taxation of Citizens of the Customs Tariff Act; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes; Proposal for a Law on Temporary Taxation of Taxation of Incomes of Citizens; Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obliging Social Security; Proposal for the Law on Local Security and the Imandation of the Imandation of the Treaty (Purity). I'm also finishing today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before I officially open the session, allow the MPs who wanted to speak to you. First Mr. Djura Muchenski.
