ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7153	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 117 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nikola Lazic and Meso Omerovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the Assembly, in accordance with Article 88, is Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Dr Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs Zivana Bogutincevic, adviser to the finance minister. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME (the follow-up in principle) The debate following the application of the MPs. For the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7154	Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please, colleagues, if they can listen a little bit because it's a very important topic. At 12:00 today, all council members of the KIM municipalities are coming in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, almost all of them. In their request, they are received by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia. The theme is to reconfigure the Eulex mission. Since we have, in several cases, interrupted the work of the National Assembly and paused because of some TV broadcasts of matches, tennis or I don't know what, I would ask all the MPs to come out at 1200 hours before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and welcome the arrival of our brothers with KIM. In case the president of the National Assembly and the president of the Republic of Serbia cannot accept all delegates, then it would be good to accept a delegation of committees from the territory of the Autonomous province of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7155	People's MP, this is an abuse of calling and seeking words for breach of Rules of Procedure, and abuse of Articles 225 and 226, because if we have a silent agreement to use, then you should seek some kind of notice. Instead, you gave information about an event that will take place on the street of King Milan and on Andric's wedding. As for the request for the delegation, I think you have information that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has received representatives of the Community of municipalities, and the procedure for the reception is well known today. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric. After that, the People's Messenger Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7156	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is certainly necessary to pass a new law on public procurement, since the current law, which was passed in 2002, has many shortcomings, indeterminateness and incompleteness, and leaves many opportunities for various types of abuses. However, this proposed law on public procurement compared to the existing one certainly is a better solution, but it has a lot of uncertainty and a lot of undefined things, so it also leaves the possibility of abuses, and certainly this is one of the most significant anti-corruption laws, and I think that some changes should be made to this bill. In short, by certain members and by certain problems, where I've noticed, I'm going to bring up these problems. In Article 45, when it comes to references, this bill allows the contracting authority itself to determine the time limit to which the references apply. I think that this solution is not good and should be more precisely defined, i.e. that it should define the time limit on which the references relate, so that they do not allow the orderer to define those deadlines himself and to create a possibility for certain abuses or for favouring a particular bidder. Among other things, this is also the condition laid down in the European Union Directive, Directive 18 of the European Union of 2004. It is also unusually low in Article 57 and may be one of the elements for refusing offers. It is necessary to define how this unusually low price is determined, but not only the unusually low price, but the definition should be extended to other elements deviating from market conditions. These are, for example, deadlines for the performance of works, the length of the guaranteed deadline, delivery deadlines, which can also be abused during the rating system. Classified purchases have no control. I think some state-owned institution should have control over classified procurement. I agree that there are certain purchases that need to be confidential, from which the public should be excluded, but some state institution would have to have insight into these confidential purchases. The rating system should be clearer and more precise, as it allows the orderer to favour certain bidders through the rating system and to be misused in public procurement. What is most interesting and most controversial in this law is in Article 24. This is a negotiation procedure without publication of a public call, and in point 4 of that article, it states in which cases a negotiation procedure can be carried out without publication of a public call. Point 4 states - if, due to the exceptional urgency caused by emergency circumstances or unforeseen events, whose performance is in no way dependent on the will of the contracting authority, the contracting authority could not have acted within the time limits set for open or restrictive proceedings. That wouldn't be controversial because there may be some kind of emergency. I don't have here a report from the Public Procurement Administration, which contains a list of public procurements carried out by emergency procedure, and that's in three months 364 public procurement. That means at an annual level about 1,500 such public procurements. There are really various abuses. I will give some examples of how to avoid the Public Procurement Act, under the form of urgency. The finance ministry, the subject of public procurement, works on the roof, gutters and facades, and the reason for the emergency procedure is the roof leaks, the facade threatens security. The roof couldn't get wet in two or three days. That was known and could be planned. The work on the water network, the value of the work 10 million, the reason for the emergency procedure is the firing of the pipe. If the pipe is cracked, it can be repaired and the procurement procedure can be carried out, to make that recovery of the water installation. Also, here we have the work on the recovery of the holes, the value of the 15 million. The reason for the emergency procedure is the interior ministry's order. The holes couldn't be made in two or three days. They existed and could have been planned through a public procurement plan for that year. Then, there are various other ridiculous reasons for the emergency procedure -- a time-consuming installation, sudden failures, a late adoption of a company plan. These are all inadmissible reasons to declare something an emergency procedure. In this law, it must be clearly defined which conditions are for an emergency procedure, not for the abuse of the emergency procedure, any inspection solution or inspection warrant may be the reason for an emergency procedure. This avoids the Public Procurement Act. He's practically devising himself because all kinds of public procurement can be conducted without the application of this law. I think there's still enough time for them to change this bill, to accept a certain amendment, so that this law really serves the purpose for which it is passed, which is to reduce corruption in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7157	The DSS parliamentary group is available for another five minutes. The People's Messenger Sasa Milenic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7158	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Madam Minister, in one of the works represented by the cornerstone of European literature, it is said that some books would be clearer and more understandable if they did not aim to be that clear. Because applying the criteria of clarity and illustriousness reads quite mathematically formalizes and distances from the Empirical, Experienced, Lifely, Daily Responsibilities criteria. If you thought I was talking about myself, I'm not doing it, I'm talking about the public procurement bill, with a tendency in which there might be some identification. The first confirmation and compliment that I would like to make to the legislator, more specifically, is one impeccable architecture of clarity and clarity in the presentation of this law which, unfortunately, we do not always have a chance to see in the texts of our laws. In addition to this value, which is not just an aesthetic issue of elegance, because this elegance results in the accuracy of the norm, the particular value lies in the fact that this is a law that regulates the area that we have already regulated, but after the five-year application of the existing law we are only practicing one training practice and the need for advancement, which seems also worth the attention and one institution that should be nurtured. The value of this law should probably also be sought in the fact that it increases the liability on the part of what the law defines as a contracting authority, or those who have public funds, which is of particular importance. The position of the Public Procurement Administration, which was significantly more regulatory in the previous period, is now not, the freedom of the contracting authorities has been expanded, but thus increased their responsibility, and in fact it is also the meaning of the affirmation of rights in one order and in the state. At the same time, such precision, elegance of the law also requires expert expertise in its interpretation and application. It seems that the obligation to have a special body to deal with this activity from the point of view of public functions is something that should have been prescribed before, something that exists in the more developed environments today, but that certainly wants to help overcome the problems that exist in real practice today. There could be a lot more to be said in a way that is complimentary and observed improvement over this law, but I think it's more useful if we also see certain problems that this law brings. We identified one of the problems at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, and it is found in the fact that the specificity of indirect users of public budgets, whose basic activity is related to cultural affairs, is not sufficiently recognised either in the text of this law. We have held consultations with quite a wide range of institutions, which in this area are doing their own work, which is why they are founded and almost all of them believe that precisely because of the specificity of this activity in Article 7, where those not subject to the public procurement law are defined, they themselves want to be recognized. The truth of the will, when I notice in this, if I am not mistaken, and a lexical improvement in the definition of the negotiation process, without making a public call, was previously called, if I am not mistaken, by a direct contract procedure, if only an aesthetic improvement in the language, it is successful, if there is a legal one, then the reasons are probably even deeper. Article 24 states that the contracting authority may carry out a negotiation procedure without publication of a public call, inter alia, and in the event that, for technical or artistic reasons, the procurement may be completed only by a specific tenderer for reasons related to the protection of exclusive rights. It is not clear whether this covers all the complexity of the problem that the cultural institutions are seeking their special recognition in Article 7. Of course, not in the part where they, as legal persons, have a whole range of non-related jobs for their basic activity, but precisely in the part where it comes to library activity and the purchase of books that can't be timely planned and foreseen on an annual basis for quite concrete reasons of publishing practice that libraries have to follow. When it comes to theatre activity which cannot always choose the cheapest directors or what, or when it comes to a whole other set of stage and artistic works related to the public procurement system, since a large number of institutions, particularly based on the level of local self-government that these specificities possess, I suggest that we take advantage of the Committee on Finance which discusses the amendments as an opportunity to check whether problems are just a matter of unsuccessful communication, language failure to understand legal messages, or if there are really certain specific features that are not given a pattern, to get into a legally defined public procurement process. Of course, our practice can also seem to achieve a silent agreement that does not pay attention to such things, as one of the veterans of parliamentary life, Mr Nikola Novakovic says well - the silent agreements have this beautiful quality, because for them you cannot accuse anyone of being responsible, because there is no telling who participated in the agreement, since it is too quiet, however, in addition to such precise and quality legislation, it seems that it would be worth caring for more precise institutes than the overly silent agreements of neglecting undetected problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7159	The word has been given by the MP Vladan Jeremic, followed by the MP Gordana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, taught by experience so far, it is clear that this proposal of the law on public procurement, which is now in the assembly procedure, will come about the same fate as almost all the previous legal solutions found here in front of the Serbian parliament's MPs. Regardless of the fact that the government's legal acts, especially in this anti-corruption area, are less or more bad, the main problem is that they are obviously very difficult to apply in practice. When it comes to public procurement, they are not only able to challenge domestic market distortions, but also affect the international market, so that this matter is regulated and international public procurement agreements. The share of public procurement in the EU's gross domestic product has reached 16%, and when it comes to the experience of transition countries, it has proved that effective application of the rules in the area of public procurement is a far more difficult and important task than just formal adoption of the EU directive. The conditions are formally met without having the capacity to effectively implement them in life. The analysis shows that in transition countries it is possible to identify the conditional three phases in the reform of the public procurement system. The first stage was characterized by the maximum ineffectiveness in spending taxpayers' money. The public procurement process was completely unregulated and was carried out mainly by collecting three offers, and often without it, showing that they were making competitions in tenders, practically, there was no. The second phase, following the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement in Serbia in mid-2002, marked a small number of bidders, completed contracts, as well as the public who was in some way better familiar with corruption cases, which in public procurement, we can freely add a prefix -- large ones, very negatively respond to numerous abuses. Until the third stage, i.e. a fully-rounded regulatory framework, which means the adoption of all the sublegislative acts envisaged, the specific roles of the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the Protection of Rights, necessary for the effective application of the law, the state of Serbia, as it is today, is still far away. A key role in the control of the realisation of public procurement contracts should be played by the State Auditing Institution. For the time being, practically, that job is only being done by inspection services and the MUP. However, infringements which the Administration, based on the criminal provisions of the existing law, submit to judges for infringements against law enforcement entities, have clearly limited range in a preventive sense, due to the limitation of the maximum fine which is determined at a level which is unequivocally only a symbolic part of the total value of the purchase. At the same time, however, the key importance for the range of control measures has a judicial system, to which the MUP submits applications for abuses, for which it collects evidence in the process of controlling public procurement contracts. Reminders for the sake of this, public procurement is at the same time the most valuable area in foreign business institutions when assessing the degree of corruption in a country. The facts you all know say that Serbia takes an infamous 85th place in the world at the value of the corruption perception index, which publishes "Transparence International" every year. Therefore, the state and the public sector are still the biggest buyers on the domestic market, because public procurement accounts for about 11% of gross social product, which should not be surprising, given that preferential treatment for domestic companies has been introduced, along with a 20% benefit on the side, when it comes to the criteria of the most economically favourable offer or the lowest price. For example, if, as a participant in a tender, you faced the situation that, instead of legally prescribed documents, you were left for only 4-5 days, you are one of the examples of misuse of public procurement. The Serbian public also knows of other examples of tendering, which, by the way, is considered one of the most just ways, and I only remind myself of the tender for the reconstruction of Belgrade Airport. It wasn't that long ago. This was not only a serious offense, but also a criminal offense, as the value of the works grew from 17 to 47m euros. The epilogue of the famous reconstruction of VIP salon and terminal 2 is the arrest of 11 suspects, including former DS Telecommunications Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, who was soon released from custody. There is no other comment, except that it is only possible in a country like this to Serbia. Not even schools have been spared from the problem of public abuse, say Syllabus School, which has participated more than 20 times in domestic public procurement tenders, but their offer has only been accepted twice. It doesn't matter if someone who has an extremely low quality comes or who offered the lowest price. In Serbia, about 10% of the budget stands out for public procurement. In developed countries, from funds for public procurement in an illegal way, it is spent between 15% and 20%. And we're probably talking about the same percentage. The data suggests that out of about 12,000 customers only 2,100 provided a report on the procurement of goods or services in 2007. It's mostly about the highest bidders, and they officially register $2.8 billion in spending. The estimate is that the remaining 10,000 smaller buyers spend at least that much, and they don't report anything within the legal time limit. The problem is that there are no sanctions on the application for serious violations. For the purchase of 20 million dinars, the company was fined only by warning, with a court explanation that the fine would be a cost to the state budget, because it was a state-owned firm. Now the question is: isn't bad procurement a budget cost? Some 250,000 contracts on public procurement are concluded annually in Serbia, and in 2007, as I said, there were 12,000 buyers and about 80,000 bidders. Thus, this number of infringements of the law also reduces the possible application of sanctions. The most painful question, of course, is how to prevent corruption in planning and public procurement. I do not believe that these new legal solutions, which are proposed to us and which will almost certainly adopt the parliamentary majority, will contribute to the improvement, until there is adequate control, the same prices for the same types of products, services and works, quality as the main criteria of professional objectivity and a significantly higher level of standardisation, as well as increased discipline in the application of the law. One of the freshest and most dramatic violations of the Public Procurement Act also made the company "Universade Belgrade", which concluded a contract without a tender with Croatia's Vortex on the dress of athletes. I am afraid that the State Auditing Institution, which is largely concluded on the party key, will have a hard time protecting the general interest of citizens and the state. Will there ever be a solution to the "Knjiz Milos" or "Satellite"? Hardly. The lighting of this first stop was, of course, a powerful man from the shadow of Milan Beko, due to direct interest in buying and reselling a strategically important factory. When it comes to other things, we come to the reserve house, or the excuse to preserve national security, or, rather, the G17 personnel. The latest example of public procurement abuse took place and broke up at the SO Mladenovac session, when the democratic government acquired a group of citizens of "best trailers", who still do not return their mandates to the one they belong to, hence the SRS, and with all their heart vote for proposals from the democratic authority. It is a good statute, it is possible to change the budget, and all for the government at all costs, which in this case is 3-4 seats in various commissions and working groups of SO Mladenovac. When my fellow citizens on the street ask me: how is it possible that, if they are in statements on B92, 'Justice', 'Presu', 'Blica', those biggest opponents of the Boris Tadic regime, my answer is that conscience and truth are the best witnesses of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7161	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, followed by a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal to the National Assembly on Public Procurement on 17 September 2008. Public procurement is often the subject of public interest due to suspicion of illegal spending of taxpayers' money and the possibility of corruption. In Serbia, about 250,000 public procurement contracts worth 190 billion dinars or about $1.7 billion each year were concluded, involving 12,000 bidders and 80,000 bidders. Public procurement is used 11% to 12% of the Republic of Serbia's gross national income. The 2002 Law on Public Procurement has shown numerous shortcomings in practice. Although the new legislative proposal amended more than two-thirds of the existing law, it remains a bad legal solution, which is why the SRS parliamentary group has submitted numerous amendments, some of which you have adopted, we hope that you will be the rest, and all in order to increase efficiency and fight corruption. This law does not allow the protection of public funds against abuse, nor reduces the possibility of the self-will of contracting authorities in determining the confidentiality of purchases in the rejection of offers due to poorly executed earlier contracts on public procurement, as well as the setting of criteria for the evaluation of offers and the modification of contractual obligations in the course of the realisation of procurement. Also, we believe that a three-day public debate on the new bill is very insufficient and inadmissible, because neither the contracting authorities nor the bidders had time to make their own objections and opinions about this new bill. Furthermore, we believe that the unresolved problem of this law is the question of the cost of compensation for competitive documentation. The law has many shortcomings, but I don't have time to list all its shortcomings, so the SRS believes that this law has made only cosmetic changes, and that the essence remains the same, so that continued public procurement remains the subject of Serbian citizens' interest due to suspicion of illegal spending of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7163	The word is a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, and after that, the MP of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has presented this proposal for a law on public procurement as another kind of fight against corruption, which the fact is in this area has to a large extent. In Article 4. The draft law sets out the principles of public procurement, the principle of economicity and the efficiency of public funds, the principle of ensuring competition among bidders, the principle of transparency of the procurement process and the principle of equality of bidders. All this would be good if it were respected. In practice, however, everything is different. In particular, there is little scope for disrespecting these principles in public procurement procedures. Currently, public purchases of small value are considered to be purchases of 2 million and 700,000 dinars. In the case of small-value procurement, the public publication of the initiation of the procedure is not mandatory. The fact that this would entail additional costs would be much greater, as the procedure would result in legality, and then the principle of ensuring competition and the principle of equality of the bidder would be respected as much as that. What should also be pointed out in the small-value procurement process is that Article 26 of the bill is defined in paragraph 3 that the minister responsible for the financing operations regulates the public procurement process. Until now, the procedure has been regulated by law, and now the minister is given too broad authority, so this process will depend on his will. The main problem is that we do not now have the opportunity to know how the minister will handle it. It may be good, but with this bill, the minister will be given the authority to regulate the public procurement process of small value, and we do not have the opportunity at this time to know how it will be arranged. I'm just going to comment on something that turns out to be a problem. In fact, there is a Public Procurement Administration as a special organisation that performs professional activities in the field of public procurement, providing conditions for the economic, efficient and transparent use of public financial resources for public procurement and promoting the competitiveness and equality of bidders in public procurement procedures. What is evident, and that is that a small number of public enterprises are doing their public procurement through public procurement services. They tend to choose to do it on their own, and of course the law allowed them to do it. This makes it less possible to control the control, as it is more difficult to control all public business managers and other public procurement providers, while it would be much easier to control public procurement service managers. The contracting authorities are only obliged to submit reports on completed contracts for public procurement and procurement procedures, and the Public Procurement Administration is obliged to prepare a review of the report on the completed public procurement and to publish it on the public procurement portal on the basis of the reports delivered by the contracting authorities. This law won't change any better. Its adoption will ensure neither the protection of the rights of the bidder nor the public interest in public procurement procedures. The exclusive right to always get jobs in public procurement procedures will remain reserved for those whose offer is always the most favourable because they are in party relations with those who decide on offers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7165	The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the law on public procurement. I have to say, it's a good thing that a law like this is passed that needs to bring in a little bit more light and better regulation of this and how important and sensitive matter. However, what is bad in the bill of this law is that this law is also unsettled, does not remove in the best way all the shortcomings of the previous law. If you look at this law, right at the very beginning of this law in Article 7, which speaks of confidential purchases, you can notice that there can be many major abuses by looking at these confidential purchases. Of course, these confidential purchases generally refer to both the most extensive purchases and turn out to be the most large purchases away from the public eye. Of course, every country has reasons and needs to keep some supplies away from the public eye. It is not defined here to avoid certain abuses that are possible. So, for example, the MUP can purchase a car fleet for police stations across Serbia by declaring it a public procurement that is confidential and one of these can take a large commission. Let's not talk about what can happen in the army. One can declare a confidential procurement of a uniform for Serbia's Army and can again be abuses. If there was indeed an abuse, remember the notorious affair of a former military minister when he rented some kind of satellite for a few dozen million euros, that no one alive knew how and why it was done and whether it really was the real price of renting that satellite. I must say that this is also one of the many laws passed in this House under EU directives. This law on public procurement is, above all, passed as the legal protection of investors from the EU. Although formally proposed by this law states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is its proposing, I must say that this law was created elsewhere. Namely, this law was created at a conference held in Istanbul, which covered the transparency of government activities, where a special accent was thrown, or placed on public procurement in the Western Balkan countries. So the overall content that praises this government of this law is not any idea of this government, but is primarily a domestic task by the EU that they must carry out. If that were true, it also says that monitoring is the responsibility of some sort of "Transparence International" organisation. Furthermore, if this law is observed, it can be seen that for large bidders this law does not act preventively, but it leaves the possibility and practically legalises corruption for large bidders. In Article 30 of this Act, we can see that there is no fee or fee provided for the submission of competition documents, but that is why in the second article, Article 117 provides for a tax on the application for protection of rights. The question is whether this tax is in line with the Administrative Tax Act, and I think that here the Proposer has changed the order of things. It would be more logical to introduce a fee and compensation for submitting competition documentation. Let's go back a little bit, according to the 2002 Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, there were about 300,000 public procurements somewhere and we see that the state gave up one huge portion of the revenue, and through these rights protection fees, it put those taxes and raised certain doubts as to whether it was in accordance with the law. When this law comes into force, the loss for the state will practically be even greater. In the end, let me finish, this law also mentions a category of unusually low prices, which is fine. But regarding this unusually low price, there is again one failure, and it refers to the fact that this law does not provide for any sanctions for those who give an incomparably low price. Because the layman who deals with some other things is also clear that if something really is worth a hundred euros, and someone gives their offer of 50, 20 or 30 euros, there is something wrong. But trust the experience, and I also have a personal experience at the firm where I worked, that there's a mining in some of my personal interests right now, so that one of the competition can't make public procurement, so it's done so that I don't say sabotage or mining. I suggest that for these bidders who give unusually low prices certain sanctions are established for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7167	The word has a National MP Milan Nikolic, followed by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7168	Dear People's MPs, the old Public Procurement Act, which was passed in 2002, has declared the new power an epochal discovery that will contribute to a better quality of budget spending, as public procurement concerns buyers who are budget spenders of 50% and above. However, this law has been updated each year, in 2003, 2004 and 2005, as it has proved in practice that it did not satisfy what was expected of it. Here I would briefly look back at the five-and-six chapters that talk about public procurement jobs. This law also introduces a public procurement officer. So, a public procurement contractor is required to predict his systematicisation and job that will satisfy public procurement. This tells us that we will be in a situation where budget users, most likely, will, since in the last position of this article in 98th, the contracting officer is obliged to obtain a certificate for a public procurement officer within three months of the date of establishment of the employment relationship. I expect that this will most likely work to accommodate new people, meaning the creation of new jobs. It would be logical to specify that, since there are people in all these public procurement users who have done so before, that these existing staffs are dressed to be able to do better public procurement. The Public Procurement Administration, it has existed so far, has been defined here as its tasks, means it controls the way public procurement, to allow it to be efficient and transparent, to issue certificates and other obligations that are given here. What's new to us? The Republic Commission for the Protection of Providers' Rights is emerging, taking into account that this Public Procurement Administration is also in the form of a Republic Commission for the Protection of Providers' Rights. It is a republican body chosen by the Assembly. However, it is not only the number of five members elected by the Assembly, but there is also a special service. This service is likely to be massive, because we were told in previous exposure that at the level of the year it was made out of 250,000 contracts, that there were about 12,000 requests for public procurement, and that the value is about two and a half billion dollars, so I think this will create an increase in the administration, i.e. an increase in budget spending. I would also refer briefly to the necessary documentation for participation in public procurement, and one of them is proof of the payment of the tax obligations due. We know that in the previous days and we've adopted the Law on the Liberation of Contributions, so individuals are being released, individual companies, businesses are being released from individual contributions, and someone who wants to apply for public procurement, he has to ensure that he paid all taxes to the state. Sometimes these taxes are even greater than the benefits they achieve with public procurement. We've seen that certain entities are exempt from these obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7169	The word has an MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed the debate on the proposal for a law on public procurement on which MPs, mostly the opposition, have brought forth a large number of objections and a number of examples of the bad experience of the previous law that is still in force. And such a bad, as it was made in the previous period, is not respected until the end, especially from the system of position, which they found fit themselves and gave the right to all those shortcomings and holes that they proposed last time make maximum use of, and in that exploiting themselves, to obtain illegal property profits. We have also drawn attention to this past Public Procurement Act and now, in Serbia there are a large number of abuses of this law, which is already widely known. The law on public procurement does not know the term of punishment. The prosecutor doesn't work according to his job description well, because whoever didn't respect the Public Procurement Act is not being punished in an adequate way, it wasn't being re-audited, it wasn't being re-produced, it was being announced, and then we're getting into a situation where these legislators, I don't mean the Ministry at the moment, but in my position, mostly, I mean the DS officials, they abuse it as much. So, what's this about? I will only list a few basic and classic examples that, I suppose, if they operate in the city of Belgrade, the country's capital, function throughout Serbia. When a director, appointed from a congregation or from a city assembly, rents a business space, rents a place, and announces it in a newspaper that neither anyone buys, nor who knows it exists at all, and no one answers the first advertising, and no one answers the second advertising, he gets the possibility of a free contract. So, for example, a place rented at a monthly value of 500 euros is rented to a friend for less than 100 euros at a monthly level. That friend does a sublet, and then it's nice that he's running a procurement tender and what he bought, and the law doesn't recognize the terms of punishment. The moment he logs in, and when it is stamped and implemented to the competent authorities -- there remains a dead letter on paper or a paper full of dust in some judiciary. Since one of the systems is the largest, filling of private pockets - it is the Law on Public Procurement in all areas, especially in the building, especially in the publication of the tender. We had a situation to see how much Belgrade cost Nemanja's street -- the quality of these works, who are subcontractors of what he won in the tender, what kind of family ties were and who punished it, who answered it -- we don't know the answer to those questions today either. It is very bad that even the members of the proposed law are mentioned here - that they should not be related to the one who has called the competition and the one who participates in the competition, but that is physically unproven. I'll give you a simple example. I have to leave Belgrade again, because I am an MP from Belgrade, but I believe that is the case in Serbia. When a president of the municipality announces an urban and architectural competition for a certain continent in his municipality, because there is a plan of detailed regulation in which plans of regulation, detailed regulatory plans, and the president of the municipality sets out a competition for such a thing, the same companies in all municipalities where the DS is in power must be defeated in the same competition. Then we have, say, a company called Slavija biro or "Slavija projekt", a firm called "Architekte of the City of Belgrade" or a performer "Monter" or "Energogas" who now worked and the tender documentation prepared for gas implementation in central city municipalities, we come into a situation when we enter pores, that people who have applied to be members of the same party, that some of them are related, if not godfatheric etc., and that we come back to that same story from the beginning. Unfortunately, the whole story is costing the citizens of Serbia. The budget, which is precisely defined here in Article 26, is the last position, says -- the finance minister determines the process of public procurement of small value. Small values of public procurement are mainly used by municipalities that do not have money in their budget. Now, the minister, elected by the political structure, has the right to determine, depending on the government in local self-government -- who will be provided by the project, and who not, and to make the order or selection of project priorities depending on who is in power in the local environment. So again, there's some kind of lower-level monopolization and still opening up the possibility for local self-government officials, even though it says here that urban municipalities, for example, have to submit a report to the city's assembly for dedicated funds. It also says that local units of the municipality's assembly have every three months to submit a report to the ministry -- whether the funds have been spent or not. I would also draw attention to this law, to the following examples. Specially interesting is the case of lawlessness in public procurement, with which the democratic authority is linked, for example, at Starar, the destruction of illegally erected objects. The municipal budget in 2004 cost 10.6 million dinars. Control of the method of random sampling, applied by the budgetary inspector, concerned expenditure control against the Belgrade-based construction record company DOO. The company, which was apparently favored by the head of the municipal government, charged millions of money on behalf of its demolition operations during 2004 from the Municipality of Zveztar. This company has made payments from the budget in the following amounts: 1.3 million, 1.4 million, 1.5 million, 1.6 million, 553.560, 561.600 and 849.982 dinars. According to the budgetary inspector, since opposition or SRS committees immediately noted and reported, the controlled costs according to the Belgrade-based construction record company DOO amounted to 5.4 million dinars, but it is important to stress that it is not all accounts, but rather a method of random sampling. Of course, for these works, the municipal government has not conducted a high-value tender in accordance with the Law, on which the best firms or the best, the cheapest and best quality performer would be selected. So this is where people applied to the law, used members of the law, and didn't implement it in practice. Then this is something in theory, and the other in practice. That's the same thing for the Sava Wreath Community. There's a company called "Avangarda" on the Sava Venac municipality. It's a company of an DS official, which works both on Vracar and on Old Town. The company has quite large amounts of its work, large sums of money being taken from the municipality because it ruins central municipalities what is not at the will of the municipal government and takes huge money for it. Did all that money go to that firm only, did when he went to that firm he was divided with whoever was given the money, it remains to be determined by the research authorities? But I'll be back on the Stargazer in no time. What's much worse than this is the fact that it's a clean crime, because the ZZR "Record" municipality of Belgrade concluded a contract with another company in 2002 for the destruction of illegally raised objects. According to another discovery of the budget inspection, previously executed accounts, whose number we mentioned, were not issued by the SZR "Record" from Belgrade, but by the company "City Record" DOO from Belgrade. Watch what all men serve? In the tender, she participates in a public competition under one name, in the background works under another name, taking money for another name. For the first one, he remained clean, split the money for the second, and all the nice pockets full. The works, therefore, were invoiced by a completely different legal entity, with which the municipality had no contract at all. We wrote this, as well as the journalist of Greater Serbia, who did the search at the base of the Business Register, who runs the Agency for Business Registers for all companies and entrepreneurs, in order to be able to connect to what's really going on here. In the Business Register, under the registration number team and team, now not to read, and the home number, a company for the construction of the "engineering and Construction Services Record" DOO from Belgrade, which operates with the short term "Build Record". So I wanted to simplify it to the citizens of Serbia -- a classic and ordinary example of procurement when it comes to the destruction of illegally built buildings. As for construction, for example, when it comes to housing cooperatives, the municipality has now been given the City Statute in Belgrade the opportunity to dispose of city-building land. She, in co-operation with the City Construction Directorate, can make a pretty good compromise and that the extra locations, based on this member I read, 26th position 3, monopolise which one of these people who applied will get that location. So be careful what it's all about. You called this anti-corruption law, and these holes I put out in a flat-rate, simple case in downtown Belgrade will be applied everywhere in Serbia, and then you'll say, we're honest, we arrest our officials, in Zrenjanin like this, in Zrenjanin, and ask God if he took a crumb from the Zrenjanin official. What he took was just a crumb of what was taken in the central part of Belgrade. Do you know how much it costs a square meter of a building in downtown Belgrade and how much it costs to build it? That difference is pretty good. By the way, someone's got a good mustache and a lot of pockets. So this law is bad for you. This bill didn't come into the anti-corruption system. This law is wrapped in the coast. It should show that you had the will and desire, but that you didn't do it, because all the holes and possibilities you left in this law will be used by you, more specifically, on the position, on the officials of DS, who, as an epochal appearance here, and we have witnessed that this law is the source of abuse and something rich in certain individuals. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7171	Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups, and before the initial search is concluded People's MPs are getting that the SRS still has time. [[Adversity from the scene, Zoran Krasic: SRS still has time.]] Applications for the word shall be submitted after the opening of the principled search, shall be submitted by the president of the parliamentary group or by the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The SRS did not take advantage of all this time during the debate, because MP Srboljub Zivanovic was not present, MP Milan Avramovic came to the chairman with a request that instead of MP of the people, Srboljub Zivanovic, the MP Milan Nikolic spoke, and that the MP Milan Avramovic was added to the list, which was done. If I repeat all this, you will again have a remark that I speak too long and too long. Then a shorter explanation: besides the Rules of Procedure, and according to the proposal of MP Milan Avramovic, two names were added during the debate, no other name was added. Therefore, since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? MP Mirko Chikiriz. You didn't use the law? You do not have the right to speak unless you are the president or authorized representative of the parliamentary group. So there's no one. I thank and conclude a principled search on the proposal for a law on public procurement. We move to a joint principle search of the 9-11th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE DEPOSIT, AGENCY FOR THE SURVEILLANCE OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE BANKS AND THE LIQUIDATION OF THE BODIES FOR THE GOVERNMENTS 10th and 11th, and before the opening of a joint principle search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS parliamentary group - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slavic group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs under these points of the agenda: the SRS MP group, Milorad Buha, the SPS-JS parliamentary group - MP Zoran Kasalovic, the MP group "Forward, Serbia" - MP Jorvanka Tabaković and Parliament group DSS - MP Radojko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank and Insurance Companies Act. Does the proposal's representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Diana Dragutinovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are three draft laws on the agenda today and all three practically represent the country's response to the financial crisis. Therefore, it is not disputed that the financial crisis is and it is not disputed that the financial sector in our country is not the cause of the crisis. The crisis is being transmitted and the signs of the crisis are already beginning to feel. The state has to react quickly, but as our people say, "which is fast, it's short," so it has to be comprehensive and solve all the problems the crisis can affect - from liquidity to a return of trust. It also has to react coordinatedly, which means the state, or government, along with the National Bank. What's this about? The financial crisis actually affects the drop in capital inflow. The drop in capital definitely means less liquidity. Under less liquidity, loans and borrowing costs are becoming longer. It's the worst thing to panic. There's no reason to panic and the state's response is - changes to deposit insurance laws. The state will guarantee a deposit of 50,000 euros in dinar value. That is, therefore, the most significant change. The limit has been increased from three thousand euros to 50,000 euros. The reason why it was done? There were objections that this was too much, some smaller amounts were proposed, say 20,000 euros. I'm just saying, this is a supplemental mechanism. There are two ways in the world that you react to a crisis like this: either you have a large reserve, or you have a deposit insurance fund. We have both ways: a high mandatory reserve 40% on foreign exchange savings, which means that at 100 euros 40 euros is safe, is on the central bank account. So it's the first system of protection. The second system of protection is the deposit insurance fund, which exists and guarantees, only one who needs it and if necessary, one deposit per bank -- 50,000 euros. Why? The action must be coordinated, therefore, as countries in the environment and EU countries have raised the limit, and the minimum limit is 50,000 euros, we have done so with this proposal. The change also relates to the Law on the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and insurance companies and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. The basic reason for the change is that in the existing law it is not clear who it really refers to. It was possible to understand that in some ways only banks in state hands are protected, or where the state has its stake. With this bill, we fix this situation of things by wanting to say that if there really is any risk by the financial sector and in the financial sector, the state will react. We didn't want to give an unlimited guarantee because the unlimited guarantee leaves room for moral gambling. All we have done in this law is a practical return to trust, or a desire to restore trust if, in part, this trust is lost. So, the main changes in the limit are to 50,000 euros, similar to the rest of the world. The funds are for it, there's double protection, and this change is about the entire financial sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7173	Does the rapporteur of the Finance Committee, MP Branko Ljiljak, deputy chairman of the board, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the board, want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs Slobodan Maras and Mladen Grujic, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee during the discussion, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7174	Dear colleagues, I do not belong to those who believe that in the work of the committee it is necessary to use the institute of a separate opinion, because you are either for a proposal or you are against it. Unfortunately, in this case, I was forced to do so in order to share with you my personal view of this government's final nonsensence. The proposal to increase the guaranteed deposit from three thousand euros to 50,000 euros is good, but unfortunately it arrived too late and is also unrealistic. This is just another innumerable example that this government is dividing all MPs' proposals into proposals that come from the right or the wrong side of this hall, not good or bad. Whatever we're proposing on the wrong side is either considered stupid, at best, or for high treason, at worst. The MPs on the wrong side on October 9th asked for relevant persons from Serbia's financial sector to come to the Finance Committee and together to see what we do at the time of the global financial crisis. The opposition has made two proposals. LDP counterparts have suggested raising the guaranteed deposit from three thousand to 5,000 euros and my counterpart Rade Obradovic, vice president of the assembly, has argued to raise to 20,000 euros a guaranteed deposit. On the first and second proposals, Mr Jelasic and Mr Ilic, present here, simply shook their hand, declared us panicking, and then cast us on the endless display of slides, as if we were children at school. Today is November 14th and we have a proposal to raise the guaranteed deposit to 50,000 euros, and on October 9th it should not have been raised to 5,000. I'd like to know what happened in the meantime. I'd be glad if this was a sign that this government had gathered, called out for consciousness and decided to react to a general loss of trust in the banking system, but the way we're bringing this measure tells me that down in Germany, no one understands the seriousness of the situation. The proposal was put to the end of the session's agenda, where the vote is expected in early December. If you had made this decision when we of the opposition proposed it, we would have had different results in the week of savings, which is the most important moment of the year for the relationship of bankers and savings. Did you notice that no one's talking about the results of the week's savings this year? In the past few years, the record has been loudly published as to how many deposits the bank has raised, and this year it is as if everyone has been relieved when the action is over and no one mentions the results. Gentlemen of the government, 45 days ago on the table, you had an opposition proposal on how to get a little security into a broken banking system. You rejected him from conceit, stupidity, or wrong belief that you alone have a solution for all the problems in this country. To be honest, I don't think you have time to deal with this people's problems because you're too busy operating the government that makes up 14 parties and how to share prey amongst so many, how to hire strong children, sons-in-laws, swastikas and what I know. It certainly takes a lot of time and energy, and I understand that. That's why I'm telling you that since you're so busy, don't hesitate to accept an opposition proposal because that's how you solve problems, and don't waste time on what's most important to you, from sharing money and functions. Finally, the proposal to increase the guaranteed deposit on October 9th made some sense, and today it's just a measure that someone's bringing order to work and just to show they're doing something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7175	The word has been issued by MP Slobodan Maras, who also issued an opinion at the Finance Committee's session to discuss the above-mentioned draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7176	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, as well as my predecessor, Mr Grujic, on the Finance Committee, I singled out my opinion mostly for the same reasons as he did. A pea was accidentally undersold to him, so he said LDP MPs suggested that insurance of the mandatory deposit went to 5,000, and we proposed seven and a half thousand, and that was the moment when it made sense to us. Of course, colleagues from other parties proposed some larger amounts then. As Mr Grujic says, Mr Ilic remembers very well, we were said to be panickers, even by the President of the Assembly. Then came the government's decision, which is the proposal that came to us and that we welcome, of course, but we also think it is too late. We have a few hundred amendments here to talk about in the next few days, for the next few weeks. So the question is when will this really be adopted, the question is when will citizens benefit from this, or when, by adopting this law, citizens will be able to feel certain security. The intensity is excellent. You've also explained to us on the board that around 98% of the roles in this way are secured and that's something that I assume is going to give every normal a dose of security, or trust in some system. But again, I'm undermining, we're afraid this is too late, we're afraid that the moment we condition this, this bill, that it will be a long time from today and that all the crisis we're talking about and all the effects that are affecting our country will also leave some more profound consequences. Of course, we don't think this is the only move the government has to take. We learn from the media that the agreement with the IMF has been reached, that the budget will be what we talked about during the budget rebalance is quite rigorous, or that there will be savings, which we also welcome, but we could have agreed on a few weeks ago and a few months ago. Here we were getting answers to our questions that couldn't really satisfy us at that point, and now it turns out that we were really right when we asked you all those questions, or we were offering some solutions. We have also offered to you, that is, all the heads of the parliamentary groups and president of the Assembly, received one proposal from the LDP that we wanted to make an agreement with, and with all the parliamentary groups and with the Government on what should be done by 2009, that the state of Serbia and its citizens survive in the best possible way, that is, to keep our country effective, we have offered one agreement. We have offered you in this agreement to pass some laws, so that those who earn the greatest profit, or those who, above all through energy, have terrible incomes, may be taxed. We called it Robin Hood's laws, basically the ones who earn the most in this situation to get back to this country. I would like you to come here in two or three months and propose such laws, not because we propose them first, but because we think it's the interest of the citizens of Serbia. I will be free after this session to give the minister a programme of arrangements for the future, agreement and with the government, and to consider it and to take a look at it. We offer some solutions that will be able to bring security to both citizens and institutions themselves. Once again, I'm afraid it's too late, I'm afraid a lot of time will go by, because of all these major amendments, when this law will be passed. We suggested a month ago, you then declared it a panic spread, today we see that we were right. I hope that even around these other programs of ours, they will soon understand that they are good suggestions and offer good and right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7177	The debate also includes presidents or representatives of parliamentary groups. First, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, president of the Progressive parliamentary group, registered Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7178	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, we have three laws on the agenda that have been joined up and I hear that my colleagues before me are placing mostly a focus on deposit insurance law, wanting to convince citizens that if a bankruptcy is opened over a bank, the secured deposit of 3,000 has been increased to a value of 50,000 euros and there is no one who would not welcome it. However, as a long-standing MP and representative of the Progressive Parliamentary Group, Serbia cannot fool the story of securing deposits and raising the value of insurance, as many have entertained more than the unfulfilled savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget in a budget debate on the budget of the giraffe. Unfortunately, I have an unpleasant duty to tell the citizens that in the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, the Agency that I so often mention, the proposed amendment of the law is contained in all two sentences, in one article asking the Deposit Insurance Agency to obtain the right, on a proposal from the National Bank, to purchase bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. It's, uh, respected citizens, like when someone tells you that there's a dangerous kind of flu in the world and we're asking your permission to euthanasia over your father, the guardian of the family. Because banks are, especially those in which there is a majority capital, which we call domestically. This time, the authors of this idea do not seek to commit a brutal murder, such as that committed in January 1st, and started in October 2001 by opening bankruptcys against the Bank of Commerce and several smaller banks. The impertinence to ask the Assembly to buy bank actions that put financial stability at risk by their business, and without indicating who will determine what procedure and how it is, is a request for euthanasia. I'm asking you as representatives of the government to tell me if anyone ever sent a patient for radiation without even establishing the results of his blood count, and assuming someone is suffering from cancer somewhere? Is there a patient without an X-ray sent to surgery on his leg? There is a Law on Banks, which in Sections 102 to 122 provides for a way of control by the National Bank of Business Banks, in which there is also a rather wide discretionary law of the National Bank to which it has been widely used, and the current governor. I can't believe that someone, I'm sure Minister Diana has nothing to do with this as a proposing, would certainly not have let you tell us here which genius mind came up with this one sentence and forced the government to stand behind her and bring this to the Parliament for adoption. Who can do this without any document called a solution, any legal act in which it has been found that, in some places, business threatens the financial stability of the financial system of the state, economy and anything? It is not enough for you that the Bank Act, in Article 121, states that employees who exercise control are absolutely not responsible for the measure they have done, which has done harm to someone only if it is done with extreme negligence or negligence. It is not enough that the National Bank has discretionary rights for such control, but is asking us, any MPs, to allow you to play with the rest of the banking system, with the effects we know. What do we know about effects? How many cases are there before the court over the shut-down insurance companies that are still at a stage of unresolved problems? What about the bank bankruptcy that opened in 2002? Is the secret to their long-term duration contained in the Act on this Agency, where Article 14 states that the funds that this agency collects by its operations can be invested in short-term securities of value or deposited in bank deposits? Dear citizens, the funds raised by bank bankruptcy, the sale of art paintings, the lease of space without compensation or the sale of Postage Savings, the timely and some banks, the lease of low prices, the collection of funds by this agency, to which we should give another weapon to which no one will be entitled, can hold as a deposit with the banks. You know what it means, to make very nice income, officially and unofficially, by holding such funds. I ask the question - is the secret to the duration of these banks' bankruptcy proceedings contained in this? I also ask one question to which you have an answer, and you and I - the decision to invest these funds, the deposits collected by the Agency for Rehabilitation, is made between the other and the board of directors, which, since these agencies exist, have met with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the National Bank, and now the professional association of banks, and so that the National Bank had a predetermined earlier, and now of the seven members, are three representatives of the Ministry of Finance, where the minister by nature is a member, and where the National Bank of Serbia is bound to be one of the vice-government members. They also give two members. You know which, from 2000 until today, was also the finance minister, who was the vice governor, and who was the governor, and who decided that without an investigative procedure, no control, no warning measures would be put out of the bank and that the procedure would continue. It is not against to mention these names again - Mr. Dinkic, Mr. Djelic, Mr. Cvetkovic, but there is also a name that is very well known to the public, in the image of the Agency's director, Mr. Nemanja Kolesar, where at the appointment of members of the Management Board of this institution and at the appointment of the director of the Agency are the most ideological disputes, in the old battle fought over jurisdiction over huge funds. Repeating this speaker - 11.5 billion dinars have been charged to only four banks, the large banks as we call them, and this has been the report since 28 December 2007. What is special to me is that the Management Board, run by the Government and the National Bank, and people who earn and dispose of the largest amount of funds are unreasonable in their desire to decide on the economy and banking of this country. Smart people say -- don't increase Pithol's property, keep it in your desires. If this assembly doesn't restrain you in order to control and determine how someone threatens the financial system you enter into the process of buying bank action, we know what it means, I think this is really a failure of both the financial system and the institution called the banking system, but also the legal system of this state. These aren't too strong words. The government of banks when under the pretext of the Paris-based London-based State Club reprogramme used the situation to become the owner of banks, sold them out as they wanted and who they wanted, but to hire for it quite certain, they remained secret, financial and legal advisers, and to give someone a reward for success in those percentages, reminds them, and this is a re-try, where under the mask of the financial crisis the story of increasing the value of the deposit that is being provided, and in fact, a completely different goal is being achieved. Don't let anyone say that target isn't visible. He is not hidden at all, in that one member he is obvious, where the executioner is given the right to mercy. Mr. Jelasic, who eventually refused the Convert Group of Russia, who wanted to enter the country's financial market, refused by using his discretionary right, saying her credit rating was as low and was as high as the state whose governor of the central bank. It's about abuse of discretion. This man who dares to say, last week he made a statement that we can't live in a country where profits are private and losses are public. A man who made a loss with his monetary policy in 2006, a final account, of 376m euros and made profits to private banks in trade re-op, for which we do not have accurate data yet, but this loss is someone's gain, dares to say that we cannot endure in a state where the losses are public or state, or on the burden of all citizens, and profits in private. Gentlemen, if you think history starts with you, you're wrong. In the Law on the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks or more precisely the law providing for the work of that agency, there was a provision where, under the law, the Deposit Insurance Agency was obliged to submit its financial plan and final account to the Federal Assembly for adoption. To the federal assembly, the federal authority submitted a financial plan and a final account to the adoption. Does anyone know anything about who has the funds of the Bank Rehabilitation Agency? How much is it? Who owns the banks? What they are invested in, if even the Ministry of Culture, as part of the government, has in its own time filed a complaint, because even the images protected by law were sold and sold by another state body that is the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks. If the Government did not provide within itself mechanisms to have such and so much resources, to control them, I remind you that the Assembly had a commitment, because it is a significant area, and today it is even more important, about the significant resources, which we advise you to invest in the State Development Bank of Serbia, to fund domestic economy through domestic savings, and to ensure, as far as possible, that the interest rate on savings and credit costs is done in favour of this economy. The law itself and the way you suggested it suggests that there is a secret triangle called power-political-money, which you have no intention of breaking up. I really dare say it's funny that the section in the deposit insurance agency law is called doing business for the Republic of Serbia. Who is the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens, if the Agency so has the resources and if it requires such a right to continue to receive funds that will be available to me, I do not know for whose benefit, and I have reason to believe that it is neither in favour of the government, because there is no budget of its revenues, it is neither in favour of the Republic, because they are citizens, and citizens do not benefit from it. You even dare to place a decree in the law on bankruptcy, recovery and liquidation of banks that they will not be allowed to accommodate the connected persons and that the killing of legal actions for the bargaining of connected persons is extended for a year. Respected citizens, the benefit of debtors means to give a certain asset or property to a creditor at a lower price than a market price or at an even insignificant price. The bank's recovery agency ran a space inherited from banks over which a bankruptcy was opened that has not yet been completed, and then gave it to a National Savings Officer who, in her name, fully designed to have "national" as a name, to fool citizens into being a state institution. At which price and under the conditions granted, will one day be discovered by the investigating authorities, I am convinced. Only one who knew how to abuse state funds by giving to their friends, remember, the Small collective and others, who eventually benefited from the sale of shares of the National Savings Bank, earned millions of profits on the abuse, i.e. the benefit afforded by the state, and again it was the same circle of people I had just cited. Whoever was there, who remained deprived and thought he would be incomed, was later shown in newspaper texts and in each other's arguments and accusations. Do you think we're really worthy of the humiliating excuses you're offering us here? Do you really think these laws can't be found on the site, that there are no official lists, messengers where they stand? If you know, and you know, and you're dating us with a text like this, what can I say about that? It's the insolent behavior of the authorities, who can't understand that there are elections. If you put into the law that it will not be protected from the deposit acquired from terrorist actions and money laundering, I ask you, why didn't one point stand, so you didn't specify - what is proved by law prescribed? Will such a provision again serve you as an excuse for dealing with those, I may even be extremely diabolical, so that I may say, with those with whom you have done business, they have not paid you back, so that you may destroy them. Or someone you suspect, so apologize tomorrow, but who's going to make up for the damage? Budget? Serbian citizens? I don't think that's right. I think it is inadmissible, and if a law has ever entered this assembly that has asked MPs for more freedom, which is not called the right to solve the problem, but has shown more impudence to abuse power, to harm citizens, then it is this law. Please, even a doctor of general practice doesn't give a head tablet until he records the condition until he does the analysis. Do not fail to enter into these laws elements that will speak not of political struggle, of your arbitration and superficiality, but of the need to respect the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7179	National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). After him, MP Zoran Kasalovic, as an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I would like to advertise Rule 104 and Rule 27 on the work of the National Assembly and Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is where a citizen came out and gave moral lessons. He's entitled to that under other conditions. Under the prescribed conditions, the acts of this assembly, this constitution, has no right to do so. Madam Chairman, you had an obligation and a duty when this citizen came out... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7181	National MPs, in the National Assembly Hall, and during the session of the National Assembly, the People's MPs, who have different functions, representatives of the Government and invited persons who, in special circumstances, can get a word for it. I warn you not to insult the dignity of the National Assembly. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic received the word as an authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group and has all the rights that she has under the law from the status of the National Parliament. Either you're going to compare your exposure, considering that the Rules of Procedure is hurt, in polite words, or you're going to put yourself in a position to create a basis for speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7182	I know I'm one of your sympathies that you like to punish, but I don't want to be rude at all, even though you want me to. You just told me to bring in the courtesy. But you're not the subject. I have some concerns here in general, and that's what Article 102 says. The Constitution and I am obliged to comply with a member... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7183	People's MP, breach of a member of the Rules of Procedure is the basis for which you receive your word. You can't get a word in because you think that somewhere in some place, any member of the Constitution has been injured, or we're authorized to talk about the violations of a member of the Constitution. I ask you to stick to the arrangement that we use and abuse the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Avramovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking a question in accordance with Art. 225 and 226 — on what basis and under what law can someone hold moral lessons, since it is not an area of this session in general, in this room in general, where do we deal? How can someone represent something they're not authorized to do by citizens? How can someone say they took something that isn't his and teach others not to do it? How can someone take the right to allow the National Assembly, MPs and positions and opposition, to teach lessons in their field, for which we have no objection, and what does it do? You must take into account certain facts that those people who are damaged, whose time has been taken, that those people who have not voted for something that is represented here, those people who do not know the terms and do not know these people, before they are represented, lead to the confusion of Serbian citizens. One general question arises - what legal act and medicine are we that are damaged to serve? If we respected all the legal procedures, if we applied for abuse of our official position, if we complained about constitutionality, which protection do we use to get what's ours? The question is, we don't have any space but to get out of this pay phone and stamp it, so don't mind us. We are not in the function of obstruction of the Assembly session, we are in the position of protector of our rights. Every time we do that, we'll be after those who represent something they're not, those who don't have the legitimacy of the people and those who here represent what they don't even know whether they are or aren't. Thus, the Law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act was adopted in this congregation. In terms of funding for those represented here, the law is not respected. It is our duty to ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Art. 225 and 226, when this will come into effect, who will respond to it, and when the SRS will return what others have taken from her, and you are obliged to respond to it. So I apologize for earlier, but next time I will use other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, so that it will be easier for both of us and for the citizens of Serbia to know that we do not have what we have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7185	The speech is attended by MP Zoran Kasalovic, an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. After that, MP Milorad Buha, a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7186	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the major global financial crisis cannot and will not bypass the Republic of Serbia and it is now quite clear, although this was a dilemma and the subject of a lively debate just weeks ago in this Parliament and in the professional public. What is expressed at this point as a basic feature of the crisis is that this is primarily a crisis of trust, which has further affected the crisis of liquidity and demand, and finally, by selling in many countries, but not all. In fact, perhaps the symbolic picture and indicator of this crisis is an example of Marks' famous work "Capital", according to the latest data, sold in Germany in a tenfold more circulation than in previous years, in which many key issues are once again sought, and that is certainly proof that this is a crisis of trust in fundamental values. Therefore, there is a need to assess the possibility of performing so-called. the phenomenon of mass psychology, when practically ceases rational judgment and, almost without any economic criteria, sells all or withdraws all deposits, in order to draw some-such money, which brings everything and leads to further deepening of the crisis. The most famous one led to a world-wide financial breakdown and left 26 million people out of work in the last century. These facts need to be remembered with due attention, in order to draw the necessary conclusions from the mistakes made in the past and to warn the worst possible scenario. However, Serbian citizens have no reason to panic and worry, as indicators say, above all, that this global financial crisis cannot be compared by potential to this most famous crisis that has practically led to a financial breakdown, and on the other hand, our country, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not holding its head in the sand and at times when the world of earthquakes is looking for and offering solutions in advance, with the aim of pre-warning possible earthquakes and bad scenarios. And the fact is that Serbia is currently a state in which, when the savings want to raise money from the bank, it gets in full. The estimates suggest that the indirect effects of the global financial crisis in Serbia would be, above all, a reduction in foreign direct investment and credit. In this sense, it is necessary to look for comprehensive, not individual solutions, which would, above all, mean a certain suppression of public spending, i.e. It is necessary for consumption to grow slower than economic growth, which, by the way, according to the prime minister's announcements, from the expected 7% this year, in the next fall to 4% and perhaps something below, depending on the weight of the external circumstances. The government announced taking such measures yesterday after the IMF talks ended. In parallel right away, it is also necessary to transfer public expenditure in favour of capital investments, which means investing in the future, such as the extremely significant investment of Corridor 10, for which four billion euros will be allocated in the next four years, according to the announcements of the resorient minister, Mr Mrkonjic. Certainly, strengthening Serbia's banking system is one of the elements of the government's response to unfavourable global financial movements and that the return of the withdrawn roles and full confidence of citizens in our banking system is resolved by measures that strengthen trust in the system, which are certainly the proposed laws in that area: the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, the law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act and the law amending and supplementing the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation law and the insurance company. The basic reasons for the adoption of the proposed laws are quite clear, and as the proposer himself stated in his explanation, psychological factors have primarily caused the need to provide investor security and adapt to the deposit insurance system in countries in the environment and EU countries, with the aim of increasing our system's readiness to respond to the situation of a very unfavourable scenario. On this basis, it is perfectly logical and good solutions in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act. First, to extend the deposit insurance system, in addition to the currently foreseen natural persons and to the deposits of entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized legal persons; secondly, to increase the amount of the secured deposit from the current 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros, with the possible possibility, in Article 4 of this law, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to achieve financial stability, would increase the amount secured by this law, and based on the previous opinions of the NBS. In this way, the coverage of depositors, due to the current savings structure in Serbia, would be even slightly over 99% and would mean a safe effect in terms of raising confidence in our banking system. Of course, the other two draft laws offer solutions to the same objective, and part of it is intended to achieve compliance with other laws governing this area, and in particular with the law governing deposit insurance and the law governing banks. First of all, the proposed solutions go in the direction and intend to make the financial system of the Republic of Serbia as stable as possible and enable the government of the Republic of Serbia to react effectively and in good time in the conditions of the present financial crisis, co-ordinated with the NBS. Thus, Article 1 of the proposed law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act empowers the Agency to apply measures, such as covering potential losses, taking over, buying and obtaining bad activity and managing this activity and towards banks where the Republic of Serbia is not a shareholder, which means according to all banks. This is a clear message to all depositors, citizens who, when making a decision, at least to the vast majority, did not distinguish the deposit of money in the bank whether it was a bank in which the Republic of Serbia is a shareholder or a bank with another ownership structure, and in terms of the security of their deposited roles, which is absolutely good and in the spirit of the objective of this set of laws. It is about this solution, and in order to ensure its better conductivity, and in the hope that it will never come to full application, I would like to express certain dilemmas and issues, with a desire to have them immediately and as clearly explained as possible: which body, institution, when and by what act determines which banks, in their business, endanger financial stability, or what degree of threat should it be to apply the proposed provision in Article 1, which enables the Deposit Insurance Agency to buy, on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Serbia, the actions of banks that threaten their business with financial stability? Of course, what is the amount of the necessary, or available means from which the possible purchase of actions will be realised, on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, without which, you will agree, this provision will be only on paper and completely inconclusive at times when conditions are acquired in practice for its application? In addition, full agreement will be needed between the proposed measures by the NBS and the intention and vision of the problem by the Government of Serbia, because only so is the possible effect of timely and effective action, as well as the Agency, fully professionally and humanely ready to respond to the obligations under the given conditions of a highly unfavourable scenario. I believe that it is necessary to have a clear view on these topics at this point, if the full effect of this set of laws is to be achieved and thus to remove any doubt about the proposals' intentions. In particular, the proposed provisions of the third law set, and the amendments and additions to the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation laws and insurance companies, are further aimed at contributing to further strengthening trust in the banking system through the equalisation of bank depositors in bankruptcy and liquidation banks in respect of the right to pay off the secured deposit, which has not been the case so far, and is prescribed in Article 4. It's a bill of law. In addition, Article 26 of the Law introduces the obligation of the liquidator, in the process of emergency liquidation of banks, as well as in the process of voluntary liquidation of banks, to organise, within the time limits laid down by the law governing deposit insurance, the collection of these deposits on the burden of liquidation mass, before the payment of other creditors without the obligation to submit applications by depositors secured within the meaning of the law governing deposit insurance. Realising with full seriousness the importance and necessity of the solutions offered by the provisions of this set of laws, in the context of current problems in the financial market and the need to strengthen confidence in Serbia's banking system, as well as the willingness of the Government of Serbia to now respond to possible problems and issues in the area of functioning of Serbia's financial market in the future, the SPS-JS parliamentary club will vote for the proposed set of laws in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7187	The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have three legislative projects before us proposing the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. One of the reasons why these three legislative projects, according to the finance minister, are necessary is the economic and financial crisis in the world that will also be translated into the space of the Republic of Serbia. In the current performances of the current government, by the president of the state, the Prime Minister in particular, the finance minister, the governor of the National Bank and other state officials, we could not hear a single spoken word of the crisis. Mostly there were stories about a stable economic and financial system and what's going on in the rotten West, that's their problem, we live here without any fear of being affected by an economic or financial crisis. Now suddenly, in light of the proposal, the three laws of the crisis and, according to the finance minister, which goes from liquidity to trust. It will all be caused by the reduction of in-credit inflows and other problems that will arise in the economic and financial sphere. We need to open a story here and clearly tell Serbian citizens that we live in difficult economic, economic, monetary, social conditions and the crisis will hit this country far more than it will be present in the West. Why? It is a matter of certain speculative business of the Western financial circles that had to come into this position that caused the financial system to break. The economic system, which is, among other things, the result and the financial system, will not feel that burden as much as we will feel here. Why? Because the monetary mass here is far less than it is in the west. In any case, banks operating in Serbia will have fewer resources available to pump into the economy and economy than will be the case in the west. The recession, the assessment of Western economists, can last for one to two years, and those coming out of recession, and with us, the recession, but even rougher said, the failure of the economic and financial system, is a pain that will last longer. When we talk about these three legal projects, we have to say that they're in a formal sense, and I'm starting from the formal side, very badly normically placed the elements of all three laws. What am I based on my claim? I will start with the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, Article 3 says - The Agency shall carry out the tasks of compulsory insurance of natural persons' deposits in accordance with the law governing deposit insurance. Look, this law, regardless of the set of the same, related laws and one institution wrote them, most likely the legal service of the National Bank, is not in line. Why? Because in Article 2(2) of the Amendment to the Deposit Insurance Act, the treatment of natural persons is deleted and entrepreneurs are inserted. So, besides the physical faces of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The one who wrote the proposal for this law failed to do so in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. They didn't take this seriously. It's important for us to come out politically right now with certain promises, and what in the normative sense follows, it's not relevant at all. It doesn't matter what the law says, it's important that we get out politically when there's a crisis in the world and we say, now let's go, if the whole of Europe has so far had insurance of 20,000 euros, we're at 50. We have the basis, we have the base, we have the Republic, we have the money, and we can vouch for the citizens' deposits. So, the one who wrote, and went, I say, right away, through the National Bank, and the Deposit Insurance Agency, and the Ministry of Finance, and the Government, and professional services in the Assembly and committees of the Assembly, etc., and it remains undetected and passed as a law. In fact, what it means to us is that it passes as a law when we don't apply it and we don't use all the opportunities that the law gives us. Furthermore, as regards Article 9. The law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and in 2005 I took a critical look back. Why? Because a member of the 9th law of 2005 was prescribed a 90-91 law when we had that federal deposit insurance agency, recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. Look at what it says in Article 9, and the finance minister would have to accept it as one reality and accept everything we tried through the amendments to make a correction to this law, in a member of the 9th parent law adopted here at the Council of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, stands - the Agency in accordance with the Act of Government. Nowhere in the law mentions any government act, no government function. So we've rewritten it. We literally rewritten a copying school, put it into this article, and it went through and through. Now we haven't taken the opportunity to make it right. But more important than this normative failure is a real and functional failure. I will say which, the Agency says, in accordance with the Act of Government, can take the following measures with the banks of Article 7 of this Law: 1) to cover potential losses; 2) to take over, buy or otherwise acquire a bad activity; 3) to manage a bad activity and sell that activity. Look, these are the activities of the recovery process. It used to be done at the Bank Rehabilitation Agency and deposit insurance. Now you can't, the bank's in bankruptcy, the bank's in liquidation, there's no recovery. This is where you predict a recovery, it's gone. By the concept of the 2005 law, you've thrown out a recovery, the bank goes bankrupt. It has to disappear from this law. We've proposed amendments to erase it. In Article 5, I have to read it too -- banks are obliged to deposit natural persons, again -- natural persons; you have foreseen the bill and you have not corrected it. You missed the normative one again. Generally, when we talk about the previous law, amendments and additions to the deposit insurance law and the Deposit Insurance Agency, the SRS considers that we must not separate from the insurance of large enterprises. If we said we would secure deposits and pay off deposits if the bank went bankrupt, the Agency would present and pay off deposits to natural persons, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises. We can't break the Constitution. There's got to be big businesses. It's very important who's in the system of our big company. Public enterprises, public utility companies. In this case, we will protect small and medium-sized enterprises that are private, and large enterprises, which are generally the largest in the state property, we do not protect them. Is there a financial and monetary system to protect public and public-communal enterprises if we don't put them here? It doesn't exist, so we have to do it. That is why we have proposed that in the amendments, when we talk about legal and physical persons that must be protected by this insurance system, mandatory installation, alongside small and medium-sized enterprises, and large enterprises. When we talk about the function of the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, we must say that, according to the provisions of the law, there are very large powers, and a small number of workers and, as a rule, this state institution, which has very great powers and great legal opportunities, there are no quality people, there are not even a number of people who can handle this number of jobs that have been given to it by the Law on the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks. In Article 3. The 2005 law says - in addition to deposit insurance operations, it also performs the following tasks, performs the office of bankruptcy and winding-up manager in banks and insurance companies. So, somewhere since 2001, we've shut down a 70-acre bank from the banking system, we've shut down 20 insurance companies. It's a huge number. All of this was one minute in agreement with the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, about 30 workers. Of those 30 workers, only 10 workers with high professional training. So, they do insurance jobs, they do bankruptcy and liquidation jobs in banks and insurance companies, they participate in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, we have eight banks for now, we have where the majority owner of the Republic of Serbia is, we have 15 banks where we still have a percentage of less than 50%. It organises and implements the process of selling the shares of these banks, organises and implements the privatisation process of social, i.e. state capital in insurance companies and carries out other tasks established by law. Very large powers, and a small number of people, etc. But behind all this, there's a reason why it was done like that. The entire monetary and financial sphere has fallen to two people, since 2000, to two people, Dinkic and Jelasic, a small governor, a small finance minister, now a minister of economy and regional development, and in this second case the governor of the National Bank. We do what we want. First, we started from the start of the rescue, six months of the big four banks, and then we drove them into bankruptcy and liquidation. The bankruptcy and liquidation of these banks, in fact, have not yet come into the liquidation process, and the bankruptcy is still going on for six years. In these six years, we've violated the provisions of the bankruptcy law, numerous laws. The bankruptcy had to be over. Why did we do that? We only made it to please the Ministry of Industry and Privatisation, then Minister Vlahovic, who hastened his privatisation process, and the direct cause was Sartid. We know, we've heard a lot of times about this pay phone about what happened to Sartide. Why did we write off a billion dollars to these banks they invested in Sartide? Written down, everything is currently being conducted in a bankruptcy procedure, and it'll probably be another five or six years, and then we'll end the failed recovery. But the effect was achieved, privatisation was made, someone put huge funds in his pocket. And who was behind all this? Now it's five people, not two, besides the previous two, we have Minister Vlahovic, we have Djelic and there's Labus, long forgotten, creator, then president of the Deposit Insurance, Rehabilitation and Banks Council. Directly by his decision in the process that was meant to lead to the recovery of the banking system, as it is done in the West, as it is done in America, we try to resuscitate if we have the elements, we have brought into position, by decision of the Council, which was headed by Labus, we have decided to open the bankruptcy procedure over these four banks, and later, here today we have 17 banks that are in bankruptcy, we have three in the liquidation process, etc., we have lost huge financial capital, which was the capital of these banks, we have lost over eight thousand people who worked in that banking system, it's a banking elite. By this decision and by these decisions, we have destroyed the banking system. Today, the banks are doing the same number of people he used to work for, but the qualification structure fits, but the professional structure, people with experience, with knowledge, have overcome all the shipwrecks we've had since the blockades, since the war, since the second war, from financial indifference, from borrowing by various banks, through which the signs of islands, but the banking system survived and has suffered all the blockades. Then when the state was supposed to invest in it, no, just for private interests. Five people have to answer and eventually they'll be responsible for what they did in the banking system. We say today we have a healthy banking system, but we destroyed the previous one. In financial terms, we've lost a terrible lot. Here, just in terms of Sartide, we have a billion and 200 million, what's gone, it's gone, it's gone, no one mentions it anymore. Someone has had these resources, and they've been used in a certain way, these funds, they're gone now. And where are the other banks? Now, look, a court-order procedure, it's so long to get lost. And what happens in practice? On the Deposit Insurance Agency website you can see it almost every 10-15 days, we sell it from this bank, so on this bank, etc. We're inn, we're out, we're out, we're out, because we don't have a system. How do we close the banking system? How to get rid of that burden that used to be a system of banking, which, no matter what, played a very important role in the most difficult moments for this country, survived in the 1990s. It was a huge number of banks, that was an explanation. These bankers, they create every month 10 million marks, those marks, and they were some means that were allocated to it, etc., so on and so forth. That was an explanation. The decision that Labus made, on the one hand, and Dinkic, on the other hand as governor of the National Bank, was not backed by a real study of why he destroyed the banking system in the way it was destroyed. That destruction lasts today. The value of assets estimated at several billion euros has been defused, it has been sold ad hoc, donated, donated, etc. Now it's all decomposed. The total value of the sale, leased is about 700-800m euros, a meaningless sum compared to what the banking system was worth. We're out of it. And what do we have? We have foreign banks here, which sell us the most expensive capital in Europe, and perhaps in the world. When we say that our banking system is safe and stable, it is, because all banks in the West have terrible competition, they fight for a percent or two, they fight for promiscuity. We here have a comfortable ten, 15%, and even 20% interest rate, and we have a fee. (President: Time.) I'm done. Just because these banks are selling, as a rule, are now foreign banks, expensive loans, we have a situation that they are now stable, but the question is how long they will be stable, until we can blink to pay so much interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7189	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the DSS, Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7190	Dear fellow Vice-President, Madam Minister, respected colleagues, is finally on the agenda a set of laws promised as part of a measure to reduce the effects of the global economic crisis. We agree that there is a crisis and we agree that these measures must be comprehensive. It has been announced that there will be many different measures to regulate all segments of the banking and economic sectors and population-related problems. But this is the first line of law. We, in any case, welcome this set as a set of measures. We had a chance to hear last night, and also this morning at a press conference that an arrangement was made with the IMF and that arrangement implies a number of things. We've heard some of it, and we'll probably have a chance to hear it in the days ahead. I must note that as if there was an agreement between the mission, i.e. the IMF delegation and the opposition in Serbia, because everything the opposition indicated during the debate on budget rebalancing were key things that the IMF insisted on being a condition for the conclusion of this arrangement. We had only seven days, they had 21 days, but they were obviously much more convincing negotiators than the opposition in the Serbian Parliament. I welcome what Mrs. Minister said. She pointed out the two most important things that await us in the period ahead -- that's savings and that's trust. We'll see the savings in the budget, and trust is the trust we need to restore to the banking system, the trust we need to restore to the institutions. Let's look at trust. The colleagues have already talked about the story about this agency law and the deposit, whether it should be 3,000, 7,500, 20,000 or some other figure, and I would like to remind you that on October 31st here in the Assembly, the DSS Parliament Club suggested that it be formed, that the Assembly form a committee that should deal with all aspects of the possible crisis and all the measures to be taken. And then we suggested, and today we think that -- in order to reduce the effects of this crisis, all the factors in the country have to be involved, there would have to be consensus with all the groups. Our MP group, the DSS parliamentary group, then suggested that a possible loan should be considered to ensure the stability of the course. The minister said we wouldn't ask for funds, and that same day, about the same time, it was about seven o'clock at night, there were stenographic notes, somehow struck at the same time, that the Prime Minister said that the arrangement, there was an archive of news, it was only about the budget, and that no financial resources were needed. Two days later news appears in the newspaper -- that a possible loan is already being negotiated to defend the budget. We've received information that they're exactly dealing with that $500 million figure, which is part of an IMF arrangement and that will be withdrawn, these are reserved funds, just in case it's necessary to defend the course. We considered it then, and we now believe that in the period ahead of us, the defence course will be extremely important for overall stability. So much for trust. I don't know if it's a problem for us to hear the opposition, listen to some of the suggestions, which can show that they're correct, and we respect them. We have a few laws ahead of us. The first law defines the deposit to be raised from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros. There are three sources that guarantee that deposit. The minister said two, they're a mandatory reserve, a deposit insurance fund, and if those two sources aren't enough, they'll probably have to jump the budget. I sincerely hope we never get into that situation. As for the mandatory reserve, it covers 40% of these funds, but the Deposit Insurance Fund is only 74m euros. That's a statement Mr. Ilic made in one newspaper, I assume it's true. If the total deposit is about 90%, then it's not hard to figure out that they're dealing with a figure of about five, five comas of a billion, depending on how much savings it is. There's obviously a certain difference. Article 4 of this Act gives the possibility that, if there is a need, we will again guarantee 99.9% of all those roles and a huge percentage of savings measured by around 80%, and then say - if there is a need, then the Government will raise that deposit in agreement with the National Bank, or with the consent of the National Bank. Can we assume today that this need exists? What are the reasons that will exist or what should happen to raise that deposit? Why is this done by the government's agreement and decision? Why isn't that the subject of the law? If there are no financial effects per budget, then that's one thing, but how do we guarantee deposits? I guess we guarantee the deposits because there's a problem and one of the banks has a problem paying off those funds? If there's no problem, then the law isn't necessary. If there's a problem, then obviously there's no funds and it's impossible that the financial effects are zero. On the other hand, the budget says there are no financial effects. Every citizen of ours knows that if he goes and takes that loan, what's it called a cash loan or as a loan for an apartment -- that there must be a guarantee, and that guarantee always has a price. Only if the Republic of Serbia guarantees something, then it has no effect on the budget and that kind of guarantee has no price - which is a very interesting solution. We have a bill to guarantee the stability of the system in case any of the banks get into trouble. It is possible that the Deposit Insurance Agency can buy the shares of these banks at the expense of the Republic of Serbia. That's of course on the government's proposal, with the consent of the National Bank. As far as buying this kind is concerned, it is clear that transparency must be complete -- the question is at what price will be bought, how will be bought. One of the basic questions is how to control the whole process. On the Agency's website, and most of the government's bodies or virtually all of them have their own website, and there are a number of data from where we can basically get all the data, or a large number of data that are interesting, and this agency's website is quite unsupervised, but it seems to me that according to the data that I have -- this agency still doesn't have a board of directors. I don't know if I'm right, but we'll hear, I guess, if that's true. If the Agency doesn't have a board of directors, who can control and what body is it, everything and everything is fine, what body will control it properly? We, of course, suggested that one of these be deleted. As far as we're concerned, it's always possible to regulate everything by law. Any law that helps the stability of the system can be adopted in this assembly within a very short period of time -- much faster than it takes time to deliver the decision to the government, that the government requires the consent of the NB, that the NB do so in agreement with the governor, the Council or any other body. It is interesting to note that colleagues from G17 plus there had two very interesting amendments. We believe that the amendments are very good and that you should consider accepting them. One amendment says that the 90-day deadline has been reduced to 30 days. If all is well, if there are deposits with the NB, if there are no other additional financial resources needed to pay off, if there is no need to burden the budget with all these things, we do not see any reason not to further strengthen the stability of the banking system and not start payments within three days without ending within 30 days. This guarantee is complete and we fully guarantee the stability of the system. What is missing at this point, which is extremely important and which, unfortunately, we can't hear, and we can't even see from the law because they're still not in the process, in which we're going to react to all those hidden elements and hidden risks that can expect us. I think we've been through the first stroke of the crisis. I think, with this IMF intervention and this loan and the stability of the course will be secured in some period ahead of us. But the basic question is what will happen to the real sector, with all those weaknesses in the real sector, and indirectly to the population. The population is in charge of 334 billion dinars, and the economy is in charge of 650 billion, plus 10.7 billion euros in foreign debts. Next year, the economy comes to more than three billion euros for payment. In these conditions, when it is completely realistic to expect that demand will be reduced, when many factories are closed and they are forced to rest, not in Serbia to such a large extent as is happening in Romania, Hungary and as is happening in other countries, if that happens, in what way the economy will serve the debts and how we will react. We can say, well, the economy was in debt, not the business of the state, especially in these systems, to worry about what happens to the economy. But if the problem becomes major, if the problem is overrun by the financial sector, then a complete financial system can again be compromised. We are interested in seeing how all these measures will be defined and when they will arrive. My colleagues will talk about the measures taken by countries that are affected and not affected by the crisis. You'll see that most of the world's countries have already made very serious plans in different areas to reduce all these elements. We've only seen one element and it's the one that guarantees the deposit, and nothing else about the economy and the real sector. The crisis may have been an excuse for unfulfilled pre-election promises. But it's unlikely we couldn't sense the recession six or seven months ago when those promises were made. To accept that it may not have been clear then, but seven days ago an extended collective contract was signed. Did we know there was a crisis then? Did we know there was going to be financial problems then? Then what are the signatures that everyone knows will never be realized for? Is this a serious approach to such serious problems? We expect to get to the budget, and together with the budget, we'll get all these measures. We have amendments to these laws. We do, and we will support the amendments to some other parliamentary clubs. We believe that there are good amendments that can remove the shortcomings of these laws. And in relation to the outcome or depending on the fate of these amendments, we will decide how we will vote on these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7191	I'm sorry, the system's not working. I'm taking a break from ten minutes. Since the system is running, we can continue our work without a break. I apologize to Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Aligrudic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7192	Article 27 refers to you, Mr. Vice President. If you take a break, then the break is given. The moment any of the MPs left the room because you took a break, he now lives in a belief, out there in the hallway, that the break is going on. It means it's not fair. If a break is given for ten minutes, there must be a break for ten minutes, so we continue the work. I'm sorry, it's really not fair, even if one MP left the gym because he heard you took a break for ten minutes. Please respect that. If you answer me positively to this question, then I will withdraw from the pay phone, and if I don't, then I will proceed on this second basis, by which I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7193	Then I'll honor the rest. We've got seven minutes left. [[After break – 12.55]] Thank you for your patience. We're continuing our work. The word has an authorised representative of the LDP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7195	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, what would we discuss in a more serious atmosphere about these laws when the government itself did not do so? These laws, like the government's economic policy, are about the same as everything that happens during the afternoon here in the assembly. The system works, the system doesn't work, the break is given, and no pause is given, but we'll be on our way in seven minutes faster than seven minutes ago. I thought we'd start this debate in conversation with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, who was our talker during the last debate on some of the measures we now recognize in the government's initiatives, but in the meantime, the Secretary of State is gone and we're not going to get far with this kind of work. As we understand it, the amendments and additions to these laws are actually about laws that are part of a package of economic measures that the Serbian Government, with great delay, promoted at one of the press conferences at which we saw the Prime Minister as well. We had him when the government was elected and after that we never saw him here in the congregation. We didn't see it when the banal issues were discussed, such as the adoption of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Serbia-Russian Federation energy agreement, the catastrophic budget rebalancing, so it's gone now. It would be good if we were just a precedent in the world on this matter, unfortunately we're not. An explanation for the adoption of a law on amendments and additions from the laws we're talking about today, which are three laws, I mean the Deposit Insurance Act, the argument is sad. If you, Mrs Dragutinović, don't read these laws, then why do we even adopt them? It explains that the reason for amending the Deposit Insurance Act is because of the need to harmonise domestic legislation with country legislation in the environment and EU countries. Since it appeared here in the meantime, when the need to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation was revealed, and might there be a list of necessary laws in this harmonisation process that we could remove this very law from at the moment? I think that argument is hypocritical, especially if you look at the explanation in one of these three laws that we're also talking about. The reason for this is now mentioned in the financial crisis, and the difficult economic situation, and then it is actually clear that the government is doomed to failure, even when it brings some proper economic measures, because it is a government without a clear political vision and concept. We have spoken with you, Mr Ilic, here at a session of the Finance Committee, which was called to protect Serbia from the irresponsible MPs of the opposition who have done what all the responsible MPs in all the parliaments of the normal countries on this planet have done before. Then, among other things, we from the LDP proposed an increase in the amount of the secured deposit from three thousand euros to 10,000 euros. Some parliamentary groups have proposed an amount of 20,000 euros, but none of the other topics are important because they remain in the other plan ahead of your response to such a thing. That's when you said it was unnecessary. I know very well what you said, that we don't do too much of those estimates that this crisis won't have any special effects and your lessons that you've taught us about the differences between investment banks and classic banks, and we've listened to that. But here we are now where we are, and we'd like to help you, because we think that these are situations where, not because you personally need help, far from it, I don't think you're happy about this, quite the opposite, but let's see where there's room for a deal on overcoming these problems that are unfortunately much deeper and more serious than those currently being talked about. Because you and we both know very well that the cause of these economic problems is not only disturbed relationships in the world and this global financial crisis, but, unfortunately, unfinished or incorrectly implemented reforms in a country that turn these internal economic opportunities into a big generator and bomb that we sit on. An IMF deal has been made. This isn't about talking about him. The problem is that the state also shows ambition to save, but by tightening the belt, the citizens will. On the other hand, there is a very irresponsible inflation assessment, a high inflation rate of 8%. We don't agree with that, it's not a subject. Let's start with this law on amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. One member, after point 3) of point 4 in which it is said to buy on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. All right. Where are the funds for the purchase of shares, as well as where are they in the rebalancing of the budget of deposit insurance funds raised to 50,000 euros? We'd like to get an answer to that question. Are those funds isolated somewhere, are they in a mandatory reserve, will those funds be withdrawn from a loan, will those funds be withdrawn from the foreign reserve? It's simple, we'd like to know where the funds were allocated for deposit insurance, how does that work out? The second very serious question is a question of the criteria on which the realisation of such a great right is based. The government will adopt an act, the governor will propose, and can we know the criteria? We have examples of bank takeover at this point, but there are criteria, not all banks, some banks fail. Where's the difference between "Fani May", "Fredi Mac" and "Lemon Brothers"? Where does that difference start and stop, or why do so different treatments, there's a state capital somewhere, it's nowhere to be found? What's our government's interest in taking over management and buying stock banks that are failing? Is this stabilising economic opportunities in the country, stabilising that financial market? How effective are such measures? Can we get some projection of all this? What happens if only the state suspends these negative trends for a short time, and then it becomes a problem that is greater than the problems of previous owners? Who will then buy out the government of the Republic of Serbia, who bought out an irresponsible bank or bank that was killed because of these disturbed market relations? Is there a difference between banks with state capital and private banks? Is there a difference between private banks owned by our citizens who have our capital or is that the measure that applies to each bank? I come from Vienna, there is a conference organised by the Unicredit Bank, trying to convince (I apologize, I don't mean anything bad about Unicredit here in Serbia, but it's very difficult to talk about financial problems rather than mention those that are part of the problem), but Unicredit Bank organised an international conference in Vienna to convince Bank Austria that the situation is stabilised and there is no problem with the money they have in that bank. They have a great right to do something like that, since the Austrian state has decided to secure deposits in Austrian banks to an absolute extent. Are these banks here with us domestic banks or are they foreign banks? We know that answer - it's domestic banks. Now we're dealing with a demagogue problem that we must respond to together. Why are we representing the citizens of that bank as foreign banks, and they're actually domestic banks? For example, they are represented by the National Bank, represented by the current economy minister, who was once the governor of the National Bank. Trust in the banking system was restored not by telling citizens to stabilise our domestic banking system but by sending people a message that these banks, which in Serbia are banks that actually build their reputation on those who and these banks, were crucial. Now their founders have no obligation to the banks here. In particular, some Austrian banks have tried to push through the initiative, asking their country to secure deposits in other countries in banks that are the founders of the Austrian bank. That didn't go away. Now we want to get an analysis of the measures and effects of such a decision that the state of Serbia takes, not to say problematic management, but one problematic state, protecting ourselves in a way that we can't assume how, we can only talk in general, and we can't get an answer to the question of who's actually protecting ourselves behind all of this, as we can't get a whole other set of answers to the questions that put us in the situation that we're currently living in. Where's our foreign reserve, the governor tells us - I said that on RTS. So since panic is the element we're keeping in mind, let's not talk about these reserves and where they are, and under what conditions, and how much they're operational, and how many foreign reserves are in the full sense of foreign exchange reserves, and how many are actually foreign reserves that are formed by temporarily being taken away from the money of banks that function here in the market through the form of various deposits. Where's the money for these 50,000 euros in insurance? Where's that money? That's what you have to say, maybe it's invisible, but it's very important and we want to know the answer to that question. If that doesn't matter, then it doesn't matter why we're going to 50,000 euros, if you yourself told us it was rational what we talked about last time, and that's 3,000 euros. We'd like to pass the laws and explain the difference, Madam Minister, between you and the Minister of Finance and us as politicians. We'd like to adopt laws that can be applied. That's the difference between you and us. We would like to adopt laws that we can stand behind, not laws that will be just a letter on paper, because it may be a matter of credibility of our institutions, a second-rate issue in this daily chaos. No one argues to you that you really wanted to pay people 1,000 euros per share, and that you were really willing to pay pensioners 70 percent of your salary and that you were really well-intentioned when you signed a collective contract that you knew in advance that you wouldn't apply it. No one argues that you would do everything best for this country, the problem is that the government must not cheat on its society, because we are now facing a situation in which we need first of all an understanding of the citizens. And why would people trust us today if we cheated on them yesterday? So when we talk about where the basis is for these changes in the law, we think about politics, not money. We want to make sure that our country can apply this law at any time. I know that it is vital for you that you disobeyed the Constitution and the law and handed it over to Parliament, in line with the very precise deadlines, the draft budget for next year. There are objective reasons for that. But believe me, there are equally objective reasons on the side of some other man who may not want to pay taxes within the legal deadline, so if you say anything because we broke the law, why can't every other citizen in this country say that - nothing because we broke the law. Nothing because we signed a collective agreement with the unions and promised the unions 7,000 dinars a raise, although we know that 90,000 people have a work book, and there's no job. All of this when you put on the side of 20 years of chaos, then together we have to ask the question of the potential and the resources that we have at this point. That is why we need a prior agreement based on which you would have the right to take these measures, because what makes it different to your initiative to take over banks that have problems and thus stabilise opportunities, which is absolutely legitimate and good, but what makes your initiative different from any other normal initiative in the world is a lack of consensus and agreement. Those simple images in which two presidential candidates stand next to each other and send one message to their society, which is what we ask of you, at least LDP, we don't want to trip you into it, but you don't let us be partners in solving these problems. You were not prepared to share with us the responsibility for defining policy, but there will be a willingness to share responsibility for the consequences of such a policy. That's what this is about, it's the biggest problem for us. What about the rest of the government's economic measures? You should know when we got the message when that press conference was held: a month ago. In the normal world, the effects of measures taken are being analysed, and we are only now discussing a partial package of government measures. What about tax cuts? When's that gonna be up? When will the taxes be lifted? Why isn't it there now? So we can't say that this is one serious policy, this is an attempt to make ends meet in circumstances that are temporary and thus uncertain. We support your agreement with the IMF and we find it useful, and we support a projected deficit of 1.5%. There may be some reason for an inflation of 8%. We think it'd be better if it was 2%, but maybe for that, let's say, there are some arguments. We don't know them. No one's ever told them. We read the news, we see that the government is being blackmailed, that it's being patched up as who knows and can, and eventually some deal has been made, but the realisation of that agreement depends primarily on society's willingness to endure the pressures that will be exposed through the application of that agreement. Society can't be successful if, say, someone decides to point at the fact that they're now frozen salaries. You didn't give us a chance to participate in this together and to do it together. That's the basic problem. We have proposed a debate on economic policy in the country, not with the ambition to say, Minister, give the money, but to say we have agreed on people in this situation about what needs to be done. No problem, we'll support the amendments to these laws. It's the least controversial. But I'm telling you, if we make laws, give us arguments that we can tell people tomorrow that these laws will apply. We don't have that now. Yesterday there was a minister of diaspora defending the law on public procurement. He doesn't need us to defend him. We want that law, but if the government so shows respect for that law, then everything else goes down the water. You've got to figure it out for yourselves. You'll get support for all of this, because we assume that everything will be the way we want it to be, but I'm asking you in advance what's going to happen in situations where the bank's now taking over, who's sitting on the board of directors of the bank that's being taken over (do you know what the boards of banks look like? What are the political ties between the boards of directors and those in power? What's the structure of the capital? What country does that capital come from? What is the relationship between these states to these banks, at the same time and to us? Is there any possibility of a partnership in commitment? It's all big questions. We don't get an answer for that. As for the idea that this delay will change this policy, I hope it will instill the necessary confidence in the citizens and only we can tell them from here that unfortunately the Government cannot do anything alone, nor will the LDP that supports you, that at this point the crucial stability of our banking sector depends on understanding people for this simple fact that these banks are resting on the money they deposited in them. There's not a single banking system in the world that wouldn't swing if someone pulled all the foreign savings, and we have to tell people, and we have to convince them together that the money in those banks will be safe, that the dinar savings won't be devalued, and that our central bank will start running a different policy. She's now trying to reverse the damage she's making with her government measures. Euribor is 4.50 almost 4.60 - down, and our reference interest rate has gone to 17%. Where's the difference? The difference is that the central bank defends the value of the dinars, and that value is threatened by the government's measures, by an inflationary budget rebalancing. That 17%, how much is a high dinar loan in this country? What kind of business can a man do in our business to serve a 20% interest loan? If the exporter kills him policy course because he's not competitive, if the exporter kills him the price of capital because he can't withdraw that capital from abroad, because there's no collateral needed, and here it's terribly expensive. We have a structural problem. I know you're aware of him, but we need to talk about it and about offering a common answer. If you come before us and suggest to us, no problem, we'll say, people, we voted, we left the government with economic policy, so let the government share responsibility for these measures. We're not responsible for such a thing. That's what we experienced in the 1990s. It doesn't matter who's talking now. The least important is the incredible similarity between the message that sanctions will act stimulatingly on our economy and the message we hear from the government now that the global economic crisis will act favourablely on our internal economic relations, because it will speed up reforms, and foreign investors are waiting at a low start to come to this paradise from Serbia, where everything is right. The courts are efficient and independent. Politics is in parliament and parties, and the economy is left to the business world. Since none of this is the way it's supposed to be, we suggest that we agree on a way to share responsibility for the country in such large and important issues. The support of your laws is not controversial, but everything else is a big problem. Not because we don't understand something and you're surprised at the questions we're asking you, we're just quoting citizens who went to banks, convinced they're foreign banks... (Chairman: Please close. )......................................................................................................... Let's get this over with. Half the room wasn't here, including the secretary of state, when you gave me your word. Because you can't behave differently than the Government, which is government and not government, we have a session, we don't have a session, we have laws and we need to be happy because we bring them in to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation. We are just setting up harmonisation in the area of deposits, not in another important issue, which, for example, is very negatively spoken in the European Commission report, which is censored in the form of counterfeits offered to MPs here during yesterday. These are our problems. You have our support, if that means anything to you, but unfortunately I expect answers from you that we could tell people. Answers that people can understand. Answers that mean something and which are more than just calls for assets and balances that are known to the governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7196	The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. He's getting a word over the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I get my word on the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the members of 225 and 226, and I need the information that is important for the work of this assembly and for all the MPs in it. We received information that the government reached an agreement with the IMF and after that we received information that disappointed all pensioners, because it is clear that in the next 2009 pensioners will not get an increase in pensions from those 70% of the average personal income, which was the pre-election promise of the SPS-PUPS-JS coalition, and then when the government that took that promise was formed, it was also the government's promise. In the meantime, I have to say that pensions have increased linearly by 10%, and that's the only thing that's certain they'll stay for next year when it comes to pensioners. If we look at the structure and income of pensioners now, we will see that more than 58 pensioners, of those 1,600,000 pensioners in Serbia, receive pensions that are less than 20,000. Of that, 9.44% of pensioners receive pensions up to 9.715 dinars. If we look at that pension has been increased linearly, they have received a maximum increase of 2,000 in this structure up to 20,000. If we look at this category up to 10,000, they get about 400 to 970 dinars. I have to say that another category of pensioners who receive pensions up to 30,000 is also large and that the total number of pensioners who receive pensions up to 30,000 is 90% of those 1.600,000. If we look now that all the prices have increased dramatically in this country, the energy of over 60%, food, diet and non-alcoholic drink, according to the structure we received today, Serbia behind Latvia has raised the most prices in the past year. We have an increase in clothing and shoes that is also the largest in Europe. We've got a phone that's been picked up three times, traffic and everything. The point is that the 10% pensioners already have no, they ate inflation and ate up the purchases. On the other hand, let's look at this structure that's over 30,000 and see what's interesting about it. If I look at that category that receives pensions from 40,000 to 90, which is a category of just 10% pensioners, we'll see that their linear increase is much larger, from 4,000 to 9,000, which means that in this category it's over 4,000, that they're about 9,000, which is about the pension of the one that receives the minimum pension. I'm interested to know how much of Mr. Krkobibic's pension increase is. It's a data that's very interesting. I'll ask you one more question. That's why I answered. An increase in excise duty has been announced for next year's fuel. We know that the price of fuel in the world has dropped drastically throughout the moment and that it is at a level of several years ago, although prices at our pumps do not say that, an increase in the excise duty on fuel has been announced and will likely apply since 1 January 2009. My question is, is it an announced increase in excise duties directly related to the problem of budgeting, because it's obvious that next year we won't be able to fill the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7198	You've been talking for a minute. There have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, nor have you asked the question, except in time's overrun. That's what you abused the Rules of Procedure, so please don't do it in the future. The breach of the Rules of Procedure indicates Mr Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7199	Mr President, you must understand that the proposed laws and arguments that have been made with these proposals of the law create the need for MPs to appear in accordance with Article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for without further notice and explanation, we cannot function. What's this about? Serbian citizens should understand that sooner you have to hear on TV and read in the paper some selected information about what is on the agenda than you will find any information that is important in the interpretation of the bill. If I were to pretend to be some Tosha and I'm ignorant now, I could, based on some proposals that are made here to inform the citizens that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting the nationalisation of banks. How? So that banks with foreign capital, due to their poor business if they threaten the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, can be bought out by the Republic of Serbia. This concept can be accepted in some ways, given that such a thing exists as the authority of the Deposit Insurance Agency referred to in Articles 7 to 11. The law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, as the Agency performs tasks for the Republic of Serbia. I have to draw attention to the fact that in one of the previous members, for example, in Article 3 of that same law, they haven't changed anything, other deposits of natural persons, and they're no longer entrepreneurs, not small, not medium-sized enterprises. No one understands what they put into this combination of small and medium-sized enterprises. Why? They're legal faces. Many questions are unclear. Is this nationalisation? Of what? I've ruined banks. How do banks fail? I was just about to suggest that Dinkic go to America to fix the financial market. If you had intervened at the Belgrade Bank and those of our banks seven or eight years ago, none of them would have gone into liquidation and bankruptcy, but that's not over yet. Then the National Savings Bank formed, so the space was divided, so now we need to refinance and worry about something that by who knows which way appears as private property or private funds. (Chairman: Time) You'll have to sit here, not passively and watch the MPs change here, but, if you're already in the O.R., after every MP to come out with the data, to say, the MP is wrong about that and that, and not like this -- past the thunderstorm, I don't care, I can smile, he'll be pleased. No, you'll get here not only small, but much bigger bumps, to see who destroyed that financial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7200	You received your word because you pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Neither did you point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor did you ask the question, but you, like the previous speaker, have misused the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you not to do so in the future. On the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroslav Petkovic points out and gets word over the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7201	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, I am not getting a word over the order, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is what you should be working on, as we are. In favour of today's discussion, I'm advertising a violation of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and ask for a reply from the Minister of Finance in the Government – Mr Cvetkovic is former Finance Minister, so that perhaps we can expect the future prime minister to be Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, and that State Secretary Slobodan Ilic should come to her place – is she familiar with the State Secretary's presentation at the Committee on Finance at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? This is a printed version of the tape from that session and I will read one sentence that Mr. Ilic said: "I would love it when someone tells me -- we want to increase from three thousand euros to whatever it is based on, or it's just a nice story. "I'm interested, so I can keep working, is this what we're talking about today just a nice story or are you really going to intervene, protect the banking system and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7202	Thank you, too. The word of the Rules of Procedure is given to Miss Marina Ragush, who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7203	I'm reporting from an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. It takes an explanation that we, as MPs, could succeed, it is already in Article 225, to do our work. As you had the opportunity to hear, Madam Minister, from previous MPs are all the issues we have been launching for some time and we expected to answer those questions, let's say, that the team for overcoming the effects of the financial crisis in the world in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately, we did not welcome it. So now we are trying to get answers to the questions that our fellow citizens who voted for us regularly ask us. I'm going to go out here with concrete statistical data and I'd like you to possibly give an explanation or an explanation of what the government has, in that context, intended to do. So according to Eurostat, the EU Statistics Agency, the explosive rise in food prices last year has led Serbia to become a European record player in the crowds. According to the same agency, at the price of food and non-alcoholic beverages of 13.4% in 2007, compared to EU countries, we were third. In front of Serbia are Latvia and Slovakia, which in this group alone recorded a 13.7% rise in prices. At the rise in fruit and vegetable prices of 28.5%, Serbia comes first, followed by Bulgaria with a growth of 16%. We predominant in the collection of milk and dairy from 18.3%, the fish cost 11.4%. Last year's record was rising the price of some more food products. Thus, the edible oil in our country was more expensive than the EU average by 6.5% last year. A liter of rabbit in our country was more expensive than in France by 2%, oil was cheaper in Germany last year by 10.5% and in the Netherlands by as much as 57.5%. Compared to the average of our earnings in Serbia, clothes and shoes are extremely expensive. Since we from the media have been informed that the meeting is over, or negotiations with the IMF delegation, and what we understand, perhaps we are wrong, you will correct us there, is that next year the freezing of earnings growth is projected and the proposed average of pensions is 70% of personal incomes. A particular question - what did you foresee for the price increase of broad consumption, and how do you think citizens will be able, with their regular monthly incomes, to withstand the crisis, recession and frantic price growth that is still in the upward path? Thank you, and I apologize for being overstepped.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7204	I ask the service that, with a stenogram of this record, the questions asked by the People's Parliament to forward to the Government, which I also ask to answer within an appropriate short period. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mr Zoran Krasic and received the word, then Mr Milos Aligrudić and Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7205	Mr. Novakovic, you probably didn't hear right. A moment ago, on my way out, I specifically listed all the members of the Rules of Procedure I call upon. They were members of 225, 226 and 136. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In that manner, I'll move on. Why it is necessary for us to have active members of the government at the National Assembly session, not passive observers who will pose on a TV broadcast, to look like they are in Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic. You just heard, a new banking system was formed in our country, thanks to some people who started the operation in 2001. Are these foreign banks, are they domestic banks? On what basis do we have to buy the stock of these banks, when until a few days ago we just listened to how we have the safest banking system on the planet Earth? Over the past month, NBS has intervened with over 300m euros to defend, unsuccessful, dinar courses. Where are the foreign exchange reserves? In accordance with your law, I ask you a question: where are the funds held based on the deposit insurance premium? Let me just remind you that these funds are being managed on a special account by the NBS, that these funds are being formed from a deposit insurance premium paid by banks, and you know that you had to prescribe and pay a tight interest in case of delay. So these successful banks couldn't even pay the insurance premium, so this agency prescribed them to pay and tighten interest. That's the kind of decision you make. Further, revenue from the Investment Fund for Deposit Insurance: funds achieved by the payment of the Agency's claim from the bankruptcy mass of banks, funds provided by borrowing, donations and funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are the resources of the Deposit Insurance Fund. Where can the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund be placed? They may invest in debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia and the NBS, and the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund shall also be invested in foreign securities of value or placed on deposits by foreign banks. Did you, though modest of 70 million or so, invest in a foreign bank on a security deposit, invest in foreign securities of value? Who gives you the right to propose these things as measures to get out of the financial crisis? Who authorized you to keep other people's capital? (President: Time.) I'll get back to you, Mr. Novakovic, because this Rules of Procedure isn't very perfect.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7206	Mr Milos Aligrudic advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7207	I will appeal to Article 226 concerning Article 225, and I will try to explain why I think the rights of Members of Parliament have been violated. On October 8, this year, the DSS parliamentary group submitted to the National Assembly a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, which requested that the amount of deposits from the current 3,000 euros be raised to 20,000 euros. In translation, this means that those citizens who have deposits in banks can be sure to this amount that within the time limit that the law provides for it, which is 90 days, it will be returned, because the state, through the law adopted in the National Assembly, will guarantee their role. Some countries, in a situation of crisis, such as Germany, have raised this amount indefinitely and must have certain coverage for it. Here we were also talking about some of the sources of these covers, which is what my deputy Rade Obradovic also spoke about in the opening statement, which these sources can be. The amount proposed by the DSS of 20,000 euros was such that we took into account all possible sources, so that no objection could be put at the level of the secured amount of deposits. It's not impossible for him to be bigger. On 24 October we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, here we are informed of this, in fact, on this paper, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, which differs from our proposal only at the level of the amount secured. It says it's 50,000 euros. We don't mind, provided that this amount is sustainable, which we can particularly discuss during the day and we'll report to it. When it comes to this, where are our rights violated? Since we submitted our proposal to the National Assembly on 8.10, and the government should be obliged to consider our bill and to give its opinion on this bill, the government has done so in the following way: it first considered its own bill and forwarded it to the National Assembly, and then concluded it, and sent us a notice, that our bill was not accepted. He says this: "At the meeting of October 23rd, the government sets out a proposal to amend and supplement the Deposit Insurance Act, 24th directs it to the National Assembly," and says our proposal is not accepted because the security amount is increasing to 50,000 euros, which will represent an even greater degree of deposit protection. You know how, Madam Minister, if you had a problem, and the law is basically identical, with the amount secured, you could react the following way: by adopting the law in principle and by submitting an amendment by increasing the amount from 20,000 euros to 50,000 euros. That would be consistent with the procedure. (President: Time.) I'm done. What's your mistake? Your mistake is leaving the state of Serbia for three and a half or four weeks without passing this law, which should be a package of measures, which we are not even sure you have in general, to protect the interests of citizens and depositors in Serbia. You did this on purpose, because you are like a government of vanity and do not allow anyone else to be smarter and before you to remember something that is important to the citizens of Serbia. That law would have been in the process a long time ago and voted if you hadn't done this. This violated not only our rights but also the rights of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7208	He has a word to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7209	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, I am taking the opportunity under Article 226 to ask the Minister's particular question: will her State Secretary be having any conconsequences for his statements on both the media and the Finance Committee, when we pointed out that the state should react urgently and that the amount of security deposits of citizens in banks should be increased? On October 8th, the DSS proposed a law to increase deposits to 20,000 euros. The first reaction at the time was that it was unnecessary to panic, that such measures were unnecessary and were not based on any analysis, and we were even told that more than 80% of the savings stakes were covered by the previously secured deposit of up to 3,000 euros and that there was no need for an increase in that amount, so that the government would adopt a bill to increase the security deposit to 50,000 euros. Now it's completely unclear to me -- if your secretary of state, or assistant, told your deputy at that point that it was unnecessary, and that no more secured deposits should be increased, that citizens are insinuated, that they are panicking to raise their stakes in banks, then a much larger security deposit was adopted, and today your deputy is sitting with you here. It is not clear to me whether you are running the same policy and whether the Secretary of State represents your views or whether he has changed those views in the meantime? If he's changed, what kind of coincidence will he be carrying? If he isn't, then he shouldn't be sitting where he is. So, what's the obvious damage, it's that two weeks of your failure has caused such damage that nearly 500m euros has been withdrawn from the banks by the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7210	National MP Marina Ragus receives a word based on Article 100, as it points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so Mr Krasic, and Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7211	Just like the last time, based on an article. 225 and 226. Unfortunately, the time foreseen by these members of the Rules of Procedure is three minutes. You will agree that due to the emerging economic situation, it is very little to present very brutal and concrete statistics that paint Serbia's picture from the end of 2008, which is expected by the 2009 recession, for which we have no answer for how it will survive in 2010 and 2011. Unfortunately, you are here as representatives of the government and likely to be most often bothered by, conditionally speaking, our proposals or our reports. We were expecting a team here to overcome the crisis of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, he's not here. It seems that you are here, after all, the most relevant figures that we will try to torture with concrete statistical data, all in order to overcome the situation, knowing with complete awareness that you are absolutely not the ones directly responsible for the situation that has arisen. I am convinced that you will do your best, even if you will give us timely and qualified answers to what you need to do daily in our parliamentary capacity. So what it is is a continuation of the picture I talked about last time is really a frantic price increase. Citizens, or people in Serbia, cannot, with current monthly revenues, wash out this price hike. Half a million people are below the lower limit and the poverty line. If it is officially established, 8833.00 a month, and 733,000 citizens are unemployed, according to official data, and there will seem to be more. Out of nearly $30 billion of Serbia's total foreign debt next year, 5 billion will be charged, with less than half of Serbia's National Bank of Serbia's foreign reserves. The total external debt of Serbia has increased to nearly $30 billion, which will say that on average on the back of each citizen is now a burden of about $4,000, it is harder by 77% than at the end of 2000, when per capita it was $1,444. Already next year, with all the uncertainty caused by the wave of the global financial crisis, the state, banks and businesses are required to return about five billion dollars to foreign creditors. In particular, according to the National Bank of Serbia, long-term loans are followed by a repayment of the basic debt of $4.07 billion, plus $1.08 billion in interest. The public sector, i.e. the state, will have to allocate $490m in 2009 to repay the foreign debt, with $205m for the capital and $285m for interest. I apologize for this time-out. So, what is the misunderstanding of the SRS MPs in this picture of Serbia, which we managed to paint in about six and a half minutes, we really don't understand, we want to hear concrete and qualified answers, what the Serbian government has prepared as an agenda, as a program of overcoming the crisis ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7212	I would like the professional service and this part of the presentation and the question of the MP to be forwarded to the Government for an urgent answer. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, who points to a violation of the Rules of Procedure, 225, and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7213	It's just formally-legal as if it's an injury, it's not an injury. This is a ridiculous need for a parliamentary discussion, which is that dialogue between MPs and representatives of the government is needed. If there's no dialogue, I get the impression that I'm talking to a wall or a stone that doesn't understand me. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia must ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an explanation, data and must hear these data, here, in the National Assembly, to hear the argument of one side and the other, so that everyone can assess where the truth is, who hides the data, and who objectively shows the situation in the financial sector of the Republic of Serbia. When you defined yourself as changing these three laws, you made it clear that you did not apply the Law on the National Bank of Serbia properly and did not use the other powers that you have in the Banks Act. Why? These two laws are probably laws that prevent the prevention of financial problems. You've been dragging us in these seven years as the banking system is stable, sure, nothing can happen to him. The stakes of citizens are secured, guaranteed by the state through its Agency. Until about a year ago, he was in the agency, glaring and dressing Labus, with all those affairs about the agency, all the affairs that haven't been cleared up yet. Let me remind you, they haven't been cleared up yet. Now the one who is making affairs in the Agency needs to be a guarantee that there will be no collapse of the financial system, and only in the part of the financial system relating to the savings roles of citizens, the deposits of citizens and all that can be taken under the deposits of natural persons. But these thugs are wider, so they say, you should also include the deposits of entrepreneurs, and small and medium-sized enterprises as legal entities. At the same time, in this Deposit Insurance Agency Act, they are making a sloppy change and only going to the part where the state allegedly guarantees citizens, not for the entire banking system, so that citizens from this pay phone can hear how this government thinks of them as physical persons, as individuals, to protect them from something that's going on. And then as a form of protection prescribes a para-state nationalisation of banks created by foreign capital, probably by our capital, so a few years ago we had the opportunity to hear that the former governor of the National Bank of Serbia said, I was simply surprised that this famous bank, when it sells now, was found to be formed by foreign funds. That's the situation with Raiffeisen Bank. The international association that credited Sarajevo, etc. is also accurate. Why are they doing this? To trick the citizens. There's nothing else. To calm the citizens as their savings and their resources are safe. To whom? (President: Time.) In those banks that only deal with citizens. We don't have banks that do business with the economy, just deal with the citizens. Citizens should be deceived by this law to continue to trust these Dinkic ememeofian, etc. banks, to continue to leave funds, and those funds go to some locations... (President: Minute, Mr. Krassic.) )......................................................................................................... Again, Mr. Novakovic, this is a very important topic. I've been waiting three years for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7214	The word is from MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7215	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask one question, since Mrs. Minister is here, and this issue concerns the signing of the extended fact of the General Collective Treaty. So this contract, signed between Minister Rasim Ljajic and union representatives, says this: that the contract gives 15% of the average salary to a warm meal. As there are about two million employees in Serbia, and I'm a man who likes to calculate it precisely, I've calculated it, it's about a billion and a half euros. And 75% of the average wage for the regression, so that our working people go on vacation, which is about 600m euros. When we figure that out, I get two billion and 100m euros, plus an increase in pensions of 400m euros, two billion and 500m euros will be reached. We heard the situation of our economy, we heard in the Prime Minister's exposé that it started with the growth of the gross national product of 7%, and then it fell to 4%, so it's about 3.5%, and if we're going to end up at minus, we're going to see. So, a question for the minister: where is that money, those two and a half billion? Where are we going to pay off the general collective agreement, and we know what our state of state is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7216	Thank you. The word to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure is looking for Mr Miroslav Petkovic and gets it on the basis of article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7217	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, we heard today that a reduction in fuel prices was announced on average by two dinars per litre. The price of crude oil on the stock market today is 55 dollars, such as in October 2004, at the time the price of gasoline in Serbia was 59.60 dinars, today, with this reduction of two dinars, should be 89.27 dinars. Excise revenues in 2008 amounted to 102 billion dinars. On October 20th 2008, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, prime minister, said excise duties would increase by four dinars per litre, up to about 30%. In the structure of the excise fuel price are 35 dinars per gasoline and 19 dinars per diesel. My question for you is: did you perhaps get a recommendation from the IMF and did he ask you to increase excise duties to about 40 dinars on gasoline and 25 dinars on diesel fuel? When this is calculated, as fellow Dimitrijevic said, we are dealing with these problems and mathematics in a good way, this means that planned excise revenues should be 130 billion dinars in the following year. So that 30 billion dinar increase is what I'm interested in being answered, is that the price of unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Namely, the unilateral application of this agreement can be good for the citizens of Serbia, it can have positive effects, but I don't know if it will also be a beautiful story, as was a beautiful story with a white Schengen leaf. The fact is that Serbian citizens will compensate and pay these 30 billion dinars, the fact is that Serbia's oil industry will fill the budget for 2009, but we will discuss it in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7218	Thank you. Advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure and receives the word of the People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7219	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, mentioned several words here, or MPs, such as promises that should be kept and fulfilled, then there were words of trust, and trust is gained by making a promise to all the forces you are trying to keep, and my colleague Petkovic mentioned here, in the end, a word, that is, the story of the white Schengen list. Yesterday, Minister Djelic, who is in charge of Serbia's entry into the EU, was in charge of his portfolio, in the Assembly, i.e. at the session of the Committee on European Integration, informed all the MPs who are members of that committee, so you who were the one who heard him, among other things, of the citizens of Serbia, because that session looked more like his own press conference than at the committee session, because in his opening presentation Mr Djelic used an hour from the session, so that journalists when he was out, because his opening presentation took too long, and he informed us all that he no longer knew when Serbia would be on the white Schengen list. So, his promises were, that was a pre-election promise, that by the end of 2008, Serbia would be on the white Schengen list, so in two months, and then he rewritten it, and there was a new promise that by 2009, Serbia would be on the white Schengen list, and yesterday he told us that it would not happen until 2010, and when we don't know. For reasons, he cited the global economic crisis, cited the reason for the European Parliament's election and for failing to adopt the Lisbon Agreement. These reasons which he cited to us and which justify the failure of his cabinet, we knew that in early 2008 or before the elections. So I think he owes an apology to both Serbian citizens and I'm afraid next time, when it comes to Serbia getting on the white Schengen list, he may even state as a reason for failure and global warming. So I ask both the ministers and all the officials and politicians in Serbia to make serious promises and to keep them, because this way of cheating is simply not good for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7220	Thank you very much. Based on article 85, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups -- the SRS parliamentary group, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the G17 Plus MP group, DSS Vojislav Kostunica, the New Serbia parliamentary group and the MEP group for European Serbia. We move to a debate on the order of registered speakers, with the fact that from the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, there is still a claim for words to use its time by MP Mladen Grujic, the New Serbia parliamentary group. So, according to the order of the People's MPs, according to the application for a word in the joint principled search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda, MP Djordje Milicevic was first reported, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7222	Dear Madam Chairman, I must only address you, given that the representatives of the Ministry are not currently in the Hall, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliaments, amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, with amendments to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, represent one operationalisation of the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prevent the economic crisis in Serbia, due to global developments in the global financial market. Viewing current developments in the global financial market and psychological effects on depositors can have extremely negative effects on Serbian citizens who would primarily reflect the quick withdrawal of deposits and raising money. In order not to become the safest money-saver again, the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a series of adequate measures that can be brought down to first, under number one, the secured deposit increases from three thousand to 50,000 euros in dinar equivalent to the depositary in the bank. This measure is therefore due to the European Commission's recommendation. An increase in deposit guarantees achieves a significant degree of protection through a nominal increase in the guaranteed deposit, as well as through an increase in the number of citizens, hence protected depositors. Quantitative data from this change indicate that the biphysical faces, the citizens were covered by 99.76% of the total number of depositors. The mere fact that this measure refers to 6.29 million depositors of citizens, so one person in one bank, points to the economic strength of our citizens. In deposit structure, about 80% of depositors account for up to three thousand euros in deposits, suggesting that our citizens are very poor. An increase in the amount of deposits secured from three to 50,000 euros in total covered deposits would amount to around 927 billion euros. This measure would therefore not cover only 14,415 depositors, as I see it. What would happen in banks if 1.5 million depositors went into banks to raise their deposits of over 3,000 euros? Who could explain to other depositors, citizens with a deposit of up to 3,000 euros, in particular that their money is secured and that they are safe? The psychological effect of millions of citizens would create real chaos and seem to be the siege of banks. This law extends deposit insurance to natural persons and to the deposits of entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized legal entities. This measure certainly contributes to the financial stability of the largest number of economic operators and should contribute to the halting of their deposits in banks and the financial market. It should be said that this is a significant newspaper, given that in the previous period, after the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, the mostly calmed citizens' depositors, and what remains is shared by the depositors. In the end, I consider that the amendments to this law should be accepted, with the obligation of the National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to continue to monitor closely the developments in the global financial market and the environment and to take adequate measures. The amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act are accompanying, with the same goal -- effective and timely stability of the banking and financial system. This creates a legal basis for the government, with the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia, to buy, on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. This is a real measure, but it scares us of being abused. Doesn't this mean that the artificially induced fall in the value of some banks will cover the government from the republican budget? I think that special attention must be paid to the Ministry and the National Bank to the audit reports of banks and funds -- whether these reports are credible and objective or they are falsified, because we see what this has led to in the American banking system. It remains, therefore, only regrettable that such adequate measures were not applied in the 2000-2001 period to the then banking system and domestic banks, as it seems to us that they might breathe more peacefully today. Then all domestic banks went into bankruptcy and liquidation overnight, and then the property was sold out. We don't seem to have even tried to take measures for their stabilisation and recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7223	Mr. Kragovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. In fact, I am referring to these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, by just wanting the public to know -- that several hundred KIM councilmen were in Belgrade today, that the president of the Assembly had received us, that we had a constructive conversation and he was familiar with our memo, our text, what the Serbian people with KIM wanted. In the meantime, we also went to the President of the Republic. He had very little time and couldn't see us for more than ten minutes, but he delayed it for the next week. This time I went out, first of all, to thank all the committees with KIM, all the officials, the presidents of the municipalities and the presidents of the KIM municipalities, as well as the MPs who responded and attended, and thus tried to give one of our opinions, the opinion of the Serb people with KIM, to present both the presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia. We hope they will comply with our demands. Once again, I thank you for the efforts of all the KIM councilmen who have found the time to come today and to show our troubles and our problems exactly where it is most important, which is in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the cabinet of the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7225	Ambassador Jovan Nesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the chairman, Madam Ministers, we have before us amendments and additions to the laws relating to the stability of the financial system of the Serbian state. These are - amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, amendments and additions to the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Amendments Act of the Banks and Insurance Companies. What is common and what is the purpose of these three laws? The objective of amending and supplementing these three laws is to establish a stable, sustainable and functional deposit insurance system for natural persons and legal persons and trust and strengthen the banking sector in the Republic of Serbia. What we all know is the global crisis that works both in the strongest and most developed countries has a slow impact on our small state of Serbia. These measures should reduce the impact of the global crisis, both on the banking system and on the economic system of the Republic of Serbia. As for the amendment and addition of the Deposit Insurance Act, two important changes are: one is to extend the deposit insurance system from natural persons to the deposits of entrepreneurs, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises; another is to increase the amount secured from the current 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros per deposit in one bank. And when thinking about the level of deposit insurance, you had to look at what the countries in the environment did and if you look at the neighbouring countries, except for Slovenia, they were about to provide a slightly larger or slightly smaller amount of this amount. When we talk about deposit insurance, it is very important to say a few words and what kind of foreign reserve the Serbian state is. According to the National Bank, in October 2008, the National Bank's reserves were 9.35 billion euros, or 11.97 billion dollars. This level of reserve provides coverage of the monetary mass that is in circulation in the state of Serbia at the moment 3.5 times. If foreign reserves are added to reserves in banks, it is around 700m euros and some million euros, then total foreign exchange rates are over 10 billion euros, which gives the country's foreign reserves full security in the coming period. It should also be said that in October, foreign exchange reserves fell to some 350m euros and for the stability of the dinar course, i.e. to avoid daily excessive oscillations on the interbank market, also in October, the National Bank of Serbia sold 269m euros, as recent days show that the euro rate is stable. So, from this point of view, the financial system of this country is also good at the moment. A thing that is also important -- what we have at this point is a banking system. Realistically in this country, at the moment the banking system is stable, reformed, strengthened, and by all indicators, the banking system and the state of Serbia will be able to overcome the crisis more easily than the country's economic system. According to data on 15.10.2008, there were 6.31 million savings in Serbia and with deposit insurance at 50,000 euros, 6.29 million savings are provided, which means 99.76% of depositors in this country with 50,000 euros secured. So, without any problem, people can keep their money in banks. It is also important to say why it is important for citizens to keep money in banks, not elsewhere. We are fully aware that in the 1990s we have had a crisis of the banking system and that it is very difficult to restore citizens' confidence in that banking system. It is down where it is returned, however, must be done in the future. It is clear that our saying "whom the snakes have eaten and the lizard is afraid" can be applied at this point. But really, when people keep money in banks, there are a few things that need to be noted. We need to be aware that now that we have a week's savings, interest banks are about 10%. Indeed, no one has the right to urge someone to keep money in straws without keeping it in banks, because on the one hand it eats inflation, and on the other hand, if you have 10,000 euros in banks, if you have 1,000 euros in straws, and you don't keep it in banks, 10% to 1,000 euros will fail. This means that hundreds of euros per month per citizen, per deficit, will not be small funds for our conditions. On the one hand, there is less money in the economy because credit conditions are more unfavourable. As soon as you don't have money in the bank and savings, credits are bigger and that's one serious problem. On the other hand, we need to increase the competitiveness of the economy to buy equipment for our economy, or for production, if you have unfavourable bank loans, then it's hard to buy that equipment, our product will be, people, uncompetitive. The last thing that's really important. If you have lower economic growth, a return on the economy, then you have less money for taxes, less revenue in the budget, and that means less investment. It will be very important that in the coming year and by the end of this year the state finds certain mechanisms to help the economy. It seems to me that in some way we would have long-term and short-term lending and crafts for the economy that the state needs in the coming year to increase the funds, which go through the development fund, according to the economy. The latest statements by the resolution ministers and individuals from the government show that in this direction I am thinking, and I am giving full support because indeed in the coming year we must protect the economy and in every way achieve this 4% growth, or what are the latest projections from the resolution ministries and the government in general. As for the second law, the law on the Insurance Agency has been defined by the operations carried out by the Deposit Insurance Agency. These are: the obligation to secure deposits of natural persons, the function of a bankruptcy liquidator in banks and insurance companies, participates in the management of banks whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, organises and implements the process of selling the shares of these banks, as well as the privatisation process of social, i.e. state capital in insurance companies. As far as this law is concerned, changes have been made to create a legal basis that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the National Bank's opinion obtained, can take timely steps to prevent unwanted effects in the domestic banking system. These measures concern, what many countries in the world are doing, that, in the event of a disturbance in the banking system, the Agency can take the purchase of bank shares due to difficulties in the business of these banks. It is important to note that this measure applies to all banks operating in the territory of the Serbian state, regardless of whether they are with the actions of the state of the Republic of Serbia, or with the actions of businessmen and entrepreneurs, or whether they originate in foreign capital. So all the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must first have the consent of the National Bank of Serbia, for one simple reason, because, by law, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia performs control and function in the banking sector. Finally, the adoption of this law will improve the stability, security and functioning of the banking system in Serbia. The G17 Group of MPs plus in the voting day will support changes and additions to this law and ask other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7227	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. Mrs. Radet's word is in the Rules of Procedure. Have Mr. Milan Lapcevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7228	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was wondering if I should advertise Article 104. Rules of Procedure, or I'll call Rule 221. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I have no intention of challenging the replica, but I have nothing against a colleague who just spoke here. Indeed, I think we should remind the MPs that they represent the citizens in Parliament. I can accept that the Serbian government is telling citizens a story that Serbian citizens know perfectly that has nothing to do with the truth, that has nothing to do with reality. After all, we all live today in this period marked by the crisis around the world, and of course it cannot bypass Serbia, especially since Serbia has already been at all levels in the major crisis before this global crisis, in the economic crisis, in social misery. Unfortunately, I see some are smiling, but I don't know if today someone in Serbia is having a funny situation where we are. I also heard this morning in debates that some colleagues mentioned Mr. Secretary of State, who visited on one television a few weeks ago with two science doctors, a professor in the field of banking, economics, and they laughed at the show, asked Mr. Secretary of State if he believes what he's saying. It turns out, of course, that these very laws we're discussing today are in favour of the State Secretary being joking at the time. But MPs have no right to deceive citizens. People's MPs have to tell citizens the truth, whatever it is. Who among the people who were following this Parliament's work and who had little beatings in front of a small screen could believe that well-being that we were told about here today? It is obvious that Serbian citizens return from the bank's counter, if they had any savings. Bank counters were obsessed with those last weeks, citizens wanted to raise that money they had and, of course, those who didn't do it, they'd better do it as soon as possible. Time's up, I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7229	Mr. Krasic first according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Lapchev, I know you're interested in working, but here we go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7230	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we do. It is also done by the Rules of Procedure when it appears to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure and when a man appears in order. The abuse of the Rules of Procedure is quite different, but I will explain it to Mr. Novakovic in the hallway, not at the expense of this time that I have to take advantage of. You are a injured member of 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because this gentleman from G17 plus gave one less or more, only praised the screening, lullaby. Of course he's confused a lot of things. Who vouches for the deposits of natural persons? Why is there an obligation to secure the deposit of natural persons? Based on what you said, someone would get the impression that the state guarantees all deposits, so it should now be extended to the deposits of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. What does the insurance policy have to do with the legal person's deposit? Where is it with us? Why are you putting that in now? What are you hiding in that way? Why do you want to hide things? Just to remind you, we have an ideal banking system, you don't know who owns the capital, you don't know who the founder of banks, the banks don't work with the economy, they work with the citizens, because there's the most stable source of funds. What do they use as a means of payment security? Mostly mortgages. Have you come out here, Madam Minister as a representative of the Government, to say what the global financial crisis is looking at, and what could the financial crisis in the Republic of Serbia be looked at and what could be the cause of this crisis? You've turned things around, and you say -- we recommend that citizens next year save, and you didn't say they should be recommended to some, or some go to jail, or some call for responsibility because of over-creation and over-consumption. You're not going to say that for the simple reason that the state is acting like it's overexpending. Now he's talking to the dormant about how it's hypothetically good, so our economy can buy new machines, so that it can make products, and our economy doesn't work, we mostly import everything, and three times more charges are made of extra value for goods imported from abroad, than for goods produced by us. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a dangerous scam to put you to sleep, to keep your money with these insecure banks, and they will, with some swans or Labus songs, hold this tension, of course, with the help of the media in other ways. Of course, I'll get back to the Rules of Procedure later, talk about how some banks are placed and what they place themselves in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7231	Mrs. Milica Radovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, I appeal to Article 225 and 226 and ask for an answer to the question I have asked before, but I still haven't received the answer. I wonder how much Serbia will lose specifically from unilateral implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? As we know, this agreement provides for a number of customs duties either to be abolished or reduced, which will directly lead to our domestic products becoming uncompetitive on the domestic market compared to foreign products that will be much cheaper. This will later result in a reduction in domestic production, on the one hand, and on the other hand an increase in imports and an increase in the large, huge external trade deficit anyway. I simply believe that the liberalisation of trade and the elimination of customs is something Serbia should seek, something that should represent its long-term objective. But at this point, at the moment when the global economic crisis breaks and at the moment when it breaks down to the real sector, the question arises whether one of these measures should be resorted to at all? We believe that at this point Serbia should have one basic goal, which is how to preserve the level of economic activity in the medium term. Why am I asking this question? Because in Serbia, there are already large numbers of workers to be fired. We've only had a chance to hear that in the last ten days, more than a thousand workers have been fired. I believe that this measure will additionally burden the domestic economy and will thus challenge and force employers to apply even greater measures in terms of lay-offs, i.e. reduction of labour force. For the sake of the public, I must say that this is a gesture of goodwill, that Serbia will not benefit from such a measure in the short term. The question arises whether the satisfaction of a number of bureaucrats in Brussels is worth firing so much?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7233	The word is Mr. Milorad Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure too, then Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rules 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I am asking the Minister of Finance here, and I am asking for a notice and an answer to a concrete question on which funds the Government, or the Deposit Insurance Agency, can pay off the funds in the event of bankruptcy proceedings against certain banks? It is to be expected, given the global economic and financial crisis, that our banks will also come into insolvency and insolvency and end up in bankruptcy, as is the case in the world. In the U.S. only during this year 19 medium and large banks went away without talking about those small regional and other banks, savings, savings-credit cooperatives, etc. We also have a case in Europe, except our press releases all of this and we're not familiar with the severe economic and financial cash crisis in Western Europe, which will be transmitted here. Here, we heard here from the finance minister and for the first time any of the officials said and used the word crisis. The crisis is here, she's at the door, she's constantly with us, except the official government doesn't admit it. I ask the question, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4. The deposit insurance law, which says that in the event of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, funds will be paid out of the Bank Insurance Fund. The fund currently has a total of 30m euros. These are too small funds, almost for a middle bank, let alone for serious banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The same member is scheduled to guarantee and guarantee full insurance to the Republic of Serbia. From what means? Is that the budget? We have a deficit in the budget, we have a payment deficit, we have a foreign trade deficit, we have a budget deficit, and we stress that. What do you expect? From which means you plan to pay off those funds if this situation arises, and if it has occurred, if the banking and financial system of America and Europe is bogged down, so it's not the devil that it won't be here too. If you're convinced of all this, then you have to go out here and say, "Don't use it," as you've never used the word crisis before. Now you've used it for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7235	The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7236	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I call on Article 104 MPs to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Indeed, any MP can be in favour of the law or against the law and make certain arguments that will be made to the MPs and citizens of Serbia who watch this transfer. In my speech, I just said what stands out as an official NBS statement, what foreign currency reserves are. I also talked about the coverage of depositors in banks and I called on the citizens of Serbia, fully responsible, that it is smarter and better for them to keep money in banks, where it is intended, because it will lose 10%, what each bank now gives in the week's savings, 9-10-11, depends on banks. I didn't say anything else. On the other hand, I completely understand individuals here, the worse, for them is better. That's quite clear. I really don't want to talk about the 90s banking system. We know what it was like and don't let God come back. It's a simple thing. I want to say one more thing, the rhetoric of individuals from this assembly address to the citizens of Serbia and calling for such discussions, I tell you, people, look at the results of the local elections -- one party that was large in two municipalities in Serbia has not crossed the censorship. So much for what they say. There's one more thing I want to say. If a ship sinks slowly, please don't invite it to sink much more and some difficult changes occur. That is why I call upon the Messengers of the people to bring forth both for and against arguments. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will say in voting day how it feels about changes and additions to these three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7237	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7238	Of course, 225 and 226. However, this cannot be inspired without comment. I don't think the citizens of Serbia have had an answer since 2001, and neither has the late Djindjic -- where is the money from Cyprus? We didn't get an answer to the question of how someone missed the National Bank in the first attempt, so in the second attempt, he managed to win it with a weapon and what happened with the criminal procedure. We did not get an answer to the question of what happened to the National Savings, why our banks were shut down and how now, as an expert solution, something was offered by Mladjan Dinkic in 2001. The state cannot socialise the losses of an existing banking system and they must be extinguished. How do you now do your kind of socialization of some banks' losses and bad business? We don't have any information about what banks are bad, we just have information or some news from newspapers where one of the government's representatives wants to dominate which bank. To remind the public in Serbia what is going on worse. This morning, a debate on the Public Procurement Act was concluded. Do you know that there are no more immovableities that are the subject of regulation of the Public Procurement Act? You know, and you know why -- because your people have acquired whole floors and now your Gilas is clearing up with the construction mafia, he wants to remove traces, and then you're going to sell to state authorities, public enterprises of republican importance, and to all those who are obliged to apply the Public Procurement Act to sell real estates in a direct contract, the question of how they're earned, but they're going to wash the papers and wash the money. The central question this government is not going to answer is - is the result of the announced financial crisis that income and income expectations based on banking business raise to that fetish that the maltenes become business costs fixed, and then we all have to fit in with the planned earnings, so in order to make the planned earnings, let the state guarantee. To guarantee what? Credits from abroad? Indemnity? By selling out? Well, you have nothing more to sell. There's nothing more to sell in this country. The time has come to draw the line and settle down. That's why you need games, and I'm asking the government's representative to tell me if the business bank can lend to a political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7239	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7240	Article 104. The Rules of Procedure and Rule 101, and the plea to colleagues who earn, are probably nervous about what they have to do, but get out here, say everything you have, and don't throw it away, it's rude and inappropriate, especially not half-speakable. A gentleman from G17, a colleague of Nesovic, has just repeated here what he said in his first report, but he has drawn attention to the MPs that MPs can be in favor of law and against law and defend their views with arguments, which is theoretically correct but sir, then act alone. We understand that you will support the law that comes from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but at least act like these yellow ones, so shut up, don't say anything, vote in the voting day, so that at least the citizens of Serbia don't hear each and every single one of you individually what they will say about the proposals of these laws, the whole situation and the crisis in which Serbia is located. We've been listening to everything and everything from the government's representatives these previous days. They remember Serbian citizens, it was 10-15 days ago when Djelic said that this global financial crisis, although Djelic says to citizens it seems strange, but it is great for Serbia. It's an opportunity for investors to come to Serbia. He once said that and he never said it again, so I guess someone warned him how stupid he said it and something nobody could believe in alive. He won't talk about the banking system of the 1990s, but we could talk about the banking system of these various foreign banks that Dinkic brought to Serbia. No one knows how, no way. We could also talk to Dinkic about where the deposits of the largest Serbian banks he abolished when he came to power, after that break-in with the long pipes at the National Bank. As he deceived both the government and the citizens of Serbia when he took over the National Savings Bank and took the name of the National Savings Bank in order to mislead the citizens and the part of the government at the time that it was something that really had to do with national and some general national interest. I see it's been three minutes. Obviously there will be time today to discuss what he is interested in, which is actually initiated by a colleague from G17, so certainly interested citizens of Serbia will be reminded of everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7241	MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7242	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Ten minutes ago, a colleague from the G17 parliamentary group, Jovan Nesovic, said the following -- you know that now in this week, interest savings in all banks are 10%. I thought it was a lapus or a man might be joking. Five minutes ago from this same pay phone, Mr. Nesovic said the following - I recommended that citizens do not lose 10% because each bank now gives so much interest. It has been verified that in the country of Serbia, where we are now, there is not one single bank that is making a 10% interest today, and in the week of savings and before the week of savings. That's one thing. Secondly, when the MP comes out for this pay phone twice in ten minutes, I believe that he is not only insulting the MPs, or their dignity, but also the citizens of Serbia, all of those citizens of Serbia who are not at odds with common sense. When I listen to MPs from G17 I get the impression that there are two Serbias, one real Serbia where we all live and one virtual Serbia. Yesterday we heard from G17 representatives that their President Mladjan Dinkic never mentioned that he had found Milosevic's billions in Cyprus, so we heard that the Federal Assembly had not burned, that it was insinuation. Now we hear there's 10% interest in all banks. I won't take this opportunity, but if I'm forced to report for the replica, I'll read how much interest they make, so you'll see there's no interest at 10%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7243	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Damjanović, MP. I'd just like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85(4), today we will extend the work after 1800 hours per item on the agenda at 1800 hours, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7244	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, honourable MPs, I have an obligation, moral and human, as a member of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj and as a member of the Roma community in Serbia to say a few words. I've been listening to a lot of exposure these days about this debate in parliament, and I want you to believe this time, I'm a little surprised, to appeal to our country, to our state institutions, to humanity and to our commitment to the human community, which is great, after the Serbian people, and that's the Roma community in Serbia. Listening to enormous spending of money, the budgets allocated in large million figures for the institutions of judicial institutions, cassation, appeals courts and other institutions that are not yet in office and are leaving. Where that money goes, I don't want to discuss it. But please, you must know that the world and European community are very much helping Serbia right now and for the Roma problem. You know that the Roma people are the poorest in this country today of all nations. I know today is difficult for both the Serbian people and all the national minorities the SRS respects, but I must say that the Roma people are the poorest in this country. And not recently, but I just have to say, which is clearly true, since the DOS came to power. The European shame and shame are that under Gazela there are displaced persons from KIM, the Roma community, for so many years. It is amazing that 157 unsanitary settlements are in Belgrade. We have a Roma community that lives don't ask how, very miserable and very miserable. What they say -- that's not how you live in Biafra either. I wonder where the dignity of a nation is, where are the money from all kinds of donations? Where's the Decade of Roma and what's our country doing? Isn't that a shame when foreign statesmen pass by and watch those settlements? It is a picture and opportunity of human and civil rights and respect for the national minority rights of the Roma community in this country. I appeal... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That this country has to do something. If nothing is done, please, certain people who want to visit international institutions are prepared, I said that we have a state, as a MP, I will present everything I have to say. But that's why I'm saying, please, if I have a state, and apparently we have one, do something for that people. I have a few more important details, but since time's up, I'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7245	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milorad Buha and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue where I left off during my previous reporting on the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for secured deposits. I think we have to deal with this issue, we have to say in the case, in the west they say, bankruptcy, and here we say liquidity, insolvency of the banking system or part of that system, let's see from which funds...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7247	Mr. Buha, what member is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7248	Article 225 and 226, I request information from the Ministry of Finance, since it is not stated here in the explanation. On the other hand, in the materials of these three legal projects no sentence has been spoken of. Article 4 The deposit insurance law clearly states that the entire insurance system is guaranteed by the state, i.e. by the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking from what means? Whether these are financial resources, let's see if the Republic of Serbia has the funds at its disposal or not. Legal projects, i.e. the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, provide for the establishment of a fund. We currently have 30m euros in the fund, which is the state in 2007, and it is likely that that amount has been mutilated during this year and that may be 35m euros. Let's see what's on the other side. On the other hand, we have foreign exchange savings of 5.7 billion euros and we have about four billion euros of deposits in dinars. The total deposit mass is 9.7 billion euros for which the state is set to guarantee. From what means to cover it? With these 35 million euros, how. It can't fit into each other. These are the proms we currently have at our disposal. In the event of a crisis, the bankruptcy of the banking system, which is possible, we're talking about now, even if one bank, not the middle bank, but the small bank, is in this state, what's going on? Why are we saying that? We're talking because it's a reality in the West. That'll come here too. We must say that our citizens are over-indebted. We currently have obligations of citizens to banks, last month, about 413 billion dinars, that's close to five billion euros. We have legal persons, small, medium and large enterprises, about 8 billion euros. We have entrepreneurs around 750m euros. These are huge debts, a huge deposit mass, and on the other hand, there's a guarantee of the state, let's see from which funds. If we say we have a deficit in the budget, then do we count on some material basis. What is this material basis that we can have in order to calm down what is the obligation of the state, if we count on that obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7249	Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7250	If we had the right government and the right National Bank of Serbia and the responsible people in those institutions, then in the Assembly we would get answers to all these questions and then we could assess whether what the Government is proposing is an adequate measure, the best measure and the measure that solves this situation. Now there's talk here about these three laws, so you don't get an answer to the question - whether the NBS Act is properly applied and whether the Banks Act is properly applied. These two regulations save the banking system because they insist on legitimate business and are likely to give state authorities the opportunity to intervene with regard to risk placements and sausages. We can't talk about it, but the resolution of the upcoming financial crisis has been moved to a section called Deposit Insurance. The deposits of natural persons are being secured. But no, they're also putting in small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs now. Why? They replace the concepts of the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. Here's an example, if those first two laws were to be applied and if we were to get an answer to the question of what the results of the bank's business control were from those two laws, then we'd see that there really are risky placements and that the banks, thanks to this government and the NBS, created monetary mass, and now somehow this system is being maintained, so that there is no breakdown. Where there's money abroad a little anyone knows about in this country. I can't get an answer to the question -- what happens when a foreign bank lends credit to a political party? Which is why the political party can guarantee the payment of the loan. So far there's been a mortgage, but the party has no assets, no real estate. Then they come up with the bad guys and they say -- bonds and contractual powers, and double-sures the return of the loan, challenges the political party's blockades, accounts, and then they rub their hands and then such examples as Nesovic come out and talk about local communities in the topic of banks. Why? For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to continue to believe in that illusion that was created... (President: Time. ..when the building of the Federal Assembly was burned down.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7251	National MP Vladan Jeremic, then Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7252	Under the provisions of 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will take this opportunity to get to know the Serbian public about the fact that a group of patriotic national organisations, including 1389, each day, starting at 17 o'clock, organises civil protests in Belgrade's Square of the Republic, in which a completely justified, in a legal, civilised manner, shows their views against the regime of Boris Tadic, argued that Serbia should not enter the EU under such conditions, why The Hague court is a political freak, which was made to Satanise Serbia as a state, why it is seeking the removal of the NATO base and the Ministry of Defence of Serbia, why EULEX is an occupation. Meetings are properly notified to the competent authorities in accordance with the legislation, and organisers and citizens participating in them have legal basis in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guaranteeing freedom of assembly, speech, etc. Today is the 116th day of the protest, although the authorities have been deaf all along, even though the media have avoided reporting about these gatherings, it is obvious that the protests are slowly justifying their goal, which is the departure of the international regime of Boris Tadic. How else to interpret from today's already open-ended nervousness and clear pressure from the MUP, apparently, more and more "breathing" regimes, since today they have held famous information talks in the Old Town police administration with representatives of the protests. On this occasion, they were threatened by the ban on protesting walks and by focusing on the sidewalk, as some representatives of the ruling congregation's majority have on several occasions suggested, under an audible explanation of normal traffic functioning. They still don't seem to realize that it's not a traffic problem, the problem is in the regime, and I'm taking this opportunity to ask -- is this in the 21st century an attempt to choke democracy? I know that the protest will meet its goal and they have full support for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7253	The People's Messenger, Jovan Damjanović, and then the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7254	Art. 225th and 226th and as a People's MP, I would like to receive the notice requested in my previous presentation as well as now. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I listened here, it was obvious, some bags, some packages. Isn't that the degradation of a nation and unity? Should our country degrade the Roma community to score in some municipalities to vote. I think it is contrary to the statutes and human rights of citizens not only in this country but in the whole world. Please, as a folk MP and as vice president of the World Organisation of Roma, do not underestimate one nation, which is historically related to the Serbian people and who died together with the Serbian people in all storms and storms, and we all know that, that's history. We have over 100,000 Roma in Jasenovac, along with the Serb people and other nations, who have been executed. Is that what we deserve? Please don't. Should 500 dinar packages or two thousand dinars be shared, and we live in such a state that we have no streets, no sewers, no plumbing, no electricity. You don't take care of it, and you give us packages to vote for you. That's terrible what it looks like. I want to say this, SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, and he asked me why I keep mentioning the party, so I told him: SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj did not provide packages and humanitarian aid to national minorities and Roma in all Serbian cities, but helped with infrastructure, employment and all other needs for one normal life. I'll tell you, the World Roma organization knows everything the SRS did and Dr. Vojislav Seselj for the Roma community, I said it here, but I'll repeat, we've got life, we haven't had sewerage, plumbing, paved streets and electricity, we can't get the police, no ambulance, no firemen, no one can come. We were on our own. Dr Vojislav Seselj and SRS have completely paved the infrastructure in one part and another, there are now about 20,000 Roma, but we have a normal life. We, as they say, have built ourselves into the system of this society, because we have like all other citizens, and not just in Zemun. (President: Time. ) For a special push for the Roma community, the World Organization has awarded the highest recognition of Dr. Seselj, and the World Organization is a member of the UN, it has awarded King Juan Carlos of Spain, the King of Spain is an honorary member of the Andalusia Roma association in Spain and has done much, and he has contributed to normalising, as they say, a better life for the Roma community. Dr Vojislav Seselj received such recognition from the World Organisation of Roma. These are the only two people in the world who have received the greatest recognitions from the world community. So King Juan Carlos and Dr Vojislav Seselj. (President: Time. They received confessions because they apparently did something. That's why I expect you gentlemen who are in power, and this country to finally do something for the Roma people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7255	Mr. Damjanovic, you spoke a minute and a half more, but I would really like to ask that we return to the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7256	Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Due to the presence of Ms. Minister, I would like to present some of the facts of the report on the control of the application of the law in the field of material finance business, dedicated and legal use of budgetary resources in the Municipality of Bajin Basta, for the period from 1 January 2007 to the day of control, which was 7 July 2008. I'm talking about one of the municipalities where the government does, say, DS and G 17. The question I would like to ask Mrs. Minister, or ask her information: has this, which I am now going to introduce to you, been the authority of the Bayin Basta municipality objecting to the Ministry, that is, how is this finding by senior budgetary inspector Zoran Ilic? Comments on the situation can be sent to the Ministry, you know that and those in Bajina Basta municipality say they delivered those remarks, and if they did not, you should also know that they are then in agreement with the statements set out in this report. You can find that out these days, since you'll be coming, so please let us know about it. Here's the material from 60 pages. I'm just going to say a few interesting things, that the total unsettled liabilities of the budget users in the Bayin Garden municipality are 198,830,885,27 dinars. In 2007 and 2008, the inspector found that the financing of current liquidity deficits was illegally committed by the Bajin Basta Municipality, i.e. the financing of liquid liquidity deficits, which was covered by loans from the Bank of Intects. The management of the Bajin Basta municipality's budget found that the direct beneficiaries of the Bayin Basta municipality's budget, the president of the municipality and the municipal administration, did not apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Act in these transactions with the Bank of Intect. Although the Law on the Budgetary System stipulates that a donation of revenue is a budget, not a expenditure, the funds of the Bayin Basta municipality were illegally spent on donations amounting to 18174,759 dinars, out of which some 5,591,000, health center 1,828,476 dinars were given to trade union organisations. Of course, all of this wouldn't be problematic if it was covered by certain decisions. It's obviously three minutes too little to talk about, and we're gonna have to continue this report individually, so I'm gonna get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7257	First Mr Krasic, then Mr Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7258	Of course, it's these two members, 225 and 226. Someone from the government would finally have to answer those questions, and to make it simple, so I'm going to give an alternative answer as part of the question. At least as regards this law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, only two possible answers are imposed: or this change that is offered represents a kind of party nationalisation of selected banks, or it is a crime. You choose how you will respond. Here's why. The Deposit Insurance Agency Act is, by its nature, a law governing the status of that agency, the Agency is set up and defined by the Agency's business and competences. The agency's jobs and responsibilities are defined in this way, I'm just going to list: insurance of deposits of natural persons, the most important thing - you haven't changed that; the function of a bankruptcy, or liquidation manager -- and you haven't changed that in this law either, there's no need. The third group of jobs is doing business for the Republic of Serbia, from Articles 7 to 11. That's where you change. Within the framework of operations the agency should work on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Serbia. What is prescribed in the existing law? Solutions that are acceptable. Article 7: "The Agency participates in the management of banks, whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, by monitoring the business of these banks and the work of their authorities and performing other tasks on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia". Acceptable. Administrative rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, based on government decisions, through the Management Boards of Agency and Bank, etc. Normal business. Article 8: "Organizes and implements the process of selling bank shares from Article 7." It's normal for state actions in these banks to sell. Article 9: "The Agency, in accordance with the Government Act, can take the following steps with the banks: cover potential losses... ", of course, because he is a shareholder, he bears all the consequences of action, and positive and negative, if he is a loss, to cover the loss. "... to take, buy and otherwise acquire a bad activity... "possibly..." manage bad activity and sell that activity", possible. "For covering potential losses, the Republic of Serbia can issue bonds." Normal. That's not enough for them, and now they're changing that member in one piece. To see how now all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as taxpayers, can't describe the way the government of the Republic of Serbia intervenes, now they change it, so they say within that Article 9, that the government... (President: Bring the end. Just a moment, it's very important... The act, adopted on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia. The notion of the National Bank of Serbia in this agency law only appears this time. He's gone. What else? Buy on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. This does not mean that, where the shareholder of the state is, more action is acquired and that the state becomes the majority owner or to increase. No, it's spreading to all banks that they assume are jeopardizing financial stability. What are they threatening? What shops? What acts? What about the Law on Banks, the Law on the National Bank of Serbia? What is the National Bank of Serbia doing? (President: Mr. Krasic, speak for a minute and a half. No, but to launder money, to launder money, and to carry out crime to the board, and to use it like this, to say citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7259	Mr. Petar Jojic, then Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7260	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked one question and asked for an answer, that was October 22nd of this year, and it was about the delivery of transformers by Končar from Croatia to the Republic of Serbia and the competent authority. It was worth it, therefore, that I asked this question, as it is a damage of 36 weeks, a week at 24.695.80 euros, totaling 889,000 euros. I ask the question: will this be charged and why is the collection process not initiated? I want an answer, when it's charged, in what procedure is it charged? One more thing, I'm not satisfied with the government's response, because the government can say, we've initiated the procedure and this, executive or judicial one, or another for payment, so that according to the Law on Liaison and the Law on Executive Procedure, the collection could be made. Next, ladies and gentlemen, I've asked for a notice and I've been waiting two months for the government to respond. First, bought by companies from Croatia by Frikom, Somboled, Inteks Mladenovac, Paper Factory Belgrade, Jelen Do, Bigz, Diamond, Danube Velika Gradište, Erdevik, Stražilovo Sremski Karlovci, Podunavlje Baka Palanka, Milenim Insurance, Rotographics Subotica. I am particularly interested in which companies are purchased by the company and the buyer Agrokor, owned by Mr. Todorovic. According to our knowledge, close to 300,000 ha took land in Serbia, and in addition a special number of companies and companies that Croatian companies bought through the takeover of Agrokor enterprises, i.e. Face, Idea and Sima. So how is it that Croats can buy anything they want in Serbia, and in addition, I note, some data show that about 500 Croatian companies are operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the question and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for an answer: how many Serbian companies and businesses are working on Croatia's territory? How many of our companies and our government have opened companies and our offices? How many agricultural land companies are, so that we can negotiate relations and establish relations with the Republic of Croatia based on reciprocity. Croatia can't have these privileges and buy in debauchery... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Therefore, we need to be equal and, above all, to do business on market grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7261	Thank you. Mrs. Verica Radeta, then Mr. Buha, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7262	Articles 225 and 226. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, don't be angry with the MPs, be angry with Boris Tadic, we didn't force you to work on Fridays, he made you do it. There is no need to intervene, especially not to say that MP Zoran Krasic understands everything and that is absolutely true. Every MP should be understood, because MPs put their political parties' views on all areas of social life. Who doesn't know, he shouldn't be doing this job. You see how your coalition partners work in Baja Garden. At the time of the control of the Bayin Basta municipality's budget, the municipal administration's working hours were seven hours, and the salary calculation was made on the basis of eight hours' working hours. Then, among other things, it was imposed on this municipality to return illegally spent funds for payment of salaries of 4,863,828 dinars at the expense of the Bayina Basta municipality budget. Of course, that working time is established for eight hours, that from the account of its own revenues of the Užica Health Centre, DZ Bajina Basta, at the expense of the Bayin Basta municipality's budget, the refund of the transferred funds for the payment of work and the purchase of computers amounting to 1,778,000 dinars and to provide evidence that the funds amounting to 332,000 dinars have been spent on teachers and students' rewards. So some of these funds that have been paid would certainly not have been disputed if it had been done in accordance with the law. One of the views of this inspector says, given that the contractor is a worker, and talks about an Ecoservis Drina, who was supposed to clean the Perućac, the accumulated lake, and these 58 pages have at least 30, says that 800,000 dinars were paid in advance after signing the contract, that the contractor did not supply an advance account and that he did not supply the account to the total value of the works carried out in the amount of 850,000 dinars. It is concluded that an advance payment of 800,000 dinars is not justified. So these are just examples, we got these from some people who are employed there and who know that this record is hiding, what the people would say, like a snake's feet. Of course we'd normally talk about these details and we'd talk about it for the next few days. Now I was asked to open this story, management for a gentleman from G17 plus who tried to put us to sleep here, according to Krasic, with some fairy tales. He'd better take care of how his party colleagues work, wherever they work, from Dinkic to those in Baja's Garden.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7263	The People's Messenger, Milorad Buha, has the word, and then the Messenger of Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7264	Articles 225 and 226. Again, I request a notice from the finance ministry, namely from the present minister, which refers to the total deposit mass, which, as we have seen, moves close to 10 billion euros, and on the other hand, we have a fund in which we have only 35m euros. If we have this imbalance in the coverage, and the state doesn't have free resources, it's not in the budget, it's not on a material basis, it's possible it does, but it's not here that we're being presented with which resources are going to cover what needs to be covered, then we need to talk about one political decision. This is a purely political decision without a material and financial basis. There's a fear of the SRS that we're going to lead citizens into a delusion where they're going to lose huge funds. It's not the first time. We have that Rebirth Loan, and then we have that 90-year-old savings and the pain of the citizens that's going on, and it's going to take seven years to get back what they basically brought back, but it's unscathed, and even when we add that to it another ten, fifteen years of getting back, then we actually see that they've lost a lot, and they're never going to be able to get what they're really investing. It's scary. We still need to be concerned about the following fact and data: if it is a political decision, and this is a fact of political decision, there is a well-designed financial basis behind it, and the current government wants precisely through that financial basis to cover what it will not be able to achieve through what is planned for 2008/2009. A year. Authorities have predicted certain funds that we will enter through incredits. Inocredit will not be because the West is in a financial crisis and will not be able to allocate funds because it is struggling with its financial and economic problems. Then we have to, we don't have where, so if we can't pull out of the West, we don't need money from the East, and we don't let Russian and other banks come to our market, then what's left of us is citizens. Let's now fine with political rhetoric, speaking of the stability of our system, on dynamic development, on employment, on the growth of living standards, attract citizens to put their resources from straws into banks, and thus we'll put them in a position in which they were 1990s. The Serbian Radical Party warns you, do not do it without reason. If you have guarantees, come out here and tell me - we guarantee it, by doing so, it's your legal obligation. We haven't heard, we're asking you here to tell us what you guarantee. In law you wrote a guarantee to the Republic of Serbia. What does he guarantee? You have to tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7265	National MP Zoran Krasic, then Mr Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7266	When the public doesn't get answers, then of course they follow up on questions. I just want to, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, finally someone to talk to, but I care a lot more about citizens understanding what this is about. Citizens should know that these two laws on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act still make up some unity. As far as this deposit insurance agency law is concerned, only one member is changing. Please, the most important change is that the government will be able to buy on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia, on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. The threat of financial stability by a bank is an area regulated by the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Law on Banks. This agency law allows the Agency to intervene on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia in those banks where the Republic of Serbia has actions. You're spreading this, so we don't know what that criterion is for financial instability. Well, then we don't know what kind of business it is, why one bank is intervened, and the other bank isn't intervened. What's that criterion? All of this is inserted so widely and discreetly from the view of the government and the National Bank of Serbia, and the basic idea is to change the Deposit Insurance Act. I have to read to you the central provision of that law, it reads, it is Article 4 - The Agency provides deposits up to the level of the amount secured, changing the amount of up to 3,000 euros to up to 50,000 euros. From the point of view of depositors, natural persons, this is an acceptable change, as it thus obliges the bank to provide its internal funds with deposit security and to help the state through the Agency to protect it. The position of the 2nd member says -- the Republic of Serbia guarantees obligations under the position of this member. We are within the limits of the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia. Let's move on, but look what they're doing. They're using it now, so they're putting in this opportunity to buy out shares or otherwise buy some banks, supposedly where there's some financial uncertainty. It's a replacement thesis. (President: Bring the end. ) The central issue of today's situation is how the business of banks is, do they draw money, where they place money, how they form an activity, how they show it, where the money is, how they finance it. But you don't want to talk about it, you want to talk about how you take care of the citizens. You took care of the Kragujevci by concluding a non-existent contract. You took care of these guys the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7267	National MP Dragan Stevanovic, then Mr Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 226 and requesting information from Madam Minister. Madam Minister, this is directly related to your ministry, I'd like to ask you a little attention, at the end of the story, I'm going to ask you a question. Namely, the information since 14 November 2008, the place of Vranje, follows - a total of 34 of the 36 offices of the Apothecary Institute Vranje has been blocked and sealed by order of the tax administration since yesterday. As we learn, a commission list was launched in all the facilities of the Apothecary Institute of Vranje yesterday, and financial police inspectors are doing detailed field control. The team was also announced by the director of the pharmacy Vranje, Jasmina Arsic, who held a press conference in the G17 plus parties' premises. The municipal board of G17 plus the most strongly condemned the conduct of the tax administration and financial inspectors, who started field control at all facilities of the Apothecary Institute of Vranje. The party claims it is unheard of that all pharmacies in the region are closed because of financial control and over 250,000 users remain deprived of the services of the facility. Mrs. Arsic, director of the pharmacy Vranje, claims that 70 financial inspectors at the same time waited outside each of the 36 pharmacies in the region to sign a warrant to start an investigation, according to the Tax Administration of Vranje. She stresses that it is irresponsible to shut down each of these facilities and people who need medication to be left behind. It is said in the IRS that nothing is done without a warrant, and that in the case of a crow pharmacy, the procedure has been respected, while officials of the tax administration without Belgrade's approval refused to make any statements. Uroš Trajkovic, chairman of the G17 Plus Municipal Committee, points out that his party is now seeking transparency and responsibility in the work, but it is unheard of to act this way. Moreover, Trajkovic argues that the background is a political game, and that the action leads from Belgrade and that the Democratic Party is behind it. These claims were denied by the first man of the crow Democrats, Mr Stefanovic, and said he supports any action in which the fight against crime is fought, but also that he condemns the conduct beyond the procedure if it was. The G17 plus assures that the competent state services, but also the mayor of Vranja, have condemned an attempt to shut down pharmacies in the region and announce a serious conversation with coalition partners. And while Trajkovic announces a review of the decision to join the government at a local site with DS, public office holders in the city claim that the G17 plus charges are pointless and reminding them that Zrenjanin's mayor and his associates are also under investigation... (President: Time. Here I come, just another 15 seconds... and that state authorities must be allowed to do their job, even if it was the president of the state. Madam Minister, my question specifically for you -- since the financial police are under your jurisdiction, is it true that the action has been coordinated from Belgrade, the Crown or Andric's wedding, however, or are these regular activities of the financial police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7269	Mr Avramovic, then Mr Jojic, and then Mr Petronijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Art. 225 and 226. I would like to get information from the authorities -- who, which is why and in what way tried to stop peaceful non-political national protests in the Republic Square, which today is the 116th day, should begin exactly at 1700 hours -- and already a huge number, the police contingent is about to act as they are used to and as you of the DS have taught them. Because everything you've been through, you've actually applied it now. You, gentlemen of the DS, forgot when you were pounding in pots and pots, you forgot when you blocked the city, Serbia, when you were driving the bogeymans or I don't know what you were doing, you crashed and burned, and now you're in trouble with peaceful national protests, with serious demands. So, my question -- who does that bother, for what reasons, who's going to ban it and end it after 115 days, is actually today the 116th day? I'll remind you of more examples. This morning, one of the organizers of an NGO was invited to an informative conversation. First he was at the Old Town Police Station, then led to a police station in November 29th, where he was explained that he could protest peaceful walks, but on the sidewalk. Imagine that insolence? People are protesting the KIM EULEX mission, people are protesting the extradition of Serbs to The Hague tribunal, people are protesting EU entry without KIM, and you want to ban them, and you are talking about democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of movement and express opinion. I don't know what it takes for you to carry out your acuity for the power you have to carry out in action without everyone being well? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, this won't take long. This torture is a hasty response from individuals who have also announced it. But rest assured, if these protests are banned, you will not be able to write well in the next elections, perhaps in this congregation. If you beat up and beat up those honest kids and those honest people who meet there regularly at 1700 hours, then you'll show your real face once in a lifetime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7271	Mr. Jojic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have recently asked the Ministry of Justice, but I am now directing it towards the President of the Supreme Court because I have received one answer from the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Namely, I asked the question - is the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court respected in Serbia and whether there are any courts, at which time the countering services work, because it is especially the largest contact and the number of citizens exercising certain rights in our courts. I got the answer to the following content. According to the court's Rules of Procedure, working hours in court are determined by the president of Serbia's Supreme Court. The President shall determine the working time schedule to be published on the notice board at the entrance to the court. Be careful now, the answer in paragraph 3 is placed in a court building, not at the entrance of a court building, for publishing court ads, announcements, and those e-mails that stick to those tables inside, in the halls, when the party is not properly called, and in that case, it is advertised that a hearing has been scheduled or a court ruling has been made. However, I ask the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, Mrs. Vido Skero, to through his organs, i.e. The Board of Supervisors and others who supervise the implementation and application of this Rules of Procedure shall determine whether advertising tables are visible in all municipal courts and shall not differ from that of an ordinary delivery or call. Therefore, on the board of notice at the entrance to the court, citizens should be informed that the working time of the court will be between 7.30 and 15.30. Some courts respect that. Because a large number of citizens can't exercise their right, especially when it comes to official statements, contracts or others. Therefore, I ask the President of the Supreme Court to make sure that the Supreme Court Supervisory Board or in any other way determine whether the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia is applied equally in all courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7273	There's a word from MP Milisav Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7274	Thank you very much. Dear Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 103(1) and Article 104. Rules of Procedure. This for the next reasons. There is a significant issue on the agenda, and it cannot be said that it is irrelevant. On the other hand, we have a large number of commercials here, which, of course, I'm not questioning, and I've never questioned the right of the opposition to impose questions, to ask questions, but here I simply want to warn the measure. We have a situation to ask parliamentary questions although it is said - that it is at the end of the session. We have a situation to talk about many questions. We even have a situation to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then to talk about a subject that's on the agenda. Please, Your Honor, return the debate to the agenda. When it comes to the stability of the state, national, political, economic, social and financial, we all have responsibility, each of course in our own way. It's not just a question that can just skip. Here something is offered that should support both the position and the opposition, of course not questioning the details, where everyone can say what they think, what they suggest better, etc. Here the message is clear -- the government, as one of the answers to this crisis, has offered protection to the depositors, has increased the guaranteed amount from 3,000 to 50,000 euros, and this is the main message, to protect, to secure the depositors' funds, besides the 40 per cent protection already in the mandatory reserve. People, there's no greater enemy in the banking system than fear, mistrust and panic. We all need to keep that in mind, whether it's the government or the opposition. This is the answer to that and the essential question. I call on both of us to support this essence in these laws that have been proposed and to send a message, if I'm not mistaken, most of the 99.76%, if I say so correctly, that their funds are safe. That's the main question. Of course, I appreciate that anyone can question details, but I'm asking you not to turn reporting in the Rules of Procedure into abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I urge you to return to the agenda once again, and within that, we express all our opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7275	I thank you, Mr. Petronievich, and I join your invitation to the MPs. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7276	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, I have come to you because I have the feeling that what we talked about in the afternoon part of the debate, leaving the right to every MP's group, through the form of a question, is a search for the kind of answer that will make it happy both by itself and by the citizens that we represent here. For us from the LDP, it is actually an important element to which we point, which can be identified through the proposal for amendments and additions of these three laws. In fact, we need to talk about the free market and we need to return the essence to that notion of the state, because there is a citizen in the centre of the state itself. So, at any moment of debate, even in those situations that we're talking about money, we need to be aware of that simple fact that we're not talking about money that creates someone else, but about money that makes people who live in this country. There's no doubt that in everything we've been living in for the past 20 years there's some current benefit that can be an extenuating circumstance, but if we rely too much on it, then we're going to pay a much higher price. In the 1990s, we have been led to some short-term benefit, through the fact that we practically have a new banking system, that all the banks present today on our banking market are new banks, that they operate on different conditions than the conditions under which they operate throughout the world because of this legacy of the 1990s. It is true that savings in Serbia are covered by foreign reserves and I don't think I'm wrong to say that foreign exchange reserves are double the amount of savings in our banks. What's really a problem is our definition of foreign savings. We consider foreign savings a concrete expression and some value that cannot be separated from the citizens of this country. We are therefore concerned at all times in which the Government shows the kind of ambition that threatens the free market and which puts citizens' equality at risk. We have one decision that we made in 2000, when the entire state committed itself to returning foreign exchange savings from two private banks, one of which wasn't even a bank, I mean "Yugoscan" bank, even though it was a savings bank, but we took over the obligation to return that foreign savings. The savings were paid back by those who saved and those who had nothing to do with that kind of gambling. The second measure we took was the return of foreign savings to foreign savings in state banks that had lost their foreign exchange savings, even though we were not obliged to look back on such a thing, since we didn't all save in those banks. But that was the measure we tried to establish stability in our system. Today we have a kind of problem that we need to talk about, it's actually the government's need to protect the whole system in one way, and on the other hand, the question of the right to get us, as citizens, into one process where we're not all equal. So, where the government's obligation to protect a bank ends, and when we face situations where only the bank, with all those who make that bank, should pay responsibility for a particular business policy that has led to the position in which it is located, i.e. where these criteria are according to which we can conclude that some bank is suffering from the general global crisis, not the speculations that she's been looking for... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... some greater benefit to yourself. That's the key question for us... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... at this point. The measures we are talking about and when we ask the question where money is, of course, that we are not thinking about some money in the crowd, but we are asking the question primarily with the ambition to respond very clearly to this need -- where the limit between the protection of public interest and the sacrifice of public interest is in the name of some partial interest, regardless of whether it is thousands of savings from a bank. These are very important problems for us. A few days ago, he... (President: Bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... A nationalised bank in Austria for two euros, so we don't have to talk about millions of amounts, but if we're talking about government engagement, bank takeover, government involvement in that kind of economy... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7277	I've asked you twice, and you're not responding. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7278	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Articles 225 and 226, I request a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, during this discussion, it has been repeatedly pointed out that panic has spread in the National Assembly. I would point out more to the fact that it is in the citizens of panic that spreads naked facts and what citizens feel directly in their pockets. In fact, we are witnessing these days that many media outlets highlight the fact that in Serbia, basic living needs and foods are being collected dramatically. Today, we have a text in the daily "Politics" that has the name "Serbian Cup Champion". Such a data suggests that we are witnessing that Serbia is entering a period of time when it comes to the situation that basic life supplies, what we would say "user basket", are becoming more expensive, not to say unsustainable to citizens. It clearly points out that fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products, Zeytin, meat, all of what are basic life-forms, accumulates incomparably more in Serbia than in other cities and other countries. Of course, the key question is what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to do, what does it intend to do, what measures do it take? When it comes to reducing or stopping this trend of gathering basic life-forms, which will take steps to combat monopoly and strengthen competition, which is necessary to protect consumers' fundamental rights. This is what citizens expect at this point from the government of the Republic of Serbia, to get an answer to these questions. Of course, champions and other things, when it comes to gas collection, telecommunications services and anything directly related to the standards and basic living needs of citizens. It's a question that citizens want an answer to, that's what creates panic and what creates basic problems when it comes to the functioning of both states and societies and even stability in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7279	First Mr. Buha, then Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7280	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting again for 225 and 226. I'm looking for an explanation of the legal provisions I said before. This must go in the form of an official request, given that it will cause huge problems in practical application and scares me that it can also cause certain disturbances in the financial sense and possibly various abuses. According to the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, Article 9: "The Agency may, in accordance with the Government Act, take the following measures with the banks referred to in Article 7 of this Act: cover potential losses, take over, buy or otherwise acquire a bad activity, manage bad activity and sell that activity". The amendments and additions to this law also suggest attitude 4, where it says -- to buy on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. Look, these are all the activities that are being conducted in the recovery process. In practice, some countries in Europe, the EU left it. She leaves it all to the regulation system now, but not to the recovery process. We had it by 2005. By passing this bankruptcy law and the liquidation of banks the recovery was cast out as a system. I'm telling you that this article 9 is signed, roughly rewritten, entered here as a measure, a rehabilitation measure, and we have no legal basis to implement the resolution, no possibility, no one to implement it, no means to implement it, no means to implement it. I'm asking the finance minister -- from what means do you plan to make a purchase of potential losses? It's in all systems of huge financial resources. They all have potential losses, banks say that in a special account, and we had various initiatives in the Agency by the banks by 2005. It used to be bought, it wasn't, it was mostly small funds. Now I ask you, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where is the item from which you will provide funds for the purchase of potential losses, poor assets, etc.? What means do you buy action from? I have yet to warn you of the provision of Article 12. The law on the bankruptcy of the disposal of banks and insurance companies, which says - in a bankruptcy proceedings against the bank and the insurance company is not allowed to sell the creditor as a legal person. You didn't comply with one, the other and the third laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7281	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7282	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I have come forward because I think it is necessary to interpret our afternoon debate very carefully. Madam President, maybe all this would make more sense if you respected the Rules of Procedure, so you wouldn't force us to discuss three points of the agenda within the time foreseen for one item of the agenda. That's one of the problems we're facing. We in the LDP have always respected some order in parliament, but it is really very difficult to put into discussion in 14 minutes such serious laws as we are talking about. So, in the shortest time, the US government intervened with 700 billion, and with 250 billion in the banking sector, the UK government £400 billion, the French government nearly 500 billion, Germany 700 billion, Sweden defends the crown with 200 billion. When we ask the question of money, we're interested in a concrete plan. We'd like to have more than abstraction. If there are no conditions to define clear measures, then we need to know. It's also our reality and we don't need to hide it from people. What we need to take care of, I repeat again, is the creation of one belief that the government will be the one to protect anyone who is threatened and who is the victim of the economic troubles that exist at the moment. That's why I think we need to clear this up already during this debate. If the government is under the impression that it will be the one that orders employers to keep workers at all costs, if the government is given the impression that the government will protect any company that fails because it can no longer service its credit because it has lost some market, if the government is given the impression that the government will protect every bank regardless of the degree of risk it has put itself through, then we will make a mistake that is very serious and a mistake that is not characteristic of the recovery programmes resulting from the economic crisis that is being applied and in other parts of the world. At this point, it's a dramatic situation in the US bus industry, but there's no willingness in Congress for the kind of support that would protect General Motors from the bankruptcy at this point. This is what our society needs to know, that these measures are primarily measures that are in the function of preserving the financial system, which must exist and further affirm free market rules. Everything else brings us back to that notion of banking that destroyed the banking system, in which it was normal to go to the bank and get funds from the bank that you can't otherwise get because you're unable to operate by the rules by which you have to function in a normal and healthy economy. That is why it is very important for us to define a clear course of government, which remains unsettled in any situation in which we are seeking to specify some measures. What is the amount of funds the government is willing to invest in this project? That's what banks need to know. The banks need to know to what extent the government is ready to intervene, and in what cases, and how much government will be present in banks and when it will come out of these banks. If you're talking about the way it comes in, then it can be through bonds, through guarantees, through deposits. Now, let me not enter into the specification of all of this, but it is very important that in this debate we deny those expectations that are so expressed right now and that they are turning the government into the first employer of Serbia, and that the government's economic policy transfers exclusively to social policy, which should enable everyone in this country to have some kind of security, which we have no right to, given that we live in a time in which we depend primarily on our abilities. That's what this is about. Thanks for 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7283	Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7284	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People’s Parliament, member of the 27 - president of the National Assembly, performs the work provided for by the Constitution, chaires meetings, etc. And he takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, I answered two questions, I had no intention, but I have to say that I was irritated by the President's behaviour, which does not allow the head of a parliamentary group to finish a sentence, but rather deals with the quasi-saving of time and interruption, when it comes to the essence of exposure, a sentence in half word, and thus is disturbing another 10 MPs automatically to report to the Rules of Procedure for allegedly saving time as a goal. I'm gonna use this to ask two questions. So, it's just something that's been on my mind all along, but I didn't want to interrupt this session because I think there's a consensus about these measures that the government has finally proposed. I would like to ask what is the difference or what happened between the moment these same measures were proposed by LDP MPs, DSS, New Serbia, the SRS, a month ago and today? What new circumstances have arisen, so today the government is acting, to quote the governor of the NBS, as a narrator and spread panicking fear among citizens? What changed then? I will remind you, when the world stock market chaos began in early September, we are most normal, as probably all MPs in all countries in the world, asked that the plenary session of the Assembly discuss this and the impact of this global financial crisis on Serbia. Then we're ridiculed. The governor called us out loud, to remind you. Why does the government spread fear today? What's with the deposit insurance? A formal explanation is, if I am not mistaken, compliance with EU standards. It's really more than funny and more than offensive. Today, Mr Djelic, on a committee, explained how to, for example. The expenditure on the University must be reduced, if I'm not mistaken, due to the global financial crisis. Why does Mr. Djelic spread fear? Is he a nicknamer, too? You know what, Madam President, if you're willing to take the word in half a sentence, I think at the very least you have to show that one feature, which is to protect the MPs of the National Assembly from such statements by the governor, the Minister of Government. And when it is established right, after a month, at least you have so much patience that the parliamentary group instead of 12 and passed for three points of the agenda has the right to report to the Rules of Procedure and show it in three and a half or four minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7285	Mr Popovic has a word. You've exceeded 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7286	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, President, Madam Minister, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. I'm asking a question for our Madam Minister -- when are we going to get the 2009 budget? Of course, we know that this does not depend on Madam Minister, that it depends on the coalition partners in power, whether they agree whether pensions will increase or not, whether they leave the government or not, so I have no personal objection, but I think it's time for you, Madam Minister, to put up your integrity as a stock for something future in this country, because this is tearing down your professional integrity, your dignity, because you can't stand all the coalition losses of your partners. There's another way to react to that, Madam Minister, you can also resign. You're a decent man, we know you as a good professional, you're doing well, you've worked well in previous jobs, people respect you, now all this will fall into the water unless you continue to react to all those coalition appetites of your partners in the government and if you accept all their suggestions. Here, we talked here, all the opposition parties talked about budget rebalancing indeed, and radicals, and liberals, and NS, and DSS etc. and no amendment has been accepted. The IMF said literally everything that we said, that it should reduce public spending, that it should stop investing in ski resorts, I hope that it will be in the budget, we talked about how citizens have been cheated by the coalition in power, especially pensioners, that they will have 70% pensions, and nothing. Is it really necessary for the IMF to come to us and for the government to react in such a way that it behaves the way every government should behave? Now you're pressurized, but what's going to happen, as soon as I saw from the press this where we got the information, I see you're going to fuck subsidies. We need to know that agricultural subsidies are the most important thing in this country. Our biggest exporter is agriculture. If we are to reduce subsidies to agriculture, so Croatia today gives 300 euros, and today we are giving 100 euros and we should reduce those 100 euros, so what are we going to export. The only thing we export and the most we export is agriculture. In what way, then, if we're going to reduce just to satisfy our appetites. At the same time, Madam Minister, you are responsible, I said that the rebalancing is not yours, but the budget, Mrs. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, is yours. You're going to cut subsidies, as I saw in the press today, I hope it doesn't happen to farmers, and you're going to give money to Fiat.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7287	Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7288	I completely understand, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it is difficult to defend something that is indefensible. However, your partner had just come out and made one situation that you had to commit two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 27 and 104. The SPS representative who came out here and said, "Let us work, just to remind him, the SPS isn't on the discussion list at all." I don't know what he thought he was working on. Secondly, both the government and the opposition should vote for this. It was at the time of the Socialist Union, I guess we can criticise something, I guess it's allowed to criticise. As you can see, what we've been saying has proved true, but of course you'll never admit it's true. The second thing, very strange criteria happen in Serbia. If the Resistance does something, and it can set fire to it, it's democratic. Here, a few days ago there was a celebration. But if some other patriotic organizations protest a hundred and a few days, and they don't burn anything, they don't hurt anyone, and now there's a traffic problem. I'm not surprised that Tadic received it, etc., but I'm surprised that Dacic is applying such double arches. Just one more thing, since you're trying to make this logical, etc., you haven't figured out Mr. Petronievich. He went out and criticized you for hurting a corresponding member of the Rules of Procedure. Because from your party, you said you agree with him, but before he did, I told you something like that, you disagreed with me, and we almost said the same thing. It's this little finesse of how the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works and about the same as the annual "Red Star" football club assembly. You watched the uncle they picked last night. He says I'm not a party person, but I always vote for DS. That's what the man said. So here's the criterion for whether you voted for DS. He probably also became a professor of economics because he voted for the DS. So is this deposit law, citizens, because it will be the law that protects your money, and we will have the situation of Mladjan Dinkic. First he destroyed our banks, and then he jumped to the National Savings Bank, and then he was interested in Lutra and those lists, and then he jumped to ski resorts a little bit, and then he jumped to free action, and then he jumped to "Fiat," and now he jumps and says, "Let's develop exports to North Africa and Asia," and in 2000 he said you're not ashamed to hang out with Russia and China. It is our cruel reality thanks to Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7289	Mr. Krasic, if you really said what Mr. Petronijevic said, then I'm joining you, I couldn't figure it out. Mr. Chiquiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7290	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I think we really need, despite these jokes, to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, to give seriousness to a very important topic. In favour of the seriousness of my work, I give up my discussion that I have announced, but I will use my time in the Rules of Procedure as someone who has long worked in the insurance sphere. My insurance company owns a bank, a brokerage house. I think I'm qualified, since I've been through a lot with the company, to talk about the effects of all changes in regulations and what our entire system has been through. Let's remember, $10,000 was the founding role of insurance organizations. By amending the law he was raised, depending on the insurance sphere, to a million and 200 thousand, a million and a half or two dollars. An internal and external audit of the maltene that didn't exist. Internal audit was not mandatory under the law, and external audit was done by absolutely unqualified people. The moment the National Bank of Yugoslavia took control of the business of insurance companies and when it passed qualified regulations for the control of the banking system, x-rays, there are valid indicators of insolvency and security and insurance organisations and banking systems at any moment. Unlike some years when the state used fraud, no one here mentioned Dafina or Jezda, or what in central information shows showing safes full of German marks, we all know that that's not how money is placed and kept in safes. There's something else in the safes, and it pays to rent safes. It was all cut off in 2000, and it seems to me that the subsequent amendments and additions to the laws in these areas have been made in these areas as well as the most significant reform move. I don't think anyone mentioned here, despite the fact that there are foreign-capital banks, that they are registered in our country, that they operate under domestic regulations and that they have, that's what the finance minister said, the obligation to keep 40% of their capital in the central bank. This is better compared to many solutions, even in the EU, in which mortgage banks place much more funds, they hold much more money in central banks and because of the constant building of immovable property, which was not the case with us. Now we have a sudden increase in building real estate. At one point, a large number of mortgages appeared that were realised. There was a huge supply of real estate, and that's why the price went down, so these banks had a breakdown, but we have a different situation. Since I'm running out of time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7291	Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7292	Mr President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, I am reporting in accordance with Article 225 and 226, and disowning the discussion in order to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, but I will only finish what I wanted to say. I don't think that's how the Parliament's dignity is kept, I can give up, but I'm going to finish what I was going to say. Here's the thing, we're passing these laws, the government proposed them. About a month and a half ago, when we asked him to respond to this crisis, we were told that we should not react to the crisis. Now we have these three laws and this law on increasing deposit insurance, and we don't have a budget. On the other hand, we read daily in the paper that some big debate in the government is about pensions. I'm here with the IMF. We don't want the IMF. We want the IMF. We want counseling. We're not consulting. We've got a stand-by. We really, from the LDP, want to help the government, and that is why we have proposed that set of measures that combines reduction, say, excise, reduction of VAT rates in the entire energy sector, and, on the other hand, increase the taxation of those actions that are privileged, among other things, to be monopolies, so whether they're state or private, and we know that we're about to get a monopoly on foreign countries. Somehow, it seems to us that what we've been giving our monopolies should not be given to foreign monopolies. In that sense, all countries are trying to avoid recession, when they have already fallen into the financial crisis, by pumping funds into banks, so that banks can maintain economic activity, so that companies don't work, that people don't fire. We can do that if we cut public spending. We see that we will continue to have a budget deficit in that budget that we are waiting for as a hungry year, but I guess we'll wait for it. We think that the measures proposed by us provide businesses and banks with money, i.e. liquid assets in the way in which the market regulates it. We really think that the proposed solution, under which the Deposit Insurance Agency will be entitled to buy bank actions, is not a market solution that a liberal party can support. Everyone wants to maintain the liquidity of financial institutions and pump money. We keep the money instead of releasing through the mandatory reserve and the policies of the National Bank frozen for inflation. On the other hand, instead of the state tightening the belt, it reduces public spending by reducing, say, excises and all these taxes, say, taxes on earnings, allowing employers to keep the level of employment, if they can't already increase it in these difficult times. It's all the opposite. We see great inconsistencies in that. We can't wait for that budget, but what's going on... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... points out, unfortunately, that the budget won't go far away from that rebalance. We really think it's about time the government came to their senses. We will support it, but say that an increase in the guaranteed deposit to 50,000 harmonisations with the EU does not seem serious to us, since we all know it is an attempt to restore citizens' confidence in banks. Say it Serbian. It's no shame. We know this is the situation and we're moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7293	Mr. Milan Avramovic, then Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7294	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the basis of Article 104 - dignity of the Assembly, I had to go out and defend what we had said in the previous period at this session. So I was talking about a rally that was banned in the Republic Square and I don't think that's an important question. If we consider that the rally organised by the SRS, which was called "The All-Serb Assembly against the betraying regime of Boris Tadic", is well orchestrated and implemented in such a way that one human life is lost, I fear it will not happen again. For those reasons, I've come out, I know that this topic is important to some of us. For those who went out for this payphone to say that it is an important topic and advertise Article 103, they are not on the list to speak on this subject, so please, dignity, president, hold, at least remind the MPs of your party. They don't participate in the work. They're not on the list to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7295	I need to intervene. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic is under regular number seven on this list. You've been telling the truth a few times. I don't mean you, but the MPs of your MP group. So it's just about an MP who's on the list for the discussion. Excuse me and continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7296	Then we don't have the same list. I'm sorry, the list I have you gave me, and that's why I reacted as I reacted, but it's very important, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that it's not a violation of dignity, that we have a problem, that maybe the violent end of this protest won't be tonight, even though the police have accumulated. That it could be tomorrow when the Assembly is gone and that the order you're following and the MP you're calling for wasn't yesterday when it was a football game, it wasn't a week ago when it was a tennis game. Do not honor something that is really not correct, especially by the position of the opposition. Maybe that's the other way around, but in this case, it really doesn't make sense. One human life is lost. We need to lose another human life to bring them to their senses. Don't do that. The violent interruption of any rally on your democracy leads only to the loss of human lives and unfortunately it has never been solved. We'll talk about it another time, so I don't abuse time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7297	Life is the highest value, and truth is also highly valued in the system of values. Djordje Milicevic is under regular number one, and Milisav Petronijevic is under regular number seven on the list that you and I have, and you know it well, and I don't know why we come into conflict. (Milan Avramovic, from the place: I apologize. Say sorry to the others. Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7298	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Representatives of the Government, Rule 104. We have pointed to one problem that we see in these governmental measures, it is the absence of clear criteria that leave too much freedom to the government, and on the other hand, that freedom, as much as it is the result of one good intention to do and help, can produce much greater expectations than the possibility of the government, which brings us back to one position where equality and relations will be asked, because where a commitment to a bank ends, and some who are also the victim of this economic crisis begins. Look at the perspective of someone who's engaged in the construction industry and who's just the victim of this economic crisis. The government does not show willingness to help the construction industry through one system of measures that we have proposed, and therefore we consider these measures a half solution. As good as they are, they won't be celibate because they're missing a whole series of measures. The government has been told that it will tighten its belt by cutting subsidies. We've always been very critical of the subsidy policy. The question arises -- what is the perspective of our agrarian that we leave without subsidies and, let's say, we unilaterally apply a trade agreement with the EU that is good, provided that we can have pre-accession funds that compensate for the damage resulting from the fact that the subsidy in Europe is 400 euros, and with us, not to talk about these amounts, they are minimal. We need comprehensive measures. This is how the Ministry of Finance becomes a victim of the government's expectations, on the one hand, to patch up all the holes that are obvious in this public spending, on the other hand, to support everything that cannot function independently in Serbia. We see a big problem in that. So we proposed as a solution, firstly, to discuss defining the economic measures that included these measures now proposed by the government, but they went a step further in all of this, so they said where all the state could save and in what way the state could help without being a form of direct subsidies. So let's see how it can be done in the construction industry, which is a major victim of these circumstances, what's going to happen to housing loans. Other governments in the world that have reacted, as our own now responds, to some financial support for the banking sector, have simultaneously lowered the interest rate and thus fought the recession, which our central bank cannot do, because our public finances are so overheated that it explodes the course. We must offer a common answer to this question and expect this debate to continue and that the sooner we start the debate and the remaining package of measures, which would then make us equally responsible, as are all the other governments that are looking for solutions at the moment. The deal with the IMF is supported, but the deal itself is not the solution. Expecting the IMF to be found guilty of economic hardships, and not ourselves, is an expectation that may have short-term effects, but we cannot keep hiding behind some bogeyman, so at one point it was the legacy of Milosevic's 1990s, at one point it was an irresponsible opposition, in the third IMF imposed something on us... (President: Time. What else can we not agree to? Generally, we have these three principles, criteria for the government, insufficient measures and, of course, where the government's border is bound to distance from everyone who has an economic problem. That's very important to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7299	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic has a word, and then Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7300	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I speak here under Rule 226. In a Sunday list, I think the paper is very serious and analytical, it is "NIN", has an interesting statement by the director of the National Employment Service, which insists that the global economic crisis will bypass Serbia, i.e. bypassing the employment service. In other words, there will be no layoffs in Serbia and employment rates will grow. On the other hand, in Serbia, we have several days of mass layoffs. Recently, the president of the Republic, Mr. Boris Tadic, said we should all tighten the belt to sort of ease the global economic crisis. But that warning seems to me to be too late for some. They will no longer be in a position to do anything, to tighten the belt, to put the noose around their necks. People are out of work. Today's strike at Leskovac in the drug factory. The release of workers in Sevojn has been announced. According to experts, 100,000 people in Serbia will be out of work next year. Until recently, in this story that has been going on for days around budget rebalances, we have warned you of any possible consequences. What were you doing? Head in the sand. Here's a statement from the Director of the National Employment Service -- we'll be bypassed by the global economic crisis. Did she get around us? It's not. We're just entering the wide open door. What's the government doing? Nothing. The government that's made up of an economically defiant coalition, we've shown you hundreds of times how economically dissuaded you are, what are you spending all your money on? Not to repeat all those items in the budget rebalancing we've instructed you. It's not a frame, it can't, it can't stand up to the world's economic crisis. The government is completely irresponsible, insecure and unable to lead this country and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7301	Thank you. Mr Popovic, then Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7302	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, 225, 226. Question for Madam Minister - what will the Government do with Telekom, is it really intended to go to this initial public offer? Today, if someone wants to sell Telekom, and the government probably wants to sell Telekom, nothing personal, we know where that wind blows, if the government wants to sell Telekom, that she's looking at a worse moment in history, the worse moment she couldn't find. Today is the worst time to sell Telekom. Also, the question is, why is it going to the Bora sale now? If we couldn't sell it at several stages in the last two years, why go now when the price of copper was never lower, when it was never harder to get financial resources on the capital market, why today? Of course, we know that to fill the gaps in the budget and satisfy the appetites of coalition partners. If there is any plan and programme regarding the banks and the banking market, we have not seen any information about what Prime Minister Cvetkovic and the government are thinking about today. What about "The First Five," what about Krusik from Valjev, what about EI Nis, what about companies in Kursumlia, what about enterprises in Prokuplje? There's no clear action plan. We've been doing this for the tenth time here in the Assembly for the last two months. There must now be crisis management in the government of the Republic of Serbia for the Serbian economy. The Serbian economy will be on its knees in February-March next year. Already, any company in the Republic of Serbia is now a huge problem in obtaining credit. Everyone has to go back, and to refinance, I don't know what way they're gonna go. They all pay back, they don't get new loans. It's a huge problem. He's, of course, worldly, but there's a problem here. There's not a single way instead of what we suggested. We have proposed concrete measures, that a part of the funds be allocated to the Development Fund, or that a new fund be formed that would deal exclusively with helping the Serbian economy. In this way, when virtually all European countries help their economies, not only Europe, Russia also, China did a huge thing the other day, 600 billion euros in the first run to help the economy, we do not have a single measure today. I can't imagine what's going to happen at the beginning of next year with companies that employ close to 150 thousand-200 thousand workers, who are still state-owned. On the one hand, we don't help these companies, we don't have any aid measures, and we invest in completely unnecessary projects. (President: Time. ) Please think carefully about this and let the government come out with concrete measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7303	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, then Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7304	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I ask Ms. Minister for answers that LDP MPs today, based on a debate on these three laws, are asking for. The first question is: what are the criteria that the Agency and the Government will use in taking over banks; how much funding are planned for the Agency to use for these purposes and will the new 2009 budget provide for these funds? Also, when certain Serbian government ministers speak of belt tightening for 2009, namely by drafting a new budget, it is necessary that the ruling parties and ministers start already today with the belt tightening. It is unacceptable to use state funds to fund pre-election campaigns by certain ruling coalition political parties, which were used in a pre-election campaign in four municipalities where elections were held last weekend. It's inadmissible and there's nothing we can do about it. My question also moves in this direction: how much has the Serbian Government spent in the last month on the territory of the municipality of Prepolje, for which projects and for what purposes?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7305	Mr. Krasic. I thought you gave up, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7306	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I must warn you of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. A moment ago, Mr Popovic came out here and said some things that question dignity, not only of the National Assembly, but also of the wider. He said that the government of the Republic of Serbia has no plan towards the economy and that by March anything could happen and that the government is working on the principle of "slo burns, the grandmother combs". Mr Popovic, you insulted the author of this series and insulted the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia takes great care, as an employer, of state service employees. I have to correct you. The government of the Republic of Serbia, judging by the rebalancing we were considering a few days ago and you saw that argument in the end, you saw that in the collection, which is state, para-state, etc., it is an employer for 260 thousand employees: 40 and a few thousand police officers, 30 and a few thousand soldiers, army employees from the DS in state institutions. I don't want to tell you about those recycling counselors at that "let's go, go to Europe," so Monday he gets a slap there, then he bends his tail, runs off here and shuts up. He's not here. He can't come here. Look, Djelic, he's gone, he's not allowed in that building, he's not allowed in. Please, let me just correct you, they take care of that furniture. A little bit of Milan Markovic jumped out a few days ago, when he said 12,000 people from local self-government would be fired from work. It's just the beginning. You're saying this government has no vision. I get the impression they don't even have eyes. All that matters to them is that RTS, B92, Blic and their newspaper are building a media hall – something is happening, Europe is looking forward to, Europe loves us, Europe adores us, etc. Here we have three draft laws where they should show their concern for the deposits of natural persons, which are located in banks, as it is protected, that's for sure. Anything else can be a flood in this country, those deposits are safe. It's a new media manipulation and a new message to the voters: trust us, we'll cheat on you. That message that's been since DS, I have to tell you, it's about like this: just vote for us, see what happens to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7307	The sixth time you've advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure in the last hour and a half. Sir, I'll stay, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7308	Presidents, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Art. 225 and 226. I'm taking the opportunity because we have the honor and pleasure of having someone from the government who's willing to listen to it for days and days to come and answer it. So I appeal to you, Madam Minister, that in these activities that exist now with regard to budgeting, the government is indeed making an effort to make a consistent plan, not a piece like this. Because when we said, people, snap out a little bit, that what comes here is to prevent everyone together, and when someone called us panic-spanking people, because everything here is great, etc., when we proposed to increase the guaranteed deposit, it was 3,000, we thought the economic possibilities of the country at that point allowed 10,000. When you say, here, we've increased to 50,000, it doesn't seem very relaxing in any way. Because the citizens will say, wait, there is no money, and they guarantee 50,000 because it is so in Germany or Slovenia. On the other hand, what's in it for citizens who have been fired these days, say, at the Remont Institute in Chačka, what's in it for citizens who don't have deposits, so that doesn't interest them? This is why we appeal to a consistent economic plan that needs to be made for next year, because the crisis is and in this crisis someone will be worse off, someone, like in any crisis, will be fine. Therefore, we think that businesses and citizens should be left with more money through the reduction of certain taxes, and that money should be compensated from those who have a privileged position on the market, which have a monopoly, etc. There's a lot of monopolies here, and it says so in the commission's report. One of Serbia's major pains in the economy and in general Serbia's social life are monopolies. We know that competition is possible everywhere, that competition knocks prices, that competition does good to citizens, improves service. And in some things, it's impossible to compete. There are natural monopolies and there is impossible competition. We have a monopoly in the gas and oil industry, there can't be competition. For now, the whole of Europe is getting gas from Russia. So we think that those who are in a privileged position have to bear the burden of this crisis, that they have to be taxed extra, so that those other people who fall asleep, that others who can barely put an end to this end, that they can't let people go. (President: Time. ) Normally, the state as the biggest employer has to make an example, it has to reduce public spending and it's good that you're as an alibi, when you haven't already had the political courage and the strength to stand behind reducing public spending, took and agreed with the IMF to be a cover, conditionally said, something that all citizens know should be done, which is state savings.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7309	Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7310	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, as much as it seems in vain at first sight, we will insist on getting answers on these very serious issues. It's a matter of criteria. It's a question of the width of the measures that the government thinks it's coming, because we think this space is too narrow and we don't think the government can act exclusively in the area of banking. Of course, it's a question of the limits of government action. The government cannot become a service to any kind of economic problem and to any of the actors in our economic life. Since the country's economic policy has been stepped up by the IMF, then in all this we recognize an additional argument for this kind of demand. If we look at the relationship between the IMF and our northern neighbour in Hungary, then we'll see that the IMF has entered Hungary for a completely different reason than those for which it enters here. As far as we know, we are not withdrawing any direct money at this point from the IMF, but by agreeing to this kind of arrangement and economic policy, we are opening ourselves up to the possibility of withdrawing half a billion dollars or euros in some kind of crisis, this is the information we faced during today. If I'm wrong, I guess someone will fix us, and I think I've interpreted it correctly. However, how has Hungary defined its relationship to the banking sector? The money received from the IMF by the Hungarian government is ready to make available to banks, but there are clear criteria. First, banks should make their demands known in time, explain them, and then be able to, together with the financial support and resources the government has made available, they further invest their share of direct funds to address economic problems. The particular question is the fact that the economic problems of the states that have entered into arrangements with the IMF are different from those of ours. We're lucky that we're not over-indebted, like the country's over-indebted, that there hasn't been a major outflow of capital from abroad, or there's never really been a lot of it, and that's also true. The problem is actually bigger, because this is a dead market, one of the very three economies. In fact, she's incapable of reacting the way she has to react in order to survive and transform quickly. That's why we insist on these few simple messages. The message that this government does not think to be the only actor of economic life in the country, that the government wants to help those who need help to be able to function on their own tomorrow. Let's make the government take over their role on itself, so by the circumstances, next to the central bank, it's practically the only banker in this society. The third very important question is the free market mechanisms, i.e. the liberalisation of our economy, which is also too tight with the strict norms that are being imposed. Some of them are good. At this point, they show good and positive effects, and these are the criteria of the National Bank, the central bank, that high reserve obligation, the mandatory deposit, etc. All this together now is putting a terrible pressure on our exports. That's a big problem. We have a trade deficit, also a big problem. The labour market is under great pressure also by a very confusing government policy, which often goes into the sphere of social demagogy, which is unacceptable for us. Thank you, ma'am, for this minute, I think we've asked these enough questions, and I'm leaving the government the opportunity to answer them today or to later face them in some new debate and talk the same way we're talking today about the measures we proposed more than a month ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7311	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7312	Madam President, that is what happens to you when you have irresponsible MPs from the majority who come out here and challenge the avalanche of replicas and reactions, and even when you extend the work of the Assembly to one holiday when many people celebrate in Serbia. I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate all the citizens who celebrate the glory of the Holy Witch and to congratulate you personally as a doctor, because I know that your glory is too. I don't know where to start, because everything that's been said in the last two hours of the Rules of Procedure is said in various segments. I'll try to sublime all criticism at the expense of the proposed law through one different way. So this proposed law has, in my opinion, come with a certain delay and when the adverse consequences have already arisen. All of the world's economies, i.e. all of the serious countries, have taken comprehensive measures to prevent the damage that will take place in the global economic crisis several months ago, when the crisis was at hand and when we, as a parliamentary group of DSS, proposed this in early October by increasing the reserve, i.e. secured deposits to 20,000 euros. We got a laugh from a government official. Today is November 14th, and it is evident that certain consequences and damages have occurred that this law only comes today on the agenda and when it is being discussed today, and the damage has been translated into figures, so that we have nearly 500 or 450m euros in withdrawing money from the banks by citizens. So, the citizens retreated, frightened by the global economic crisis and, above all, by not responding to the adequate government, to withdraw their money from the banks. We have made it clear that they have no confidence in banks or in the state. Now the government is trying to restore this trust, and I'm afraid that one measure will not be enough and that it will be late. This law could come to the agenda when we proposed, at the end or mid-October, to be adopted, and already in November we would have a much greater effect, less withdrawal of money from banks and greater investment in the month of savings. The prime minister has pledged that within these measures, it will be proposed that interest be abolished at the expense of citizens. There's no such thing as a bill. So, on many occasions, the representatives of the government send messages and promises that have not been fulfilled and have in some way affected the loss of trust of citizens in power, the state, the system. Pensions are promised to be 70% of the salary, so after analysis and shouting and a rescue solution that the global economic crisis does not allow it, that promise has fallen into the water. A white Schengen was promised, so it was moved to 2009, so yesterday we saw that it was not certain for 2010. It has been promised that Serbia will be a candidate for EU entry in 2009, so we heard the other day that it will be absolutely difficult to implement. There are promised to be new big investors, new jobs, and there is nothing from that promise and existing investors are withdrawing from the country. It has been promised that there will be 200,000 new jobs with new authority. The situation today is that in the last month several hundred workers or thousands of workers have been fired. Yesterday, 200 people were fired in Leskovac Health. The State, or Government, is taking certain measures by proposing this law that is not disputed, but what about other measures? Comprehensive measures have been promised to prevent the adverse consequences of the financial crisis, and all serious countries have focused these measures, in addition to measures of this nature, which are primarily marketing to further strengthen citizens' confidence in the country, other measures are directed primarily at the economy. We do not have these incentives for the economy, but rather the economy is being burdened further. How do you put extra weight on it? By unilaterally starting with the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which encourages the import lobby, and Serbia's economy, though not strong enough, will not be able to cope with lower prices than large giants from the world that will place their products in Serbia. The second blow to Serbia's economy, which is in fact the backdrop of the country's budget and development, is that the National Bank has raised the reference interest rate to nearly 18%, citizens have raised their roles. How will banks and under what conditions lend that economy? There's no reason for banks under 22, 23 or 25% to lend loans to the economy. What company is going to withstand such a burden and such interest rates? There are fewer and fewer loans in the Serbian economy, it absolutely implies that there will be fewer productions and fewer jobs anyway, the low intensity of economic production in Serbia will fall further, the economy will be exposed to high pressure from the import lobby, it will not be able to obtain favourable loans, its products will be expensive. And the latest measure, i.e. the latest promise, which I know in advance will be very difficult, and almost impossible, I am almost certain, is the promise and signing of a pompous annex of a collective contract, where 7,000 dinars are promised to the monthly employees of Serbia. Where will the economy pay for it? The country, which is the biggest employer, will have to allocate more than 25 million dinars on this basis if it wants to keep its promise. Where will that budget come from? Who will fill Serbia's budget for this much consumption? So they're going to freeze to pay, but on this basis they're going to have to separate another 25 billion dinars. The result, I'm afraid, will be a major stagnation of the Serbian economy, and the stagnation of the Serbian economy will fall both employment, will fall and standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7313	Mr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7314	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that finally the government and the governor have agreed on what measures should be taken to stabilise the expected impact on our financial system. Likely, by analogy that many Western countries have done so, where powerful banks and state institutions intervened on the market to restore the security and reliability of banks, insurance companies, etc. Perhaps this is also an indication that the more naturalized and teaching of one and the other institutions, the governor towards the prime minister and vice versa, has ceased in an attempt to stabilise our national currency, where several hundred million euros have already been placed, without clear indications that we will be in a position to avoid at least double-digit inflation. What is offered by this draft law amending the Deposit Insurance Act is an amendment in a member who makes such an amendment that the state is now able to intervene by an extended method of measures introduced through point 4, redeem on behalf of and at the expense of the Government of the actions of those banks that threaten financial stability. This extended the basic law to the fourth point, so next to three, there is a fourth one, and that there have not been any consequential changes in Articles 7, 8, but also in Article 3 of the Law itself, in which the Agency does not provide for the possibility of buying shares, but to sell in a certain way, control or privatise an insurance company or bank. This, of course, has been valid without complete changes so far, this is a partial change, only for those financial institutions or for those insurance companies in which the state was a shareholder, minority or majority. So she could sell those shares, privatize them, but so far she couldn't buy them. On condition, it can be said that at point 2 of Article 9 of the existing law she could take over, buy the acquired bad activity of one of the banks. However, the proposed change, conditionally, means in this poor activity there may be bank actions, except for, for example, unpaid claims, and bad bank actions on the market. What has been achieved by the change in Article 9, with only three words being erased, except for "Article 7 of this Law". When this was deleted from Article 7 of this Act, by automation, and the legislator does not hide that his intention is to support and assist banks, independent of ownership, therefore private banks. Indeed, if the state starts by budgeting, point by point, from first to fourth, intervenes with those non-solved banks, which are not covered, it means that it may have to give money to some management or to some private bank owner, who will be covered by state capital, all to preserve the stability of the banking system. The other question is, how many, if there are at the same time several banks that are in a similar situation, can get the expected aid under this law, by buying them actions, whether or not there will be any preference, will it be a question of the share of actions that will be able to buy out the state? If he doesn't buy a majority package of actions, it'll make sense to intervene at all, because if he stays the same management, the same board of directors, in which case nothing has been obtained. You give only then in a delayed manner the right to management and board of directors, but legally secured, that someone will buy him action if he does not work well, to continue to waste actions or not to give God an investment in Albania, or somewhere else, in the Federation where Republika Srpska is, and then that our citizens cover the funds from the budget of poor bank operations. Whether this law, this intervention, allows or provides for a rule, which I suppose so far in the liberal economy did not exist, that responsibility for poor credits is collective, and the benefit of those who took credit is individual, even if it was citizens, if it was done by some firms or if it was a complete bank, ensuring themselves that it really works well and good wages, came into a position that the state is now subsidized in a certain way, extracting from the mud, and that they themselves do not feel any coincidence. It's hard to believe if the state doesn't take 50% of the action. If she takes 50% of the stock and more, then she becomes the owner, it's the state of banks, and then maybe she can still intervene. What about those interventions where you don't get the right to decide in a bank? This means that we will go to buy out shares that are not solvents, which may not be able to be sold quickly on the market or sold at a lower price. Whether the state will now be able to exercise its right to share, the dividends of action -- of course not, because those actions are sinking. To sink those shares into these smaller banks and insolvent, insolvent banks, is proof that they are often where dividends are successful and do not share. They begin to share dividends only when the value of the stock falls, and then by buying these dividends, they allow these shares to be bought to a greater or lesser extent to deprive themselves of bad actions. So this possibility of this proposal certainly opens up the likelihood that the state will selectively, in our still unclear way that the National Bank will propose to the government, which for these criteria will be, intervene on the market and budget will empty in this direction, instead of helping to form banks or other institutions that would develop economy - employment, and the development of economy and national income to rise, etc. If these are the measures that need to be taken psychologically to raise confidence in the financial system, then it can be at first sight interesting and promotional for this government. But the question is, is it really available to the funds that can be intervened, because the inflow of capital on the side is obvious in this country, it has been repeated several times today, increasingly smaller and smaller. The financial institutions are slowly losing importance, and we will obviously pay for what is coming, and one of the measures proposed by this law is not enough and is not enough and is not enough to get out of this crisis, which is so far threatening; it is threatening because the National Bank does not come out with a list of banks that have fallen to that level to be helped. The fall is likely to be expected, or soon it will be embezzled as such. Therefore, we do not think there are enough reasons for the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group to support the law amending the Deposit Insurance Agency's law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7315	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zoran Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7316	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think it's much better when you work on a new Rules of Procedure that you don't have that provision at all, because no matter what they write in that Rules of Procedure, you move on. You're being driven further as Anto Boskovic last night at the annual Red Star Assembly. They couldn't attend the best Red Star players, and I guess club management exists because of the players, and last night I decided that players exist because of the administration. Here, this is the situation right here. Yesterday, the poor man boasted that he had glued the posters of Vojislav Seselj and calculated that he deserved the mandate of the MPs, and probably deserved it, but to be in the SRS parliamentary group. However, when something went out and went there, something farted and went, he no longer has that mandate, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I couldn't agree more with you. You're countrymen. You have to be careful. You respect these things, but the Constitution doesn't know about these country relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7317	Please, Mr. Krasic, the terms you use are not in line with your intellectual potential.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7318	My intellectual potentials are just trying to prove to you and tell you that you have far more intellectual potential and that there are intruders here. But you hold them, I don't hold them. People don't hold them, they don't vote for them to be out there, but either here or outside the building. You guys keep supporting it. I can understand, here's a few days ago, the Resistance celebrated 10 years of Serbia's success. I can understand that. Boris Tadic took them in, he took them in a little bit, but he took them in. But I don't know with what right do you support resistance cuts - destroying everything that's state-of-the-art, destroying the Constitution and the law? Of course, every time a situation like this happens, someone from the SRS will come out to show the public what's going on. These credit experts, you see, and the citizens will vote, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, but when they vote they should vote on it -- what is their standard of living and who brought them into this situation, not who is beautiful, in which newspapers, how he was photographed and who he took pictures with. You're looking to turn it around - make it nice in the paper, baby. Everyone else is primitively simple. You're very good, you're good, you're heavy, you've stolen, you've taken everything, you've taken it a little bit, so now let's do the mandates to steal. You used to invite fast Gonzales here to guard your mandates. Against whom you called him - against Mrs. Djukic and her party. Now you're united, now you're sophisticated, now you're stronger, now you're engrossed. And one and the other brought forth messengers out of here, and one and the other took away the immunity of the Messengers; why should you rule? Now you're united and now you're much stronger. That's not true? How is that not true? You remember your friend Desimir Tosic hiding immunity from the MPs to answer, to be in Gjilan in prison. There is Filip Stojanović, if you remember this MP and if you remember your Desimir Tosic. And you remember, okay. What you've been doing. And what have you experienced? You've united - great. So you turn on each other. (President: time. I warn you, I will not beg that the Constitution and the law apply in this country. As far as the SRS is concerned, we did everything as you instructed. The blocking of state authorities on the orders of Boris Tadic is the problem of Boris Tadic, this state and these authorities, but I do not tolerate this situation as illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7319	You want to bring the discussion to an end. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milivojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7320	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Whatever you want, Mr. Krasic, the entire Rules of Procedure can be applied to you, from the first to the last attitude and the member, you regularly hurt him. My nemesis isn't that I'm plowing with you here. You have very rudely insulted Mr Desimir Tosic here. Mrs Radeta, today in this country it is very easy to teach a man who is uneducated, today it is very easy to teach a simple man, today it is very easy to learn those who show a desire to learn, but it is impossible to teach those who, ignorant and simple, want to be teachers of others. It's really a difficult mission in this country, and I think it's very difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7321	Please use the terms according to the dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7322	I'm really only talking about what's going on here and what's going on in this assembly room. I really can't let people who died talk about themselves like this. Mr Desimir Tosic has passed away. You here constantly insult people who have passed away. It's about you, not us. It's about the strength of your idea, not the strength of our idea. I have one important thing to mention. I'm going to go out here one day for this assembly pay phone and tell you everything that you are, which was recorded by the stenographic notes, about your party friends yesterday. Just remember the words of praise you used to spread about them here in December of last year in the election campaign. Just remember how nice and positive and affirmative you were talking about Tomislav Nikolic. Now I have to go out for this pay phone and read it. I think the citizens of Serbia remember that. If you've forgotten, I'd be happy to arrange a reminder. But now I'm asking you to get back to the agenda and really return the dignity that this home needs so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7323	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7324	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the strength of my ideas and ideas of my friends is evident, but the power of Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's match is even more evident. The power of his match was - a burning National Assembly, a burning RTS and a great miracle, it was renovated by Mr Dragoljub Micunovic, and the G17 found that it was also an affair around the spending of these funds. What did I cheat on? What did I lie about? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Everything. There's no record of that Lucic guy of yours? So we waved that record, did we show it? Did that record bring in G17 plus, tax administration? We lied to everyone. I lied that Desimir Tosic voted to confiscate the immunity of Vojislav Seselj. And I lied to you. I also lied that the helicopter was driven by Milet Ilic and Zarko Jokanovic. You don't know that, you can't possibly not know. No, it hurts to remember someone. I remember everything you've done and what you're about to do. That's why I warn these citizens, I warn you, that you know what black clouds are over Serbia. Today it was Serge Brammertz to make a deal. What's the deal? How to proceed with the destruction of Serbia. Why don't we talk about Eulex, why don't we talk about mistrust with the government? Why have you submitted amendments - you, SPS, G17 plus? To buy time. Why buy time? In silence, you'll do some work far from the citizens, and you'll talk through the media. About what? It's about good behavior. Srdjan Milivojevic warns someone of good behavior. Well, is there more irony in this country? A man who boasted about funding him from the West. For what? To destroy, nonviolent resistance, to destroy the state, and you from the SPS think with which devil you plant pumpkins.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7325	Mr. Micunović. Perhaps it would be most useful for everyone to think about the perspective of his parliamentary group and party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7326	It's known I don't go to replicas. It's very, very rare. We have people here who use one member of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure not to answer the words they pronounce from the pay phone. It is good to protect parliament, so that there are no abuses and that a man here can't go to court for that. But unfortunately, many realize that this is a great opportunity to slander both the living and the dead, to tell lies and to express themselves in the worst way possible. This need to destroy people and memories of them is well - known in history in the worst regimes that exist. That's why I wouldn't talk about it, or anything else. A certain person who was here before me said impossible things. Of course, here, so you wouldn't answer elsewhere. It's all inaccuracy. But a memory of a man buried in an alley of giants, like a man who has contributed greatly to democratisation, the theory of democracy, etc. He was defamation of life than many, that he was no less of the poor and died and lived, that he worked for the DB. That's what people say, whose entire party was impregnated with this DB, where they waved all the DB reports. Who do they tell? One poor Desimir Tosic, who wrote 30 books on democracy, and here, leaving his family in London, lived alone on the hill to write and give lectures. If we don't have the dignity to let some people, if we don't love them, let's not mention them. But that need to destroy every possible, any size and dignity of humans, goes beyond all limits. She's talking, of course, about people, people who say that. They're talking election results and they'll talk later. Such behavior has brought nothing to anyone. I wouldn't go out now because of everything this predecessor is talking about, if not for one man whose memory we want to guard and who has used his entire righteous life for the good of this people. He came under the old days to work here, to help one country, that, unlike other emigrants, both commandos and others, he worked to enlighten the people and his good. It is a matter of this House's dignity to honor the memories of its people. It's lucky every MP finds a picture of himself tomorrow. To say, he was in that parliament, he worked, and he didn't just take every chance to spit out, tarnish, or I don't know how he resented it. That's why I urge us to stay away from it, because things remain in writing, no matter how much we use these means, it's all, all these spits, come back to them. Desimir Tosic! You forgot what was going on, who was pulling out of a pay phone, throwing away microphones, who was watering the presidents? You forget what's going on, what's going on here. Excuse me, an honorable man does not then hide behind immunity, but says - please, if I am guilty, defend, it must be the parliament that takes it off his cheek. Now you're a dead man after 10 or 15 years, and you're putting it on your nose that he did it for mercenaries. Well, out of that party came a whole party with Glamocian and went to another party, it's known for what money, and they write about it themselves in newspapers for which money and apartments have crossed over. Now you're selling someone the purity story here. By yesterday half the party or more, as far as I don't know, it went the other way. Now overnight they're all possible thieves. Here you assured us there were no thieves in the Radical Party, not one single one. I believed you it was the only decent party, while all thieves. Now here we hear, from morning to night, about the most terrible thieves, the houses, the wonders that have happened. (President: Time, Mr. Micunovic. ( ) Thus, neither does he defend his own party nor the dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7327	The word is Mrs. Radeta, so Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7328	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, of course I speak on the basis of Article 104, but I don't know why you started to show anxiety, whether something is happening in that ruling coalition. You're all very nervous today and you're worried about someone else's worry. You told Mr. Krasic that everyone should take care and take care of the fate of their parliamentary group. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, we Serbian radicals take care of the SRS, in which Mr. Micunovic, there are no thieves, the thieves have left us, or are expelled from the party. We are taking care of the interests of Serbian citizens and we, perhaps after these next elections, will not have any MPs, but it is not your concern, but ours. We are asking you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and this ruling coalition, to give us back the mandates that are now stolen from the SRS. What happens after, we'll see. Now you give us back our mandates, then you try to win as much as you can. As far as we win, that's our business. But, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, no matter how many terms I have of Serbian radicals, be sure we will never help because of the chair, because of the naked authority of this yellow one, who drove our president to The Hague tribunal, who, with those down there, tried to fail the coup and kidnapping of the SRS. I don't know how you can do that, and you know they killed your president.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7329	Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7330	I'm going out on the line, because as Mr. Micunovic left, I was just scared. I said, now he's going to tell me about the creation of the National Assembly, about the curtains, about the futhers, about the parquet, about the Federal Assembly's reconstruction fund, about the payments from abroad; there were no words, and from the place he said I was lying, just for the record. As for Mr Desimir Tosic, I only took one fragment that was registered in records, stenograms and materials, I did not go any further. And for your information, for 20 and a few years, I read a paper that he was editing when there was no multiparty system in Serbia. Ask around when you're trying to teach someone, Mr. Micunovic. Feel free to give your people lectures, but don't lecture me, not from politics or morals. Dragoljub Micunović, from the place: You know everything? Of course I know everything and I remember everything, you know. The pain has made me remember, to remind the citizens at every turn what you've done, what you're preparing and what you're going to do. We have to, there's no other, we have to warn the citizens about everything. Here, if you don't believe me, here's Filip Stojanović, coming in right now. Let me remind you, it wasn't a cable, it wasn't a glass, it was a Gjilan. The fact that Vojislav Seselj climbed the bench to say - people, no rallying, the police banned. Then they packed it, and Filip Stojanovic barely survived from hitting the handle of the gun on the head. Everyone knows what happened, and everyone's gathered, since the old coalition partners of the SPS, to remove immunity, because the first judge for the offenses didn't want to judge. Everyone knows that, books are published about it, but no, you have to use your authority, your age, to supposedly convince the public how to get out of here someone slandering. Here, we've been slandering about the rebalancing, so it looks like the IMF is slandering. We're talking about Eulex, we're criticizing you, and you say you're lying. Now you say in public -- yes, yes, that's what Serbia is asking. Don't use those low blows. Let the citizens be a factor in political life in Serbia. Do not be a factor in political life based on force and violence in the National Assembly. Every time you applied your vision of democracy and parliamentaryism in the National Assembly there was something wrong with the mandates; once Ivkovic, now this one, was once from Thessaloniki, some time from Bodrum. You have an anti-democratic reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7331	Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7332	Replica. So, I find your stories unworthy... Article 104, which you need so much, there you go. I didn't want to answer Krasic's untrues, I find it extremely unserious, but I am now demanding at the first session here that the chairman read the record, from which you will clearly see that no glass of acid water is from that account or the fund used for the reconstruction of the building went anywhere but for the repair of the building. Everywhere in the world, the man who restored one building, passing through the world the money for it, would at least say thank you. You sent the commission, I don't mind, she came in, checked, said sorry, everything's fine. Please read it next time. That's why I didn't want to talk about it. It doesn't matter. Let me tell you something, you ran into Tosic dead here because you were in Gjilan. Your coalition partner took you to Gjilan. After that Gjilan, you entered the government, Mr. Krasic, after that you became a minister in that government, and you resent someone who came to a meeting of the immunity committee and said there is no immunity, so let everyone defend themselves as they defend themselves. So that's incorrect. I have no intention of plowing, believe me, this is the last time. I have no intention of plowing with you or anyone, but don't exaggerate in insulting and destroying the dignity of people who can't defend themselves. That's the problem. Nor did we drive your president to The Hague, he was called by the prosecution from The Hague and he volunteered, along with your escort and the music, to leave. I never forced him, nor asked me whether to go or not, nor what would happen. It's one thing that's completely clear. So stay away from that. Let's try to make this assembly even decent, to pass laws, to discuss, you're great when you're an opposition, you're giving some good amendments, it's all right, and I respect it all, but stay away from that spit on people who can't defend themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7333	Please, first Mr. Momchilov, then Mr. Krasic, then you, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Dear Mr. Micunovic came out here and said that it's not nice to talk about the dead here and talk about anything and talk about it, and I agree mostly with that. However, what followed as some argument that a party was impregnated, I don't know what, is really something that is also an insult and what is inappropriate. Once again, I will be free to remind one of the deceased, our colleague, the academic Milosevic, who wrote nicely for a man who pleads here that a party has been impregnated to some people in some service, that there was a young man on the naked island very briefly, and he returned very quickly and immediately received a seat at the Philosopher's College. It also points to another example. It's a quote from part of the academics...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7335	Mr. Momchilov, please, we are obliged to address one another with respect. Don't insult the People's Messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7336	Please, it was published in the book of the Milosevic Academy. I'll bring that quote and I'll show you. Am I lying, Mr. Micunovic? So I'm telling the truth. Okay. The same academic Milosevic means lies and tells the lie when he talks to Mr Milosevic and the students, students seek resignation, and Milosevic addresses Mr Micunovic and tells - Micun, have we agreed? And that's a lie? All right, he's lying to an academic named Milosevic. I apologize for being deceived by the deceased. So now you're judging the deceased. I'll bring a book and a quote where it says it. So he's lying to the deceased, now we can condemn him and possibly insult him. All right. Let's get back to the whole thing here that we're discussing. He says Mr. Milivojevic has a bunch of quotes he can bring. Don't bring them, we won't disprove them. We're talking about the current theft. We are talking about something that is inadmissible, that someone who was elected as SRS today is no longer an SRS, and the same goes on in this parliament under the SRS firm. Mr. Milivoevich, look at our Assembly website, if you don't believe me, if I'm lying. Probably everything I say here will be a lie, and I will bring a book to apologize to Mr. Micunovic for being in error and quoting the published work and reading. So, who's impregnated by what we're going to let go of... (President: Time. I'm out of time for 16 seconds. I'm sorry for overstepping.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7337	The word has Mr. Micunović
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7338	Of course there were writers and people who were telling lies, slandering and doing things. But there are some facts that haven't failed anyone yet, and they're in the next one. There were attempts when I became party president, and it was factoryed by the DB, with great pleasure some people accepted. I was under 18 when I was arrested. I don't want to say anything else about that author of yours, but obviously there was little I was for two years, so he said it was short. But when I got here, I went to colleges, so I had to finish my studies, so I worked inside high school, and then I worked at the institutes. Only after 30 years, with a year of resistance from the University Committee, did I become an assistant at 30 and a few years. So much so that I got here right away from Golog Island. Until the deceased, every one of them was well, but not a single second without bread... It's good for him in the other world, but the fact is that the academic in question has become a regular professor, which is a unique case in the history of our enlightenment. Therefore, if you were correct, which should be like a man who has a prominent profession, you would say - yes, I read that with Mr. Milosevic, but I read Mr. Micunovic's biography several times, and more people who were, and then those two things disagree. . No, you're deliberately using one evil, old fight, it doesn't matter what, to try to misinformed the public here again today. It's too famous my biography to this public that you would try to compromise it with a quote like this. But your intention is ugly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7339	Mr. Krasic. I'd just like to say that this is the 57th line, three and a half hours, we've been working exclusively on the Rules of Procedure. I think we've come very far from an extremely important topic for the citizens of Serbia, if there were extremely significant laws on the agenda, simply, I would just like to say that. I don't want to comment on anything else, just to ask you, I assume Mr Krasic will contribute to this appeal, so we can get back to the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7340	You know I'm making an extremely big contribution to fighting for the truth. Mr. Micunovic, do you think I know little about your biography? I don't think I see a single person in this room who could say that he boasts that he knows your biography better than I do, if you believe me. But I need to draw your attention to one thing. You came out here twice, and you confirmed what I said that made you angry. Just to remind you of one more thing, if you have a positive relationship with human life and talk about drinking to the dead, you said the gentleman was buried in a giant alley. The gentleman who was party leader Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, thanks to the political option that you belong to, not only was he not buried in an alley of giants but some were blowing balloons in the Republic Square and were looking forward to the day when several tens of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia were there outside the Federal Assembly to pay a basic tribute to a man who had several times been president of the Republic of Serbia to the votes of the Serbian citizens. Why didn't you then demonstrate your magnificent attitude towards piety and take hold of the ears of that Albian, Dinkic, and these others to tell them – you can't do that. There must be respect for human life, human dignity. Mr. Micunović, you will read this record, this stenogram. You were upset when I said something at first. You went out twice and confirmed exactly what I said. Everything I've said is not about piety, dignity, but just some naked facts. You confirmed, the man was at the board meeting, you confirmed, I'm not going to potentiate the library now, the Canadian donation, but I'm going to photocopy the paperwork, so I'm going to give it to someone. I hope you won't forbid it. Because here as it goes, you can't even talk about facts. Look, one thing is when you say it's a fact, it can be true or not, but then someone spreads on this side and enters his feelings, his own impression, which some would say, to twist with some attitude or opinion, not touching the fact. That's the difference between my performances from this pay phone and some other people. I know the facts that I present are harsh, but I purposely state that, in order for the citizens to understand the dangers that have prevailed over Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7341	The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the risk of re-experienced ovations from respected colleagues, to understand each other, Mr Micunovic, I did not go out to disrespect you, respect your age, and I can respect everything you've done well in my life. I'm not a man to deny it. However, Mr. Micunovic, you have offended my entire party. You said we were a party impregnated with DB, and that's no insult to you. So, I reacted to your reaction as an MP, like one bad reaction to a man who, at least when he's already got that kind of biography, shouldn't talk like that. You said what you said, I conditionally said I'd bring you a quote and I said if it wasn't true, I apologized. Now I don't know why you see this evil intention. But it's something else. Why doesn't he work in the congregation that sound that you bought, that even now can't bring back to life, that's just been paid in a letter. We can't sit in the House, we can sit here. That's, say, something interesting. It's very interesting, we all know, thank God, how the first president of the DS was made. Did someone get there in the Woods, where it happened, and the building is gone, now a new building has been built, brought from the street, and suggested Mr. Micunovic. There's a living witness who can confirm that. Mr. Micunović, those aren't lies, we know that. They're not lies, there's a living witness and he'll confirm it. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7343	Mr. Jojic, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I think some things should be brought up and the facts should show the way they are. I was challenged to come out, ask a question and ask for a notice. There's one thing, I'm asking Mr. Micunovic for a notice. Please, give me back my time, see that they're making a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7345	Please, sir has a remark that you're distracting him and that he can't speak. Please, let him speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7346	Mr. Micunovic, you said you were collecting funds to repair the Federal Assembly. Please, how much these funds were, how much damage it was, who caused the damage and whether a procedure was initiated to compensate for the damage that was done. What you did should really be accepted and appreciated, everything that has been done and what Dr. Momchilov said, what you did well, okay. I ask the question: who did this damage, how much does it amount, and who is responsible for that damage? Another question: How much damage was done at the police station in Mother Jerosima? How many long and short weapons and ammunition fighting kits have gone missing? Is there any damage to radio and television? I don't think we from the SRS went there and had anything to do with it. So you said here that you were working on rebuilding the Federal Assembly, but you also mentioned Professor Vojislav Seselj. Don't mention him in that context anymore. Why, Mr. Micunović? Therefore, read only those cited books published recently by the chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal, Carla del Ponte, who said that Vojislav Seselj went to The Hague and who said "Take me Vojislav Seselj from here and never return". Therefore, please, the book was written by the chief prosecutor of the UN tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7347	Gentlemen, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to my office for a meeting. [[After break – 19.00]] Mr. Zoran Krasic, by the book.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7349	Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic, I understand that these three points of the agenda that you have united are very important, but then they had to be the first on the agenda of this session today, these days as it was. However, so as not to accuse me of slandering, to lie, to express certain things that do not correspond to the truth, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, on behalf of the citizens of the RS who voted for the SRS, for Vojislav Seselj, on behalf of the RS who faithfully follow the transfer of trials to Vojislav Seselj, on behalf of our offspring, our children, on behalf of good relations, in the name of dialogue, in the name of parliamentaryism, I call that, by applying Article 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure from the National Assembly, it may also be the Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague Tribunal, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, may also be the President of the Republic, I leave you with that width, so choose who you will empower, to receive an answer to the question - whether Carla del Ponte is in his book, which has been translated and here in connection with the Hague, who has been published by the members of the members of the Hague. With a special reference to two sentences that I will try to interpret, which refer to the conversation that Carla del Ponte had in Belgrade on 17.02.2003 with the Prime Minister at the time? That's about what those two sentences say. Carla Del Ponte asks: "What should we do with Vojislav Seselj? "The Prime Minister said at the time: "Take him away and don't bring him back again. "After a while, chats come a second part of the conversation, where at the time the Prime Minister warns Carla del Ponte: "Take him, but I warn you, you will have great problems with him there. Unlike Milosevic's stubbornness, this one will cause you far, far greater problems and you will not easily deal with it. "I may have made a bit of a mistake in this interpretation, but that's the point. Please check through the authorities to see if it's written in the book of Carla del Ponte. The results of your check, whatever they give, please multiply it into 250 copies and divide all MPs of the National Assembly, so I don't have a problem when I go out for this pay phone and if I quote what you send me as an answer. All this is necessary in order for the public in Serbia to understand this situation in the National Assembly, why these help steal mandates and why someone here in their interpretation says - willing to leave, as he is tired of being in Belgrade, so let's keep him in The Hague for a while. (President: Time. I'm sorry about this minute I overstepped. I have called upon the proper provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please let this be answered, let it be delivered in writing, let it be divided to all the MPs, so that no one will accuse me of lying here or saying something that is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7350	Mr. Radisa Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about these bill proposals, I would like to ask the President-in-Office - in which direction Mrs. Minister was lost, if he could come and attend this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and listen to the presentation of the MPs. (President: Let me tell you, she's in the building and she'll join up any minute. She's tired and she took a little break with the TV. He'll be here very soon. ) Today, Mrs. Minister made a confusing finding at the beginning of her presentation. Mrs. Minister said that we should react quickly, and then she says - what's fast, it's also short. I don't know what the government's doing, whether the government's reacting quickly or slowed down, not to mention, shorty, what Mrs. Minister said. It was supposed to take two months for the government to react, provided it wasn't too late. What Serbia can expect if it loses millions of foreign exchange reserves per week to create some false illusion that we have a stable course, that we have a strong economy, a strong economy. One day we'll face the fact that we've almost emptied the state register without any effect. The MPs found three draft laws at a time that is extremely difficult because of the new situation in the global financial market. The problems Serbia faces inevitably, as if in some ways they are hiding from the citizens and as if Serbian citizens are blind and deaf and do not see what is happening around them. The banks are panicking about the withdrawal. Interests are growing, users of huge loans, mostly residential ones, and these users are mostly citizens who have average incomes, are now being held by the head -- that they will survive at all because of the inability to pay for the war they have won due to the growth of the euro. If we add to this the latest "measures" of the RS government, we heard them yesterday, about freezing salaries and pensions for next year, as some compromise, it seems the hardest it will be for Serbian citizens. Where is the RS government at the moment? The RS government is in a gap between the IMF, on the one hand, and Krkobic, the vice-president of the government, would say, has drawn 70% and not a step further for now, that is, until October 2009, if we survive. This pension increase of 14.5% is already a euro hike and the latest ones, so that it all comes to the same as before the pension increase, and perhaps even worse, as our people would say - from horse to donkey. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, the SRS, through the presentation of representatives of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Milorad Buha, highlighted some remarks offered as amendments to the government to correct this bill. First, this bill must provide legal protection on the market, regardless of the form of organisation or form of property. It is absolutely necessary to exclude possible discrimination, i.e. an unfair relationship between small, medium and large enterprises as legal entities. When large companies are said to be said, it primarily refers to large public state-owned enterprises, which would show the state's protective role for its assets in the real light. Such a formulation appears in Articles 1, 2 and 3 of this proposal and applies only to small and medium-sized legal persons. The question is why does the Government, as a proposing, leave out the protection of large legal entities or large companies of capital? To remind us that the Constitution guarantees the same rights and the same legal protection on the market. Also, in Article 4 of this bill, the government is taking on something that is the job of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If this law determines the amount of insurance, what is the point of even making this law, when can the government decide on another amount? What is defined by Article 2(3) of this Act in the dinar equivalent, when Article 4 says that this is not something that is guaranteed and established by law? Now Jelasic, as governor of the NBS, can give some opinion to the Serbian government, which allows Article 4, that the financial stability of the state is compromised, and then the government without law determines a new security amount. Although it won't be the first time the government has changed the provisions of the law when its stability is threatened, but it's always a nice media package, so it turns out that the government is doing it in the interest of the citizens. It's the same for you right now with these fake pensioners, but let them, I guess, they knew who they were in power with. Now, according to that people's "give the grandmother a dinar to get in the car, now she'd give two to go out." If we look at Article 9, it turns out that the government is in a hurry to get this law into effect the next day of publication. Now there's no usual eight-day deadline. Why the haste, if all the authorities in the executive power, start with the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, especially Vice-President Djelic, ministers, governors, say in a voice that we will be bypassed by this global economic crisis, that there is no room for panic and so on. This is where the IMF representatives occupy you in the government of the Republic of Serbia and line up everything in order. They don't care about the government, they don't care about Krkobic and the army of bank debtors, whose credit rates are growing dizzy due to the value of the euro, while the NBS are slowly spending foreign reserves to stop the euro's jump. Serbia is threatened by chaos. There's already been a panic over the decision to freeze wages and pensions. Serbia is threatening to increase the number of unemployed and due to the imminent collapse of a large number of enterprises, but also because of government announcements of a reduction in the number of employees in the state administration, which is very large. We heard, Minister Markovic announced the dismissal of 12,000 workers. Then that Djelic comes out and says everything's under control, there's no room for panic. I had a chance, since Krasic said he hadn't seen him in a long time, yesterday I saw him driving around town with his "tortured" yellow "sugar convertible", with some TV crew, probably making an interview and surely telling that reporter, "there, there he is, driving south, a people hard to live"; a man has been solidarityd, barely transferred some 11m euros. Because of the time for my colleagues, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7352	Thank you. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic has given up. He has the word Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7353	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, after today's debates, I will try to tax and chronologically state what I have to say about the deposit insurance law. In September, when this major financial crisis was suggested, opposition MPs pointed to possible problems. The DSS parliamentary group intervened in this regard that on October 8th, it submitted a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act, where we asked for an increase of deposits from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros, and explained exactly what we are doing, that the danger of the crisis is great and that both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the banking system in Serbia should be protected. We didn't come to an understanding when we put up with it. The Committee on Finance was held in the premises of the National Assembly on 9 October. Mr. Ilic was present. We asked him about these misunderstandings of ours, about our bill. He then answered, "Now the question is whether we should do it. I'd like to hear one analysis. Let's hear what you're based on that the amount secured in Serbia should be more than 3,000 euros. I'll tell you why I don't think you should. As many as 80% of the savings have deposits of up to 3,000 euros, 13% have over 3,000 euros and 7% over 5,000 euros. I'd like to, when someone tells me -- we want to increase from 3,000 to whatever, to say what it's based on, or it's just a nice story." We felt at that point that we had no understanding by the Secretary of State. Obviously, he felt that the situation was much better than it really was. After 11 days of that moment, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Cvetkovic, reacts on October 20th, which says the state will increase the amount of guarantees for citizens' deposits in banks from the current 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros per role. It also announces that a further increase in the secured savings role will be considered to be 100,000 euros if the need arises. These proposals, which we received on November 14th, mean today, which we are talking about, these two draft laws amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act and amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, have few members, but have a lot of ambiguities and things to change. That is why we have also submitted amendments to these laws, because what is proposed in Article 4 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act: "The guaranteed amount set out in this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia may increase according to the previous report of the NBS that this increase is necessary in order to preserve financial stability", I am sure that none of the MPs can vote for this, because these changes can only be done by law, not by government decision, with the consent of the NBS. Mrs Diana Dragutinovic said on October 30th that the situation is under control and reminded that the government and the NBS have a plan to reduce the negative spillover of the global financial crisis into Serbia, a set of laws has been prepared, or measures that will be applied if necessary. We're obviously only discussing deposit insurance today. In his presentation, the prime minister announced the abolition of the savings tax, the elimination of the capital gains tax, the abolition of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. Obviously these laws didn't come into assembly procedure and you didn't do it, but you did something else -- you broke the Budgetary System Act, you didn't deliver to the MPs, as the law requires, at the time of the draft budget. That's what we've warned you many times. The IMF has told you the same objections as the DSS MPs and the entire opposition. Why didn't you want to listen to us? We also told you that you would listen to them when they told you. It's no shame to listen to someone who really wants to make things, to make the right laws. It's a shame to steal, be a thief. It is no shame to listen to colleagues who really want this situation resolved in the best possible way. What we have at this point, we have a situation where there is a balance of payments deficit, a drop in capital inflows, an increase in inflation, a drop in dinar values, a rise in interest, a withdrawal of foreign investors. The NBS daily intervenes with 20 million, 30 million, 50m euros for now. If the good data I've had a chance to read is over 300 million she's intervened so far. We're wondering how long can it take to preserve the course of the dinar? I don't want to talk about unfulfilled promises this time, because I certainly won't have time to say it all, and PUPS gentlemen can explain it in the best possible way. You've been negotiating with the IMF for nearly three weeks, and the conclusion is that in 2009, the deficit is 1.5% of gross domestic product, to implement savings at all levels, that by one quarter the subsidies in agriculture, tourism, social giving, pensions will not grow. The fact is that there is confusion in the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the fact is that you live in your world, in your cabinets and we seem to return you only here to reality when you come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you hear what the real situation really is. That's why, Madam Minister, I recommend you prepare yourself well for the 2009 budget, because then you'll hear how devastating the policy of your ministry and your government are. Get ready to come to the DSS Parliament Club, to the Finance Committee and then to the O.R. and defend a budget that will differ greatly from the rebalancing you defended ten days ago. When that debate is over, you will have a chance to resign after that, or the government resigns, because it has to be, there is no other. With the desire to return to your students as soon as possible, I want you to come to us with the budget of the Republic of Serbia to the Assembly as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7354	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The word is made by MP Milan Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7355	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, I am pleased to finally have the opportunity to explain to you in a brief statement why we should adopt the proposed set of amendments and amendments to the law. Just to remind myself and others, on the agenda is the amendment and addition of the Deposit Insurance Act, the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, the Bank and Insurance Companies Act. The crisis is a term that is increasingly used backwards in world economic forums, magazines, meetings and something that has started as a crisis of mortgage loans in the United States, has evolved to talk today about the global financial crisis, i.e. the global economic crisis, therefore, a crisis that captures not only the financial sector, but also the real sector. So, no doubt, the world economy is affected today and how long the crisis is going to last are different estimates, from the most optimistic ones predicting that 2009 will be the year when the world economy will be able to get out of the crisis until 2011. But, realistically, such things are difficult to predict. The speed that has spread instability continues to spread through meridians assures us of what environmentalists have long understood, and that is that the world is one. Inevitably, what is happening in the world affects both the good and the bad sides of life in Serbia. The effects of this crisis will certainly be felt in Serbia. In the prime minister's presentation, we were able to learn that what was planned for the growth of the gross social product by 7%, we are now talking about a growth of 3% to 4%, and this is certainly caused by a crisis that is happening on the world capital market. This is one of the more difficult circumstances, given the previous year when we achieved growth rates around 6-7%. For those of us who have succeeded in the 1990s in a strange way, perhaps unrepeated in the world, to devastate our economy, it's a great handicap, because we're just trying to get to those who have escaped in the meantime while we've been dealing with "essential things". Those responsible for the Serbian economy, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS, must bring in a set of measures for 2009 to help Serbia lead the emerging crisis as easily as possible, both in the real economy sector and in the finance sector. I'm glad, since I've heard announcements about the budget that will be balanced next year, that an agreement has been reached with the IMF. I'm glad we're going to be one of the countries that will spend 2009 as a saving country, because in 2009, it's already been called a year of savings, or savings, and somewhere in the year of recession. The proposed set of laws ahead has been passed for the reason of strengthening the financial sector, strengthening confidence in our financial sector. It is not mentioned above, and I think that we should know and be proud, that our financial sector is, according to estimates, both domestic and foreign experts, extremely stable, even in today's conditions, highly liquid. We heard the data, they should be mentioned once again, the capital ratio is 28% in Serbia, while, for example, in the EU, the minimum prescribed is 8%, and our regulations are more rigorous, so we have a 12% standard. In the first half of this year while banks in the United States were already seriously affected, our banking sector achieved a 300m-euro profit. In order to improve the business of our banks, in a situation where there is a liquidity crisis in the banking sector, the National Bank has brought a set of measures, only to mention that the increased dinar stake from 10% to 20% in the depositary reserve. So all of those deposits that are in euro, 40% is separated into the mandatory reserves of the National Bank, of which were 90 percent in the euro before, and 10% in the dinars, and now it's 80 percent in the euro, and 20% in the dinars. Also, banks have abolished a mandatory reserve due to the withdrawal of new funds from abroad, and these measures freed some of the liquidity in the euro, around 350m euros thus the banks could use in the previous period and will be able to use it in the next period. But the proposed changes and amendments to the law move further, a step further by increasing the secured level of deposits from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros. The importance of increasing the secured deposit can be seen from the fact that there were 6,305,265 deposits in banks in Serbia on October 15th,521 deposits up to 50,000 euros. So less than half of the total deposits in Serbia will remain uncovered by this law. It should be noted, and it does not matter that this law will make Serbia equal to the level of the secured deposit with those in the environment, therefore, in the EU countries, and even in those who are not EU members, which they want to be. But much more important than that, by these measures, this law sends the state of Serbia and this parliament a message to Serbian citizens that their savings roles are sacred, that this is something guaranteed, which is safe. We here voting for this law, and not discussing anything that falls into our minds, we send a message that we care that all the funds that citizens have are invested in banks, where the funds will be fertilized, where they can count on an interest of between 7% and 11% on an annual level, while those funds that stand with them or which are withdrawn from the banks are actually failing. It is also significant that the law includes both entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized legal persons in the deposit insurance system. By supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, we open up a space for additional state reactions if things go unfavourable. The Republic of Serbia will be able to, in case a bank gets into serious trouble, buy out actions practically nationalise that bank and prevent any negative effects that we might have in relation to our banking sector. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, both worldly and our economy, face serious challenges. The exit from existing trials is located in a thrift state and stable finances. This set of laws further stabilises our financial sector. By agreeing with the IMF and the 2009 austerity budget, we are hitting the second foundation of Serbia's future stable economy. We need to know that, if we assume that foreign banks will transfer fewer and fewer loans to Serbia because of the global economic crisis, that domestic depositors, as a possible, potential, are certainly a valuable source of credit to our businesses and our citizens, which means that they are the momentum of economic growth and development, the momentum of production, and therefore I call for responsibility, I call on all MPs to, no matter what group of MPs they belong to, to which foreigners, be made known about this law by voting for. Because by doing so, we are sending a message to the citizens that we are unique in defending their interests, unique in defending Serbia's interests, and a vote for this law and for the budget will also be a confirmation that we are thinking about citizens and their interests, not our party interests, so I call on you to vote for the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7356	Thank you, Mr. Vukkovic. The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Get Mladen Grujic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Proposer i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in light of the reasons for the adoption of the law on changes and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act, states that in 2005, by adopting this law, a system of compulsory insurance of deposits of natural persons with banks was established to protect the deposits of those persons in the event of bank bankruptcy. The amendments and additions to the law are now being made, as the need for a stable, sustainable and functional system of guaranteeing the deposit of natural persons has arisen, in order to strengthen confidence in the banking sector of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act changes the amount of the secured deposit from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros. In addition to the deposits of natural persons, the deposits of entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized legal entities will also be secured. The real reason for amending this law is covered up and only one sentence can be recognized, which is - the proposed amendment in the law is based on the conditions of functioning of the country's banking system and the potential risks identified. The identified potential risks are, in fact, risks associated with the global financial crisis. Although the government insists that there are no reasons for being overly concerned, that we will not be affected to a large extent by the financial crisis, the fact is, and the government itself is aware, that this is not so. But it seems that the government treats all of us Serbian citizens as little children. The banking sector in Serbia has been assessed as solvent, liquid and secure, so that citizens and the business sector can have full confidence in it, and that the crisis is purely psychological. On Sunday, the savings kept talking about how not having money should keep that money at home, but should be earned by passing it on savings. However, unlike the previous years, when banks raced each other that would offer higher interest, there was no such fierce match this year. Some bankers argue they will be careful to raise interest on savings, as this may result in significant interest growth on loans. Credits raised by citizens are increasingly expensive, so citizens justifiably worry whether they will be able to pay them off regularly, because in addition to collecting loans, everything else has been collected, starting with gas, electricity, fixed telephony, consumer baskets. As far as the economic sector is concerned, the global financial crisis may be affected, and there will certainly be a decline in foreign investment, which will directly affect the decline in employment and the reduction in living standards. If we add to this the data that speaks of our country's poor rating for international economic competitiveness, we will see that there are many reasons to worry. On the latest list of the World Economic Forum on International Competitiveness, Serbia ranks 85th from 134 countries, behind Central America, Honduras, Peru and Guatemala, ranked from 82nd to 84th. The parameters being examined are divided into three groups, and they correspond to the country's economic development rate. In a group of basic requirements, we are particularly lagging behind in infrastructure development. Solid estimates have been given to health, primary education and technological literacy, while the worst estimated market for goods. The painful point is the institutions of Serbia, which have been assessed as inefficient and corrupt. The results show Serbia's stagnation, primarily in the state administration reform sector, which has been lagging behind for years. Complicated procedures and a bunch of regulations make business difficult in Serbia. To obtain all the necessary permits to build a less sized business facility in Serbia, it takes as many as 279 days, while the average of developed countries is 161 days. In recent years, growth in the Serbian economy has been based on three sectors: finance, trade and telecommunications. The problem is that the products of this sector are inexplicable, i.e. they are not exported. Another major concern is the Serbian economists' assessment that thousands of workers will be out of work next year due to the global financial crisis. Among the workers are the most vulnerable workers of foreign companies and employees of a particular one. Foreign companies came here and came for cheap labor. The following year, however, the whole of Europe will enter the recession and there will be a significant reduction in public spending, and less goods will be needed by their countries of origin. Serbian products, due to high inflation and unfavourable loans from our banks, will be more expensive in foreign markets, thus being among the first to be bought less. Economists estimate the impact of the global financial crisis next year will hit the most metal, construction and textile industries, as well as services. The biggest blow will still be suffered by small and medium-sized enterprises, those that are business-related to large giants. Since the beginning of this fall, about 850 workers have been out of work, a thousand were sent on an annual forced vacation, and another 3,000 workers have been announced. Union representatives say employees are fired illegally and without an adequate social programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that only during one day in Leskovac, the city from which I come, 194 workers of the company "Health" are out of work, 194 families will be left without a source of income, without the possibility of raising and schooling their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7358	Thank you. Mr. Mladen Grujic, the second is on the list, and he did not use time on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7359	Dear colleagues, New Serbia's view is that the government's proposal is good, but unfortunately it has arrived too late and can't be corrected now. The damage has already been done. Thousands of citizens have already raised their deposits and will take a long time to regain faith in Serbian banks. But I'm not just gonna talk about it right now. There's another important moment in your proposal and that's what you're looking for to amend the bankruptcy law. I'm already worried about that. The bankruptcy bill we have is good. It doesn't matter if we copied it from the European Union or if we wrote it ourselves, it's important that it's good. You want to change it today, which I also understand. What's not good and what's worrying us from New Serbia is that the law is not being applied. We're free of good laws when they're not implemented. The "Kostane" acquisitions from Vranja, Belgrade's construction company, and the Belgrade Confection, are the famous "Beko", are the clearest examples of my claim. These are the losses that last for years, with hundreds of creditors, in which every year they arrest a bankruptcy manager, the court sets up a new one, who already knows that he will end up in prison, but accepts the risk because he knows that after a few months he will be released, and his trial will be suspended one day because of the ageing of the case. The Belgrade Confection "Beka" case is the most absurd. Part of the property has been sold, trusting everyone calmed down, and the bankruptcy whether it lasts. Of course it is, because a court that's crazy enough to allow all these places in Prince Michael's company to return to business and that Beko continues to work when they all live wonderfully from the abuse of these places. That's what worries us from the NS and what makes sense to have good laws, which we further promote when we don't apply them. This situation that we have with the Banks Act reminds me of the Constitution of the United Arab Emirates, an excellent, logical, modern constitution, written by the English, which does not lag behind any European state and which ultimately has a member in which the right of the Sheikh is left - to amend anything in the Constitution if necessary. In our bankruptcy law, there's only one last member missing, so that everything that's happening to us is legal, and then we've solved everything -- everyone's happy, and the courts are doing their job, and the bankruptcy managers on the loose. So, once again, NS has nothing to do with your draft amendments to the law, but we're afraid that this is all you're doing is too slow and without any desire to essentially solve the problems that are ahead of us. We have the impression that someone from the government was watching CNN and decided that they would be involved in the global crisis. That's not how we do things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7360	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric. Your parliamentary group has eight minutes left, then Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7361	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act has finally been found on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, because I assume that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has finally realised that the global economic and financial crisis will not bypass Serbia, that this is not Serbia's chance and that Serbia will not be the only country in the world to benefit from this crisis, as the Deputy Prime Minister and some other state officials said a month ago. Unfortunately, since today is on the agenda of this law, I think it's too late, because in the last month, we are certain, according to some information that has appeared in the media in recent days, we have a withdrawal of deposits from banks about 600m euros. We still don't know what happened on the week of the savings that came after us, because on the week of the savings, the largest number of these deposits came out on the charge, so we don't know what the negative effects are, the overall, of this crisis. I would like to remind you that the DSS parliamentary group was still on October 8th, so more than a month ago, submitted its draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act and I really don't understand why it wasn't on the agenda, because then I think that these negative effects would be significantly less. In addition to the law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the DSS parliamentary group submitted on 31 October a proposal for a decision on the education of the State Commission to monitor the global economic crisis and to take measures to mitigate the negative impact on the economy and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia, and on 6 November this year, a parliamentary group of DSS submitted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens, which provides for a reduction of the capital gains tax rate from 20 to 5%, when it comes to trading securities of value and to abolishing interest tax on foreign savings. I think this whole set of laws and decisions that we have proposed is comprehensive and I appeal to the National Assembly president to be on the agenda at the first next session of the National Assembly. When it comes to this bill on deposit insurance, proposed by the government, I said earlier that I was glad to have him on the agenda. What is disputed in this law is Article 4 which plans to add one position, and the view reads: The guaranteed amount set out in this law may be increased by the Government of the Republic of Serbia according to the previously obtained opinion of the National Bank of Serbia that this increase is necessary in order to preserve financial stability. I think this attitude is unacceptable. I have submitted an amendment to this law, which I have proposed - that this attitude be deleted because this can only be subject to an amendment to the law, and the laws change in the National Assembly and I see no reason why the Government should be given some authority that does not belong to it. We can meet. The congregation can make these laws very quickly and efficiently, if it will. So, once again, I would like to appeal to both the President of the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the legislative proposals tabled by the DSS Group are on the agenda of the next session of the Assembly, because in a comprehensive way they are easing or will try to mitigate the consequences of the global economic crisis on our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7362	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic, and let the MP Dragan Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the Proposal for a Law amending and liquidating banks and insurance companies. The basis for a proposal to amend this deposit insurance law is to increase deposit insurance, which is the amount of 3,000 euros to a secure deposit amount of up to 50,000 euros, with a reason to bring domestic legislation into line with countries in the region and with the countries of the European Union. With this increase to 50,000 euros in secured deposit per deposit in general, it would protect all depositors, amounting to over six million depositors. With this proposal you expanded the deposit insurance system, so now other than the natural persons, the deposit of entrepreneurs, and small and medium-sized legal entities, which protected the category of the population, which are also participants in our financial market. Finally, this bill also establishes the exact moments or timing and date when the Deposit Insurance Agency is obliged to start paying off secured deposits. The second proposal for a law on the Insurance Agency allows the Republic of Serbia to buy bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. So, on a proposal from the National Bank, the Agency will be able to buy off the actions of these banks in order to avoid the domino effect in the entire financial system. This bill provides that the State, i.e. The agency can also buy the shares of all banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the origin of the capital. These amendments regulate deposit insurance and regulate the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation law. And third in this set of laws, this bill regulates the expansion of depositor circles with a secured deposit and to entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises. The deadlines for banks to pay deposits shall be set, whether in the process of forced liquidation or voluntary. It regulates the payment of secured deposits before the payment of other creditors, in order to protect secured deposits in the right sense, and in accordance with the inflow of funds into the liquidation mass. Everything is foreseen as is done in developed countries and in the way that the depositors and their resources are really protected. It is also foreseen under which conditions this law will not apply, i.e. The provisions of this law. For example, funds associated with terrorist organisations, money laundering and other criminal acts will not be paid. These laws show and prove far more important things and depict the true character of previous relations with citizens. At the signal from the European Union and the United States that we are facing an economic and financial crisis and under the threat of citizens precisely because of these unfinished laws, which did not protect citizens and their resources not only in banks, but in any place where citizens have or pursue their own interests, the threat to the government is clear because rows in banks do not shrink, mass up their roles. It is these laws that are now being passed that confirm that citizens are right not to believe in our legal and financial system. In each bill, you state the reason for the adoption of this law in the sense that you want to further strengthen trust in our banking system and allegedly mitigate the effects of the financial crisis on the market, i.e. You admit that until this financial crisis, citizens were not protected enough through under-processed provisions of the law, because their deposits were secured at a minimum stake of 3,000 euros, and now you increase them 17 times, which you must admit is not normal at all, because how do you explain that a few months ago that amount was real, and now it's not. It is the laws that are also made to protect all citizens, in any segment, because of the social disturbances. We are not going to pass laws in time and in relation to the current state of our respective states, which are tutoring and determining when and how much to protect the interests of our citizens. The European standards that make you pass these and other emergency laws have a basis and a partial justification, but the global financial crisis is just an excuse for this incompetent government for unfulfilled pre-election promises, and worst of all, an excuse for everything that has been tragically happening these days in our country. These are the mass layoffs of workers, the addition of everything that affects the consumer basket most, the refusal to increase pensions and delay them, so many pensioners will not even experience the day when this delayed increase will really happen, which is the moral bottom of this government; protests by students, protests by military reservers, the fall of dinars and the fear of inflation, a total delay in financing small and undeveloped municipalities, because you spent all the money from these funds on your pre-election campaigns and all the other social advances that should help a huge number of socially endangered citizens to survive. We ordinary citizens can conclude that this is just another reason to deceive us and justify your impotence and inability to rule and lead a country in a developmental and economically sustainable society for all citizens. Your policy is based on personal interests and you're just acting like one, and it's only a question of how many individuals from the ruling coalition will come out of this global financial crisis as Euromillionaires. Finally, dear Serbian citizens, more than 500 amendments have been submitted to this set of laws on the agenda, which says enough that these laws are not in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7364	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Stevanović, then Mr. Zoran Nikolic. The DSS has four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think the only thing about these three laws that can't be burdened objectively, that is, to be commended is the efforts you've made to bring together a debate under these three laws. Everything else is objectively meaningless, condemned, I suppose, to failure. But, not to deal with formalities, you, Madam Minister, or the Government, in its reasons for the adoption of these two laws, among other things, wrote: that in these laws, in accordance with EU directives, this area is placed in a more stable, more precise and consistent regulatory frameworks that will represent part of a set of measures that mitigate the consequences of the crisis on the financial market. In the second law, among other things, you say that the measures are needed due to psychological factors, the need to ensure investor security and adapt the deposit insurance system in the countries in the environment and EU countries. Why did I read this? Because in the last month, month and a half, ever since the recession in the world was present, you couldn't hear any government official say something like this, not you, not the Prime Minister, not the vice president, and then you came to the session today and said, it's not disputed that the financial crisis exists. Your government colleagues have gone one step further. When asked how the economic crisis in the world will eventually reflect on opportunities in Serbia, your vice-president, government counterpart, Mr Djelic, says: "The crisis is good for Serbia, there is a great chance of progress. "After a month, a month and a half we have a set of laws that we want economic opportunities in Serbia to protect against the crisis in the world. In the last month, month and a half, speaking here or about the budget or about some other laws, the SRS, we've tried to point out the need to define and adopt the set, let's say, intervention measures. Government representatives, when they were sitting here, where you are sitting, I specifically talked about when I talked about the laws that we should guarantee for some loans, the government's representatives looked at it with a certain amount of ridicule. After that, the DSS submitted the bill you rejected, LDP counterparts also made some proposals, were not accepted. Here, today we are talking about the laws the government has proposed and we need to adopt them. What would it normally take and what effects would these laws give? It seems to me that they should provide credit activities for banks, which are foreign, which are present in these areas, whose functioning objectively in Serbia will depend on economic opportunities in the world. Now, a lack of funds, which will objectively be present on the banking market in Serbia, and experts estimate it at around eight billion, by building Serbia's and Serbian banks' trust in the bank should be covered from domestic savings. I don't think it's possible. I believe there is no such money in the Serbian straw. Again from this pay phone call on the opposition for responsibility to vote in favour of these laws. We vote them at a time when they are irresponsible with a month-and-a-half delay proposed to the Assembly. In those months and a half, it is seriously speculated that some 500 million were withdrawn from Serbian banks, out of savings. Where's the responsibility? Is there responsibility with the government because of the fact that the banking market in Serbia is denied for that money? Or should we move on, as you declare yourself European governments, promote European standards, is there responsibility for the government's deprived ability to make profits through interest savings that their money has withdrawn? You're telling us about responsibility, Europe, values and principles. Due to the time, Madam Minister, it seems to me that Serbia does not expect anything good in economic terms in the coming year. I don't think the government is capable of coping with anything that, as a problem, puts itself in front of her. You're talking to the IMF today about economic arrangements that condition unreasonable demands by two or three vice-presidents of the government, I don't know how much. In the following year, we are expected to have a credit crisis, i.e. a mortgage crisis, an increase in interest, a layoff of workers. We are expected to reduce direct investment and all of this will create a very unpleasant economic picture and opportunity in Serbia. I think the best package of measures could be defined as the shift or resignation of this government, and that the government and economic opportunities in Serbia are objectively entrusted to people who understand in a more quality way the harsh reality of economic opportunities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7366	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. Have Nikola Savic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7367	Dear People's MPs, dear minister, if I wanted to be malice and mean, and I don't want to, but I have to say that if I were to look back at everything that the ruling coalition promised to the citizens of Serbia four or five months ago in a pre-election campaign, believe me, we wouldn't need the global financial crisis and we would have far greater problems without it. But now we are facing this global financial crisis, that is, the consequences of the global financial crisis are also felt by us, although, again, it is symptomatic of the ministers of the economic profession and those who are leading the economic and economic downturns, it has been said that these effects of the global financial crisis will not be felt in our country. There was even a statement, and here it was mentioned, that this is one big chance and that actually Serbia can take advantage of its capacities. What concerns you very much and what we remind you of all day, but not maliciously, is the inaction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry. We told you when budget rebalances were on the agenda here that certain measures should be taken as a state and, like all other serious states, we should take certain measures to warn potential dangers that have gone beyond Serbia. You ignored it then, said there was no need for that. The Secretary of State has also been said here on several occasions, and this is probably a more irrefutable fact, when DSS MPs and the Finance Committee said that there was a need to increase deposit insurance from 3,000 to 20,000, unlike other parliamentary groups, we passed it into the law and handed it over to the assembly procedure on October 8th, then said it was absolutely not necessary, and even there was a mockery. We're facing the same bill now, but we've lost a month and a half. I have here measures that have been taken by countries that have hit the global crisis, and this report is ultimately with 24 October, Germany, France, Spain, Italy, the EU, the USA, Russia, China, so to a dozen sides of the measures these countries have taken to reduce the effects of the financial crisis. Today we are facing the government's first proposal to increase deposit insurance, which is quite all right, but we lost a month and a half. For what? Because that's what the DSS proposed in law form. That's not a good approach. We are not opponents when it comes to the well-being of citizens and when it comes to financial, economic and economic stability of this country. We've come out with concrete suggestions. You ignored it. We also came out with a proposal in October, and this was also given in the assembly procedure, to educate the Commission for the Monitoring of the global economic crisis and to take measures to mitigate negative influences. It could have also entered the assembly procedure. Why don't you want the opposition to be your partner on these serious issues? Here's an example. Prime Minister Sanader in Croatia called for a national unity over this. Some opposition parties there have accepted it, some have not, but the responsible government has done it. Why does this government run away to share responsibility with the opposition, who, according to the difolt, does not have to bear responsibility for what this government is responsible for? But we offer and make concrete proposals to meet the government and share that kind of responsibility when it comes to objective difficulties. We've passed another law and he's in congregation procedure. It is a law on income tax for citizens with a proposal, with the intention of reducing the rate of capital gains from 20 to 5% and abolishing the interest tax on foreign exchange savings. It is not good when the opposition is faster and more quality than the government, and when we live in such a time and when we are facing the dangers that have prevailed, obviously, and above Serbia. If it is rejected again because it has proposed DSS, it is simply not good and it does not serve the honor of this government which obviously does not have a clear concept. It is true that an agreement has been reached with the IMF, and that's what we told you 20 days ago when we discussed budget rebalancing, too, that we needed to do. We know it didn't come to your approval back then. Here, now we have this agreement with the IMF. Is that right? Is it not true that we have an agreement with the IMF or is it not true that we suggested it? So, we suggested it to you, and you didn't, at least when you answered our questions, you didn't make it clear and loud that this arrangement was necessary. There is also a statement by Prime Minister Cvetkovic that went in that direction that we do not need that kind of arrangement, now we see that this kind of arrangement is needed. We welcome it, but you've been late for a month and a half. If you continue at that pace, then many events will catch up and that's not good. The only thing you did, and that's proof that this government is weak, is that you had to give in under the pressures of the PUPS party, to approve a 10% pension increase, but let the public know that it's at the expense and subsidies in the area of agriculture, and social giving.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7368	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a set of laws relating to the functioning of the banking and finance system. Of course, the aim of passing these laws is to prevent, that is, the consequences of the global financial crisis that has taken place in the world. Unfortunately, authorities in this country have long refused to admit that these consequences will hit Serbia as well today, when they finally realized it, suggest passing this law, I think it is too late because simply according to some estimates we have. The majority of foreign exchange savings in banks in Serbia have been withdrawn. The government probably has more specific information about that. We know that money is goods, and it's the most competitive goods, and if there's no such goods, then surely there can't be a word about any development projects, production, but there's a general recession and a general crisis going on. We know that the state has taken certain measures to abolish the interest rate tax for savings, which is essentially good in this situation, but it is still late here, because the regulation or whatever it is, takes effect from 1 January 2009. We know that the traditional end of October and the beginning of November falls that week of savings and that the most role is invested in banks or is withdrawn from banks during that period. It should simply be borne in mind that our people have a bad experience with banks, that we do not remind, we all know well what happened to Jazda, Dafina and others, and in some ways this trust has begun to return to these banks, but these untimely and untimely moves have once again been lifted. Mrs. Finance is here and, as far as we know, she was at a meeting yesterday, negotiating with IMF representatives. The MPs in this congregation have not yet, or in an adequate way, informed of what was being discussed there. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that in this situation where the world is and how the financial crisis shakes that all serious countries flee from the IMF as the devil of the cross. The IMF is noose around the neck, and we're kind of holding onto that IMF as a drunk float. I've brought a journal to illustrate the situation in this financial fiscal monetary sector. Shows the daily list. ) This is today's daily "Politics" and on the front page, the title of the "Second debt burden". Not to read everything, I'll convince you what it's all about. It says here that the state of Serbia has nearly 30 billion total debt, with five billion debt coming toll in 2009. We know our foreign exchange reserves are somewhere around 11 billion. In 2009 alone, nearly half of the foreign exchange reserves for debt service should be allocated. There may be some service in 2009, but it will be critical and problematic in 2010, given that there will be no borrowing at that pace that has been so far. When I just mentioned this daily list as living in this country, here is today the same headline: "Serbians will not be lifted for travel to the EU during 2009. Gentlemen, the removal of visas and the white Schengen list was the striking fist of your election campaign and that was one of the reasons why you received this number of mandates and came to an opportunity to form a government. Now, let Serbian citizens think about it and let them appreciate whether you have fulfilled your promise. In today's session, one of the MPs mentioned another title, I have no intention of advertising this paper, he says, "Serbian champion of the gathering. "Only Latvia had more food collection in 2008 than Serbia. If we know that there are 44-45 countries in Europe, only one Latvia, and if we know the geographical position of Latvia that it is a northern European country, where climate conditions for food production are not nearly as favourable as that in our country, then maybe we can understand that. But if we don't have enough gas, we don't have enough oil or we don't have enough other strategic resources, so we have all the conditions to have enough food and it won't be this expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7370	The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in a debate that we are slowly bringing to an end on amendments and amendments to the deposit insurance law, the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation laws and social security laws, I think it is necessary, above all, to point to a few facts. In a country that is in transition there are huge social problems, there are largely corruption and crime, there is also a central bank, whether with a foreign governor or not, but there are no instruments to provide security sources for budget financing. The market is, it's clear to everyone, taken over. It's in the hands of strangers. Unemployment is huge, there's no talking about market growth, just like there's no economic recovery. The world recession has reached all of this as an additionally unsuspecting asset of the government. The peak is the banking sector in which the main role is called banks. The user's creditworthiness is minimal, both in the population and in the legal entities, and the potential of domestic banks has been destroyed. This is exactly one of the reasons for losing trust and, I think, the key things about everything that's ahead of us. So, this very way of selling the most attractive domestic banks obviously did not attract the attention of the competent lawyers and prosecutors, although it was carried out illegally, with enormous material damage, both to the shareholders of the banks and to the state itself. The consequence of that is what we have today, which is that they're so-called. foreign banks, taking the cutest banking job in Serbia, to give consumers credit to citizens eagerly for everything and everything, envied in black hundreds of thousands of their debtors. It's no longer enough just huge interest rates to sell their speculative non-existent money, but increasingly as a guarantee they take mortgages and up to three times the credit value. Since they don't have domestic banking competition, they don't have enough of that anymore, and besides mortgages, they're looking for a jury, and the fact that almost half of the Vojvodina's country is already mortgaged by Austrian banks, and that the car confiscation commission, say, they're getting more and more jobs out there, they're clearly talking about what kind of situation we're in. Maybe it's a real second question, what is the real interest or business of these foreign banks, whether it deals exclusively with these classic banking businesses, to collect savings, approve loans or just take over payment traffic and eventually connect with other Western companies that also operate here. The whole privatisation was done on two tracks. On the first track, the state made a pure coercion to the majority of the action package. It was first done in 2002 by adopting laws on regulation of relations between SRJ and legal entities and banks from the territory of the SRJ, which were originally debtors or guarantors according to the Paris and London Club's credentials, under which banks that were guarantors or debtors of the Paris and London Club were forced to issue 100% of the debts they owed to these financial institutions. Let us note that these debts were already forgiven at the time of the adoption of the law at 66%. Article 4 paragraph 7 of that law has literally threatened banks to be deprived of their work permit or to be subject to bankruptcy proceedings if they do not carry out this emissions. Since it's not a joke with the state, the banks have taken action in that amount and broadcast. Thus, by buying these actions, at the price it set itself, the state became the majority owner of these banks, in fact, of stock companies. Such a transaction, however, has significantly reduced the value of shares to other shareholders, i.e. it has been reduced by the nominal amount for which banks under the threat of forced action, which is 66% of the nominal amount of the reported shares and which is forgiven to the Republic of Serbia. By devoting such capital to other shareholders, the state gave itself the right to have other values available to the bank and even to sell them, but even this kind of nationalisation was not the only loss for other shareholders. All these claims, on the basis of which the banks had to broadcast the shares, the government declared them insurmountable. Unpaid, just to remind you, means a claim where there is no guarantee, no mortgages, no bonds, no assets, no insolvencies or small assets, that it threatens the limitations of the claim, or that it is already obsolete, or that the judicial path already lost the possibility of the payment of the claim being made. Since the majority, here for eight years, have managed the parliaments of shareholders and boards, thanks to the setting up of their party staff, of course, it is clear to all, it is about G17 plus, the bank intended to sell would decide and that these claims are sold even for one dinar to the Republic of Serbia. This is otherwise completely illegal management in a company, and it is particularly unacceptable when it comes to the work of a state authority i.e. Serbia's governments, which would have to protect the economic interests of all economic operators, both domestic and foreign, which operate in the state it manages, rather than degrade them. There's a lot of examples, and there's not much time anymore, so I'm just going to use more to finally say that all this is happening, that is, the situation that we've come into, and the proposed legislative solutions on the changes and additions to these acts that we have, are hardly going to be able to change anything more significantly, because I say nothing is overnight. This is already going on, it's been eight years, and if it wasn't for the dog barking while trains and trailers were passing, I think it's about time we imagined what was happening to us. Many of the amendments we have submitted speak about the quality of the legal solutions, so I think it is really necessary to radically change the policies that are being led. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7372	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. The word is Dr Dušanka Plecevic, please. Get Mirko Lightning ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first, on behalf of all doctors, I would like to congratulate all the doctors in Serbia, St. Drača Kozma and Damian and all the citizens who celebrate today's glory. The proposal to amend and supplement the laws on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies improves the current law in a normative sense, starting first with Article 1 of the proposal, where Article 9, and Article 7, where new members of 26a are added, b and v. Those members state that the Agency is obliged to pay off secured deposits in accordance with the law governing deposit insurance, then their priority payment in the case of voluntary liquidation and the like. The whole law with these changes would be quite satisfying, but on one condition, that as such it applies entirely to all whom it applies equally. However, this condition does not want to be fulfilled or not met, as is the case with many laws, or applied selectively. So we here are doing our best to help improve this law, because I don't believe that those who are obliged to enforce the laws will do so and will do so. Why am I saying this? Because one expert appeared in the image of Mladjan Dinkic, with his UBPOK, and during the night of December 31st 2001 decided to liquidate five of the strongest state banks, including Invest Bank, Business Bank, JIK Bank, Jugobanka, Beobanka and other banks that have founded Serbian businesses and have been their credit i.e. for decades. investment service. The expert had no intention of eventually resuscitating any of these banks, but intended to destroy both founders and the economy of Serbia as a whole. These are the facts and all those who come out here to defend the character and work of the gentleman mentioned seems unconvincing, his colleagues from his party. The greed, haughtiness, perfidence and financial malfeasances of this man are unconquered and we only remember his exhibition in the event of the withdrawal of eight billion dinars of the state deposit from the Commercial Bank and their introduction into the so-called. The National Savings Bank, so it became and went into private hands, as well as all of our money anyway. At the end of the day, this expert, you better say the incoherent center of power and false promises, divides our money however he wants and whoever he wants, so his IMF bosses were calling it a diletante, a class of unseen experts, selling them valuable rewards and diplomas. Unfortunately, there are other experts in our financial sector. Here are the mentions of Kolesar, Labus, Jelasic, Djelic and others, which appear practically out of nowhere to finish the work of the Serbian undertakers. Because the cause of the catastrophic state of the Serbian economy is not only the financial crisis in the world, but as Mrs Dragutinovic said in the opening statement, to quote it, let her deny me if I did not write it correctly - it is not disputed that our financial sector is also the cause of the crisis. I think you said something like that this morning, but you can deny me afterwards. As far as this law is concerned, while experts like this are wondering about everyone, I can say that so-called wasteful business because their decisions are beyond all laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7374	Thank you, Mrs. Plecevic. MP Mirko Munjic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7375	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, here's when there's a good will to work we've come to the end of almost this debate about these laws. Since you will, I suppose, praise these laws, I won't, so I'll try to point out some things that I don't think are good at. When you talked about the reasons for the adoption of the law, you said to increase the guaranteed amount of deposits from 3,000 euros to 5,000 euros due to active problems in the financial market, then to ensure, in addition to the natural persons, the deposits of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized legal entities due to financial stability, and it was determined that the Agency's obligation to proceed from the moment of the adoption of the National Bank of Serbia's decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings against the bank. When we discussed budget rebalancing for 2008, we talked about all the destruction of neoliberalism that introduces such a recession into the economies of the United States and Western Europe that can be compared to that of 1929. It is a kind of system and way of life, in which there is one basic principle of multinational companies that those who are rich should be even richer, and those who are poor are even poorer. There's no mercy here. The big ones swallow the little ones and that's the basic rule in this neoliberalism. However, the basic question with us, Madam Minister, did we have a financial crisis or not? I'm not asking this for no reason. In fact, only recently did relevant economic experts in our country, economic experts and economic analysts who support the government have told us and assured us that the retail financial crisis will not touch us or that the effects of the financial crisis on our country will be quite minimal. Intentionally or intentionally, knowingly or unconsciously, you did not accept that the amount of the secured deposit was seven and a half thousand, and then 20,000, as proposed by the opposition parties. Even then, we pointed out that the global economic crisis would hit our country hard, and that it would feel in its full effect in early 2009. And now we're convinced that there are no system solutions here. These are partial solutions that absolutely cannot influence the financial crisis from preventing or suppressing it. It's like trying to put out a fire with a glass of water. An interesting observation on this subject also gives you the Vienna "Prese", which in one place says something like this -- the region still feels painfully financial crisis, whether it is Sarajevo, Belgrade, Bucharest or Sofia, the national currency keepers do not spare on formulas to calm the population. The savings stakes in domestic banks are as secure as their own currency, the finance ministers and governors of national banks promise, but the paper notes that instead of local currencies in a bank of safe currency, such as the euro, dollars or francs, they are kept below the straw. And they tell us about the straw, and unfortunately we don't have a straw, and we don't have much money anymore. One of the formulas of pacifying the population, and in order to restore the pulverized trust in the banks, is a set of these laws. However, when the financial crisis knocks on the door, when there is a decrease in general consumption, when the poor population becomes even poorer and when the epidemic takes place, then'saviors' appear, and these are banks. Saviors, but under quotes. They promise us a better life, they promise us bigger and bigger interest. They're selling us the illusion that there's no crisis, that all we have to do is save, that we need to take credit, and there's a better life. The truth is completely different. When banks increase interest rates, and they are now 9.5-9 or 8.5% to foreign deposits, there's something wrong. Either the parent banks don't give them enough money for their liquidity, or their liquidity is compromised by some other basis. The logical question that's being raised here all day is -- whose banks are and what these regulations are about. Article 4 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act reads: "The guaranteed amount set out in this law may be increased by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the light of the previous NBS opinion that an increase is necessary in order to preserve financial stability. "The deposit insurance law was passed here in the Serbian Parliament according to established procedures and by certain criteria, in the way each law is passed. Why now, Article 4 of this bill provides that the Government can increase the amount secured? There are many attempts to minimize the work of this congregation. In all possible ways, even in this way, we see that we are trying to minimise the work of the National Assembly as much as possible. And the Assembly is the most legislative body. I'll remind you that Article 98. The constitution, which reads: "The National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. "Article 99. The constitution says, on jurisdiction, paragraph 7: "The National Assembly adopts laws and other general acts from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. "This article 4 transfers one part of the authority of this assembly here to the government or, better say, is not transferred, but is being taken over by the government. The government takes over itself, and all we have to do is name it, paralyze it by passing this law. Article 9 says the law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, so the question is again - why such a haste? Is there a financial crisis in the country at all or isn't there? If she's not here, then she's absolutely no problem these eight days. If there is one, then it seems to be severe, as soon as eight days is a big problem, so it's brought in by emergency procedure. I would refer a little further to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. In Article 9(4) - The Agency can buy on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic of Serbia bank actions that threaten financial stability by their business. Serbia is full of agencies. The more agencies, that country and people are getting poorer, the more agents. What are the criteria on which banks threaten the country's financial stability? What are these criteria and was it difficult to say in this law, to count these criteria, was it difficult to say who determine them, in what way, what is the procedure? That was absolutely not hard to do. Why didn't it happen, I don't know. I've got an impression, and this all looks like some new break-in into the bank with the phantoms and the AKs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7376	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Since no word has been reported on the list of MPs, does anyone in line with article 93 still want a word? Proposer representative, Madam Minister, come in. Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7377	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, we have before us a package of laws that is aimed at strengthening confidence in the banking sector. The banking sector is based on trust. Those who save have trust in the bank, and that's why they invest there, and the bank that approves the loans has confidence in its clients. So there's no bank that could stand a complete loss of trust. Trust is lost for two reasons. One is completely rational, the bank made bad business decisions. Bad business decisions have affected bank losses, and that's a rational reason. The second reason is psychological. So, the bank's doing well, but clients react due to bad experience quickly, pulling deposits based on bad news. So, psychological and rational reasons. Is it too late with this package of laws? I would like to remind you that on 16 October, the EU Council announced so-called. Harmonized measures. These are those measures that are recommended by countries to implement, those countries that are facing a financial crisis. So, two measures. First, all EU countries will provide a guaranteed deposit of at least 50,000 euros over a period of at least one year, and a second measure, a possible capitalisation of relevant financial institutions, only as a final measure. The state measures depend on the state of the banking sector, and the situation of the banking sector depends on the quality of business decisions. What is the quality of business decisions is most visible in the bank's business results. So, there have been a lot of objections, bad words, adjudications to the quality of the banking sector in Serbia, but precisely because of poor experience, perhaps too restrictive monetary policy has been led, precisely because of bad experience, hyperinflation, pyramid banks, loss of old foreign savings. The state is still returning the old foreign savings. It is precisely because of bad experience that the prudential rules of the Central Bank are extremely strict. Not only that, precisely because of bad experience, the credit activity of business banks is conditioned by having capital. Unlike most countries, loans are granted in Serbia almost equally from deposits and from banks' capital. That indicator is called capital adequateness, the standard is 8%, we have 28%, and now, the latest data. Is there or isn't there a financial crisis? There is, there is a financial crisis. What is the cause and where is the financial crisis? It came first in America, it moved to Europe, I don't want to remind you, but I have to say, just because of the bad, or too much expansional monetary policy and bad regulation. Credits are approved, residential, clients with bad credit history. There's cause, moral gambling and bad business decisions. In Serbia's banking system, based on all relevant indicators available on the central bank website, you will see that there are no bad business decisions, according to data. What do you see it in? In the profits made in the first ten months, the banks made a profit of 33.7 billion dinars. There's a order of moves. So I can't accept that the state hasn't done anything. Let's see what she's done. The first order of moves is - the first one is the central bank. There's a law on NBS that gives NBS the right to control business banks. They control themselves on a daily basis. It's a preventive function. There are measures by central banks towards business banks if there are some problems in the banking sector. So that's preventive. The second line of defense is if the bank has a liquidity problem. The credit relief measure is fully available, meaning liquidity loans available in the central bank. Otherwise, it's interesting that no bank uses liquidity credit. So banks don't have a liquidity problem. Next is this set of laws. Let me remind you that in early October we formed this advice to monitor the effects of the crisis. The annual IMF and World Bank assembly was just dedicated to the way some countries will react to the financial crisis. At the same time, representatives of the finance ministry organised a series of meetings with those interested, meaning with the financial, market and real sector, and collected all proposals from them. One of the proposals was this set of laws. Finally, I said what the EU Council published on 16 October. Is there any money to enforce this law? There is no state and there is no budget that can guarantee everyone at once. If we could imagine such a state and such a budget, we should never say it, because it would affect bad business decisions. Therefore, all banks to the total amount of foreign exchange savings pay the insurance premium, in order to provide funds to pay the guaranteed deposit only for some who find themselves in the problem. So if you're asking me if there's a fund that's equal to the amount of foreign savings, that means all the banks are broken. There's no such fund anywhere in the world. So, all banks pay to make sure that some who have problems have the means to meet their legal obligations. I repeat again, a far greater guarantee is a mandatory reserve on a 40% foreign exchange savings. This means that 40% of the 6 billion-euro foreign exchange savings are available immediately. Also, I don't know if there's any savings that came into the bank and asked to be paid for his foreign savings without it being done. So banks are liquid, they don't use liquidity loans. I said, in the first ten months, he won 33.7 billion dinars. Why should the state provide for large funds, and they're scheduled and I'll tell you where. In the profit-making sector. So the sector needs to achieve a loss in order for the state to react to a capital injection. Where are the funds, if necessary? They are located in an increased budget reserve planned for the 2008 budget, and are also allocated funds for intervention, if necessary, in the 2009 budget. So there's no fund equal to the foreign savings fund. It doesn't exist anywhere. It is certain that this kind of banking sector, with this much profit, does not need capital injections from the state. By the way, I'm open, I really mean it, for co-operation with parliamentary groups. The prime minister announced a meeting, I think it will be next week, with the heads of the parliamentary groups around the 2009 budget. I'm really open to co-operation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-14-0.u7378	I thank Mrs Dragutinovic for very reasonable information. I also thank Mr Ilic and Mrs Dragutinovic for their endurance with us. It is your obligation, but indeed your quite adequate and spotless participation and explanations have probably cleared up some of the questions that have been running around here all the time today as parliamentary issues. I am concluding a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank and Insurance Companies Act. Thank you for your participation in the debate.
