ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8358	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope today we will continue to work on the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Radojko Obradovic. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also today called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON THE SPECIFIC COUNCIL OF THE COURT (specificities) You have received amendments which were submitted to the bill by the following MPs: Radovan Radovanović, Zlata Đerić, Đorđe Milicevic, Petar Jojic, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojević, Milorad Buha, Mirko Munjic, Milan Nikolic, Aleksandar Martinović, Vjerica Radeta, Boris Aleksić, Sreto Perić, Ljubomir Kragović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Srdjan Miković, joint MPs Judita Popović, Natasa Mića and Slobodan Maraš, then, MP Miroslav Petović, Jovan Palalić, Milica Radović, Željko Tomić, Milos Aligrudić, Milos Radulić, Milos, Milan Lalić, Vladimir Laštić, Milan Paštić, Milan Pošić, Milan Pošić. Also, you have received an amendment based on Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Committee on Justice and Management to Article 22(6); Article 23(3); Article 24(5); Article 33(1); Article 50(2) and Article 52(1). It's a bill of law. You have received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 153(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8359	Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Petar Jojic, as former Deputy Minister of the Republic Government and Federal Minister, and given the need for knowledge in the area of the legal profession for composition in the Council, suggested the amendment, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Article 5. The bill also proposes to you, or to the Members of the People, a solution to the experience for members of the Council. Since I have to read because of the public, the Council has 11 members, which is a constitutional category, election members make up six judges with permanent judicial office, one of which is an AP territory, two prominent prominent lawyers, with at least 15 years of experience in the profession, one of which is a lawyer, and the other is a professor of law school. A colleague, Jojic, believes that instead of those 15 years, these two members of the Council, a lawyer and professor of law, should have at least 20 years of experience in the profession, given that the establishment of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the debate on this law and what the letter of the Constitution is, probably, in making what is a retrospective of time behind us and the human resources of the Dosovo government from October 5th to today – we have brought to high places and positions in our judiciary people who not only did not meet all these conditions and then prescribed, but also their experience, such as it is, was a real shame and shame for the Serbian public. Am I to remind you that before Zoran Djindjic asked Carla del Ponte to write this false indictment against our president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who was a professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, he began the whole heifer led by Vodanelic, Hiber, that plagiar Dr. Vojislav Liliæ and the rest of the click, so dirty and vile, yes, I am well advised by Serbian radicals, plagiar Stevan Liliæ, to say that Professor Vojislav Seselj, who is otherwise the most respected lawyer in Serbia, though, is now in absentia, but will soon return, was expelled from the Faculty of Law at the time. It wasn't enough for you that we gave you a series of evidence that all these people, whom you've praised as some experts in the legal profession, were actually your political promoters and those who won't let anything be said and said differently from what they represent. We are witnessing this, as well as the students of the Faculty of Law, if we are already talking about a respected professor of law, that Dr Vojislav Seselj was the most respected professor of Law and that his lectures were not only attended by students who followed his course – the political system, but also by these others and by the public. After all, Mrs. Radeta also knows, as his student-day friend, that his exams are at the Sarajevo Faculty, and that his exams were passed with a clean ten, followed by not only his colleagues from the Law School, but the economic and entire Sarajevo public. If we're talking about respectable lawyers, I don't need to remind you of that and mention the names of individuals, such as the one representing the Djindjic family, the one defending all these criminals of yours, who are the lawyers you consider respectable in your profession. Those lawyers in Serbia, who stamp the ways in which you choose and members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and judges, and judges of the Constitutional Court, are for you some product of the former regime, which you allegedly have knocked down and brought down, and you have brought us the worst and worst criteria for choosing everything in Serbia since you came to power. Therefore, in order to leave time to one of the best legal experts, SRS MP Krasic, Mr Krasic, to use these remaining 10 minutes on the amendment, I will only say that it is necessary to bear in mind that his colleague Jojic, indeed, is a man of the profession, who always, as a minister and as a respected lawyer, held letters of law, legal principles and principles that should be governed in one legal state, and that, judging by that, however, Ms Malovic, as his, by age, co-worker, with experience and knowledge, was able to see these days that fellow Jojic, with the best intentions, went to fix this whole set of judicial laws. In any case, we think, in fact, fellow Jojic, that it takes at least 20 years of experience to look objectively at what people who have made a real contribution to their profession, not to be biased, not to look through yours, 'yellow' or 'yellow', 'political glasses', but to see that Serbia has many respected and professors of law school and lawyers. But what can I tell you when it's impossible to convince you, when you are not a single gesture, in no word, stamped the black list of Sonja Biserko, on which, among other things, many respected professors of law school, lawyers and respected people from this profession. Comrade Krassic, please. Indeed, I want to say immodestly, it is my personal belief, and I believe the entire Serbian public, that you are one of the most respected lawyers and that, as such, you will be able to defend this amendment with your arguments and try to convince Mrs. Minister to accept all these amendments that we have submitted to this law on the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8360	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8361	Mrs. Comic, you'll have a nice situation to work from 11:30 to 12:00 hours, because then we'll be in the Trade Court, because we have a dispute over that blockade and that loan with the first-indicted Nikolic and the second-insisted Bank of Intects, I guess they haven't escaped from the bank yet. Please, you were at B92 last night, so you wouldn't accidentally obstruct the work of the National Assembly! Mrs. Kolundžija, there is no Mrs. Susane Grubjesic in the O.R., it's terrible, you're ruining our trip to Europe. As regards the amendment to Article 5. The government is partly right when it responded to Mr. Jojic's amendment, but it seems to me that they have gone a little crazy when it comes to Mr. Radovanovic's amendment. If you already had the right to insert what is written in the Constitution in Article 5(3), then you must have prescribed what is in the Constitution, so that MP gave the amendment and inserted the word "at least", you accepted it by hand, and when Mr Jojic did similar intervention, he did not go beyond what was prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for those two members of the High Council of Justice, it was prescribed that they had at least 15 years of working experience, that by any chance Mr Jojic's amendment was at least 10 years old, you would be right. Given the importance of this, he raised the condition a little bit in the framework of the prescribed Constitution and you refused, I can accept it as something that was absolutely not prescribed by the Constitution in that amendment, but then you had to have the same arsenal and on the subject of Mr Radovanovic's amendment. With all due respect to the justification of the intervention made by the amendment, Mr Radovanovic noted well, there are two APs in Serbia, election judges from that territory should be present, the number one wanted to show as – at least one, you accepted it, although this is a matter of solution in the Constitution. I'm just making a parallel between what Jojic suggested and what Mr. Radovanovic suggested. Both of them went beyond the Constitution, and you signed that provision into the law, you adopted its intervention as a precision, and you did not adopt Jojic, although it is, in essence, precision and does not question the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I wanted to draw your attention to, inconsistencies to amendments that are almost in the same rank. The other thing is much more important. Today, by some mistake, we do not have a very important debate on the government's trust, on the Eulex mission and the practical recognition of KIM's independence, directed by Boris Tadic and his government. Speaking of Article 5 and the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, then the public must know, according to a presidential statement by the Security Council, we will have legalised discrimination on the territory of KIM, because on one territory we will have citizens to apply the rules of the independent state of Kosovo, we will have over the river another category of citizens, according to which UNMIK regulations will apply and, if any of you come to their guests, the situation will be at risk that three of the same rules will apply to it – the independent countries of KIM, UNMIK regulations and regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Take the situation that a member of the High Council is a judge from the KIM territory. How would this man work in the High Council of the Judiciary if asked – which regulations apply in the territory of KIM? In KIM territory for the same thing we have three regulations, three sovereigns. We have a sovereign Kosovo, we have a sovereign UN, we have a sovereign Republic of Serbia. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know. Where does Boris Tadic lead with Cvetkovic, with a G17 plus? Now the G17 plus is hiding, so that the government doesn't fall, so they can steal freely, but the whole operation is to literally recognise independent Kosovo, because this is a condition to achieve the mirage of this left hand side called - the euro, Europe, the European side. I'm not going to waste your time, I've got better things to do right now, we're going to take down those blockades and make a concrete contribution to the chase against criminals and thieves, mandates and everything else. But, Serbian citizens, be careful, this government is taking us into the sun. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8362	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8363	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked twenty days ago for an answer to one question about the supply of drugs. That response from the government, or the Ministry of Health, was written on 8-11 and arrived in the Assembly on 24.11, and I received it on 28.11. Well, that's a minor kind of problem. I have to ask a new question, because that answer does not satisfy me and interferes with the role of the MP In response to the Government, it is said: "The government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a Regulation on the criteria for the establishment of the price of medicines which are as reference countries for the establishment of the price of medicines prescribed by Slovenia, Croatia and Italy. '"So, legally everything's fine. What's the problem? The problem is that in Serbia, about 300 US dollars per capita are allocated to health care, and these reference countries, at the rate of separation per capita for health care, look like this: Croatia spends 1.001 US dollars per capita, Italy $2,494 per capita, and Slovenia $4,724 per capita. The question is: have we reached the standards of those countries that, ten times as many people are out of their minds for health care, or have we already entered the EU without any knowledge and public notice? If that is the case and if the prices are so high, we will determine some reference countries, my question is – and when will the budget be? Let's see how many of us we're going to be out here next year on the head of the population. We may have reached the standard of some of these three countries, but I don't think so. I think we're still going to pay for these expensive drugs, and less and less people are employed, and there's less and less inflows in the Republic Health Services. So this is a question that needs to be opened about the budget debate. Once again, I repeat the question of the ruling coalition – when will the budget be?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8364	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8365	On behalf of the DSS Group, I would like first of all to express my gratitude and satisfaction that of the 15 amendments submitted by the DSS seven, and we have announced in principle that the debate in particular will be very good and quality and that there is a chance that any of our remaining eight amendments will be accepted today. To Article 7. The draft DSS law has tabled an amendment, and it refers to the 1st position that says: "The Council has a deputy president, elected by the election council judges and resolved by the Council. '"That's not controversial. This intervention is more, let's say, technical change, because in the explanation in which you refuse this amendment stands – "The six judges with permanent judicial office are election members of the High Council of the Judiciary. '"That, too, is not controversial. In the text of the draft law, it is necessary, in order to be precise, to distinguish between members of the Council according to the position and election members. Our intervention was directed in this direction that in the High Council of the Judiciary other than the President of the High Court of Cassation there are no other judges in place, everyone else is elective, so we think that this word is – election members, absolute pleonasm in this text. We just wanted to fix this text of the law in that direction, and otherwise it's very clear who are election members and who are the other members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8366	Anyone else want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Zoran Krasic recently noted something about the beating of some colleagues on a TV show last night with a national frequency. It is truly amazing that some MPs are trying to do so, sending some public messages via their televisions, taking away or trying to take away their right to work. A colleague from the party Bojana Krishte, who otherwise did not, as none of her colleagues, appear for two days, have been hidden in a mouse hole until they have seen what will be agreed between Boris and Junior about Bojan Krishte, for the robbery at the Airport, for the other robberies in public enterprises, now appears and criticises the MPs, and she is joined by Mrs Nada Kolundji. They criticise the MPs and say the opposition's MPs are responsible for why they have not passed laws in the area of justice, and that we do not care to pass these laws. I remind my colleagues, and above all, the public of Serbia at the obligation of the Constitutional Law, Article 5(2), for which absolutely, surely, we are not and cannot be responsible, but those who are the eight-year majority in Serbia, and now I ask you: Why did you not respect the Constitutional Law, why did you not propose to the National Assembly within the prescribed constitutional law, and as the parliamentary majority voted the laws in the area of justice? Why did you bring Serbia into an unconstitutional state more than once? Why didn't we have a Constitutional Court in Serbia, twice in two years? Why don't we still have conditions to complete the Constitutional Court, actually, we still don't have a Constitutional Court? You are obliged to answer these questions so that you can tell someone who participates in the work to try to obstruct the work. He also says, a co-worker – what is this way for SRS lawmakers to talk about the amendments of other MPs. Does this mean we can't even talk about the law because it's the ruling majority's proposal?- I'm sorry. Does this really mean that we should not talk about the amendments of other MPs? It would seem to me a better question, why don't you talk about the amendments of all the MPs to the proposals of your ship's laws. Or, if both the Government's representative and you were to answer how this happened that the government had adopted 14 amendments, and the law had 62 members, so one quarter of this law was not good, because if this proposal had been good then the Government of the Republic of Serbia would not have accepted any amendments. Then a representative of the government would say, I'm sorry, but the government has proposed an ideal solution. No, but the government has proposed a bad solution, unconstitutional solutions, laws full of legal voids, laws that will allow in their application the greatest possible abuse, the greatest possible law enforcement, and that will be your reform of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the congregation's majority. You're announcing all the bells of justice reform, and you don't have a positive opinion from any of the only professional organizations. Is there anyone besides members of the government and other than representatives of the ruling majority, I ask all the citizens who follow us, let's say, some expert, one of the lawyers, judges, prosecutors, and in public said – all the honors of the government of the Republic of Serbia, what they predict as a reform of the judiciary, it is without error and it is excellent. You don't have any such opinions. The general expert public is the general opinion that these are bad solutions, that you will bring the courts into collapse, as you have twice brought them. That, again, to remind you, who is obstructing the work of the state authorities, the work of Parliament, the work of the judiciary. I remind you, neither the citizens of Serbia nor the judges have forgotten it, because of your announcements of appeals courts, the cassation court, the Supreme Cassation Court, as you now call it, there has been a collapse in Serbia's judiciary twice. Twice, people didn't know who to appeal to, they were due deadlines for appeal, they didn't know which court was in charge, because the court that was in law did not exist in practice. The judges didn't know what they were going to do, they were holding onto their heads, and the question is, how much these judicial collapses that you of DOS have affected, twice in these eight years, and the age and extension of the deadlines, and the failure to exercise the rights of one of the citizens. You persistently yours, I must say, and brazen and rude steps criticising the MPs, who, in fact, work and want to work in this parliament and who want to work on the well-being of all Serbian citizens, make us remind you of all of your failures, not only in this area, but when we talk about justice, then, of course, we are talking exclusively about this area. I'm asking you, Mrs. Kolundzija and Mrs. Grubjesic, who is not currently in the O.R., she probably went to see where Kristo went, the carriage to be responsible? Given that all deadlines have expired when the National Assembly was due, that is, when the MPs had to get the budget to be able to prepare, to prepare, possibly, the amendments, it is clear to you that now we will get the budget that you will not be able to vote in accordance with the law, physically, that is already impossible from today, so will you and then send, as you like to say, messages, and to say that the MPs, who will want to talk about the budget, who will want to fix the Budget Law, are responsible for what the budget did not come within the deadline, because they will not be reached within the deadline? So why don't you tell me who's responsible yesterday at the Government of the Republic of Serbia there was no decision on the budget? The same way you do when it comes to these judicial laws. You're prolonging, as far as possible because you can't agree, because you don't translate well what you get from the white world, etc., and then, instead of participating in this Parliament's work, you're calling out to whoever wants to participate and who is extremely well-intentioned to help pass the laws that will last. You're making laws that will soon suffer change, it's not just a case now, you'll see, they'll live to see. Yesterday I didn't speak of an amendment to this law on judges, it seems to me, colleagues of Branko Ruzic, who asked to extend the deadline. I left that amendment, so when you ask for amendments and amendments to the law to change that deadline, then I will remind you and ask you why you did not accept that amendment, because of the bad experience, not to repeat, because of the two terrible collapses that took place in the judiciary because you failed to meet the conditions laid down by the Constitution and by the Constitutional Law, and now these laws that you will adopt and those laws that are still in force, and you would rather have accepted that amendment yesterday, so you might be able to boast that you did something before the deadline expires, not to ask that the amendments and additions be extended again. You'll see, Mrs. Malovic, that's what's going to happen. We'll see, of course. So it would be good to seriously entertain all that is today the problem of the Serbian state. You still didn't want to, but since June, you don't want us to discuss the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. We still don't know, I mean government representatives, what you celebrated yesterday, and what Serbia is, what Serbs in KIM got after last night's presentation of Ban Ki Moon. You heard yesterday, not to say again, what counterpart Marina Ragush was saying, of course, we will talk about when, and if, one day, our initiative to discuss the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia comes on the agenda. There are many problems, ladies and gentlemen, in the state of Serbia. The government is dealing with some peripheral stuff. You don't want to answer questions about why so many people lose their jobs every day, why the average profit has been reduced this much, what does it mean, essentially, is a nominal increase, what about this kind of pick-up? Are you wondering how long the Serbian citizens will be able to handle all this? Do you know how many people can't make ends meet now? Do you know how angry people are when they hear you say that the average profit is about 30.000,00 dinars? Everyone says, of course, it is, because there's a salary for Bojana Krishta of 30,000 euros! So, the citizens of Serbia are neither stupid nor crazy, nor are they MPs, and I really urge you not to resort to the intelligence of both the Serbian citizens and the MPs, and to accept that the government is doing its job, not to blame the MPs who draw attention to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what it is to be the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are obviously dissatisfied with the government's effects, but don't show it by reacting furiously to every appearance of MPs from the opposition's ranks in this place. Col. Miroslav Petkovic briefly explained his amendment to Article 7, and your argument, as the government's explanation, as well as all arguments, does not correspond at all to what the government has actually rejected this amendment. Article 7 says, "The Council has a deputy president, who is elected by election members of the Council, who is elected and resolved by the Council," proposes to delete the words "chosen", because, apart from the President of the High Court of Cassation, there are no other judges in office, and the word "election" is obviously pleonasm in this article. And you, then, as if you're joking with us, say (that's the answer) – "Six judges with a permanent judge's office are election members of the High Council of the Judiciary. In the text of the draft law, it is necessary, in order to be precise, to distinguish between members of the Council according to the position and election members, and to designate the judges – election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. ''So, your arguments are such that I'm sure, Mrs. Malovic, that you don't understand what's written here either, and I don't blame you because you certainly didn't write this, but it's better to be honest – we don't accept it because we want it to be like this. Because we know that it is the essence, and the real problems will only arise when the High Council of the Judiciary starts combing the courts, and when a large number of judges join the play of these unemployed and those who get fired daily, because you see judicial reform as the possibility of lustration of judges and prosecutors to the non-matched regime of Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8368	The word has a national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8369	Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the state, the national interests of Serbia are at stake, and the current government's behaviour is scandalous. MPs of the National Assembly and the public must be informed urgently and familiar with the full report by Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon, who is not available to the public in general. So they must be familiar with the report that Minister Jeremic, Boris Tadic and the current authorities have negotiated and accepted, without having had the National Assembly mandate for these negotiations. It is inadmissible to hide the facts from the messengers and the public! There has been no transmission of the entire UN Security Council session, tendingly transferred parts from this session that should serve to deceive citizens about the reportedly achieved diplomatic success! It's amazing that Ban Ki Moon's report hasn't even appeared on the UN Security Council's official website yet. What does that have to hide from the public?- I'm sorry. What was to be hidden from the public is that the current regime, headed by Boris Tadic, under pressure from Washington and Brussels, accepted the deployment of an illegal Eulex mission whose mandate is precise, which was the implementation of Ahtisaari's plan, and thus began the process of recognising Kosovo's unlawfully declared independence. Since the Ban Ki Moon report, as well as the UN Security Council session, hides from the public, we can only draw conclusions based on those statements available to the public. Those statements clearly support the claim I made, that the current regime has begun the process of recognising Kosovo's independence. The State Department's statement said: "The US welcomes the UN Secretary-General's plan and the significant progress made in Kosovo since the February declaration of independence and strongly supports EULEX. ''The statement said: 'The importance of full respect for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Kosovo. In this context, we are particularly aware of the UN Secretary-General's determination to measure the measures foreseen during the transition from UNMIK to EULEX are applied in continuous co-ordination, with consultations with Kosovo authorities. The United States supported the UN Secretary-General's decision to adapt to this new positive reality by reducing UNMIK numbers and transferring competences to EULEX'. So we see that the secretary-general recognises Kosovo authorities, has agreed with Kosovo authorities that there will be a period of transition from UNMIK to EULEX and that the United States is satisfied, because full respect for Kosovo's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity will be achieved and that all of this is confirmed in the Ban Ki Muna report, which is hidden from the public. According to a statement by Eulexes spokesman Victor Reuters, we learn that the Eulex mission in Kosovo will submit a report on work to Brussels, not the European Union. The head of Eulexa, Eve de Kermabon, shows – my chain of command is the European Union. So, we demand that MPs receive an urgent report from the UN Secretary-General before we discuss the government's confidence, that Minister Jeremic and Boris Tadic stop ignoring Parliament and submit to the MPs a report on the secret negotiations they have led on what they have adopted without having had the Parliament's mandate. Also, we demand an urgent report from the authorities, what measures are being taken and what is the plan to protect Serbs when it comes to the terrorist group's announcements, which is called "the Army of the Republic of Kosovo", which announces that it will attack Serbs and that "cut off Serbian heads" will send to Serbian politicians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8370	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8371	Mrs. Komic, I'm calling on a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure. I think in the application of that member you should go with a little broader interpretation, and now you're going to see what makes it necessary. Today we learned that this topic on the agenda is very important, it is one in a series of laws concerning the judiciary, and I share that opinion, aware and risk that all these laws that we are talking about today are practically starting to apply on 1 January 2010. But most of them are able to impose agendas and impose the importance of some part of the agenda. The public has had opportunities, through some television shows, but also by reading the newspaper, to learn that these are the most important laws for the Republic of Serbia at the moment. If so, then there should be dialogue here between the opposition MPs and the government MPs, to hear what that opinion is. I think this assembly of the National Assembly is extremely rich for another great pleasure. Here are the dominant representatives of the Dosmanal regime, Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, as close associate Boris Tadic, the main ideologist of DS, Mrs. Kolundzija, who runs the entire group, who has very good views on these issues, is currently absent Mrs. Grubjesic, who is constantly saying that what needs to be done on the agenda, that it does not go out of order, you see, there is no, probably those from G17 are counting somewhere in the budget. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that during this debate you look a little bit at this left-hand side and give word to these MPs here, to let the citizens hear, to get acquainted with these far-reaching opinions and attitudes, because, you know, a little, a little bit, so we hear from this side -- but we won. I get the impression that the way they win, that's how Serbia sinks. Your victory is so painful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but you have to come out and show it - we won to do something good. You know, it's not nice that we're the only ones criticising the bill, and you have to praise the bill a little bit, and that in this confrontation of attitudes, conflict of opinion, citizens themselves conclude why you won, how much you won, and how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia lost with your victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8372	There's no damage to article 27. Rules of Procedure, in the context of the request for a little broader interpretation. But, of course, there's always a deal to be made on interpreting members of the 27th and its provisions. That depends on the president of the parliamentary group. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 153(6). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12(1). The proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary and suggested that the words "five years" be replaced by the words "four years". In your explanation, you stated that the provision of Article 12 is Article 1. Proposal for a law in accordance with Article 153(6). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the mandate of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary lasts for five years, except for members in position. For public reasons, I have to read the full article 12. Bill proposal: "The mandate of members of the Council takes five years, except for members in position. Election members of the Council may be re-elected, but not consecutively. During the term of office, a judge who is a member of the Council cannot be elected judge of the second court. "The opinion and attitude of the SRS is that this time period of appointment should be four years, regardless of the constitutional provision, your commitment, what has been stated in the Constitution for five years, we remain in our position to correct it for four years. What is even more important, however, is that here we need to take a critical look at the work of the current government and point out the non-execution of obligations that the current authority had to carry out under the provisions of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. I'll mention Articles 5, 6 and 15. Constitutional law. What you missed, what is related to Articles 5 and 6, should not have missed what is provided for in Article 15. Constitutional law, which is to harmonise the provisions of all legal regulations with the provisions of the Constitution. For the third time, I ask the question, when will the Ministry of Justice in this case propose amendments and additions and agree all legal projects that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and comply with the provisions of the Constitution? The deadline is 31.12 this year. We've had plenty of time, two years, to bring all the laws into line and have a clean situation. Unfortunately, no ministry has made an adjustment and we have hundreds, even thousands of legal regulations that are not in line with the provisions of the Constitution. Next thing you know, what about the national justice reform strategy? The reform of the judiciary was brought in the fifth month of 2006. For two and a half years, we have done nothing to revive the national strategy for judicial reform. We have now entered the reform of the judiciary without thorough preparation. Again I ask the Ministry of Justice – what is the fate of the National Justice Strategy? What has been adopted, which is now valid, is that we have provided for this national strategy and forinnovation of state authorities, innovation of competences. We've brought basic principles to justice reform. We have determined how to reform the judiciary. What financial resources are needed for judicial reform, deadlines, short-term, medium-term, long-term. What is the fate of this strategy? What we're discussing now disagrees with the National Strategy for Justice Reform. Did we put her out of power and who had the right to put a valid, adopted, national strategy by this assembly? We should not have approached justice reform the way we came without a new strategy if we do not apply this one. The current government is showing its true character again. What's adopted, what we have to do, we don't execute. We're pushing some of our own politics. We can't do it without a national strategy! First and foremost is the national strategy, amending the legal rules, making sublaws, setting up all persons necessary under the laws, etc., all that is related to the national strategy and what is related to the enforcement of the legal provisions. That's what we do in practice. That's what's harmful to the interests of this society. I need to get to know the Serbian public about certain activities of the authorities, which are also harmful to Serbian national interests. It's a matter of certain affairs arising from the conflicts of war in the 1990s. Namely, between Serbia and Croatia, an agreement was reached on the return of cultural, historical exhibits, items taken to each other, stolen, damaged, etc. The Serbian side has done everything to implement what has been agreed on by the joint commission of Serbia and Croatia. So a few days ago, we returned 33 icons to the canvas, eventually destroyed in war conflicts by Croatian soldiers in 1991 at the Orthodox Church in Dale, Republika Srpska Krajina. These icons have been renovated, repaired, restored to their original state and have been returned to the Orthodox Church in Dale. The Serbian side has done everything to bring back 30,000 inventory units of cultural and historical exhibits from Serbian Orthodox churches in Republika Srpska, which were damaged in war conflicts by Ustasha soldiers. I must say that the Croatian side does almost nothing to restore all that it has destroyed in the war conflicts in Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. I will now mention that there are 38 Orthodox churches that have been destroyed to the ground in the Republic of Croatia and another 40 that have been damaged. The first church to experience enormous damage is the Mytropolis in Zagreb, which was mined and almost completely destroyed, all icons, books and religious objects were damaged, and the vandal act was done on 11 April1992. During the same day, on 11 April 1992, the Serbian Orthodox Church Museum in Zagreb was mined, or damaged museum exhibits, books, icons and everything else from the 13th to the 19th century. In Zagreb, three parish homes were also destroyed, damaged and burned. Furthermore, a break-in, stealing and breaking of icons and other exhibits was carried out in Zagreb in the women's monastery of St. Friday. The church of the Holy Cross was damaged and destroyed in the town of Veliki Zdenci in 1996. In Bjelovar, the parish church of the Holy Trinity was demoted and robbed in 702,1992. The church was mined in Bolc on April 1,1996. The church of St. George was mined in Varazdin and badly damaged in October 1992. In the town of Velika Barna, the church of St. Mark was damaged and robbed several times from 1991 to 1993. In the town of Great Painful Church of the Holy Archangel Michael was mined on December 24, and 25, 1992. In the town of Velika Petrovica, the Church of St. Friday was demoted and robbed, the iconoscess was completely destroyed from 1991 to 1993. In the town of Velika Pisanica the church of St. Lazarus was destroyed and the parish home was demoted and robbed from 1991 to 1993. In the town of the Great Ugly Church of the Holy Trinity, it was also destroyed and the iconosas were damaged. In the town of the Great Zdenci, the church of the Lord's Ascension was robbed and destroyed, and the construction material was carried away in 1996. In the town of Glogovac, the church of St. George was burned on 9 May 1991, before armed conflicts, burned the front door. In the town of Grobelno Ivaničko, the parish house was attacked in 1992; under, doors and windows were carried away, and the church was completely burned. The town of Grabovnica, the church of St. Vid, was completely robbed and severely damaged from 1991 to 1993. Then Grubisno Polje, the church of St. George, the town of Donja Rasnica, the Church of the Holy Mothers was robbed and badly damaged from 1991 to 1993. The place of Javorovac, the church of all the saints is damaged, the place of Cablar, the church of St. Nicholas. In Koprivnica, the Church of the Holy Trinity was damaged, windows broken, icons almost destroyed. In the town of Cross, the church of St. John the Baptist is severely damaged. In the town of Kupinovac, the Holy Birth Church of the Holy Mother was destroyed, burned and robbed from 1991 to 1993. The town of Mala Trešnjevica, the Church of the Holy Ones is also damaged. Little Grđevac, the Church of the Holy Prophets, was robbed, and the parish house was completely burned from 1991 to 1993. The monastery of March, the chapel of St. Archangel Gavril, was shot down by a mine in 1997. The town of Narta, the Church of St. George destroyed, damaged, etc. The Plains, the church of St. Archangel Peter and Paul repeatedly robbed and destroyed. The town of Sonik, the church of the 19th and 20th centuries was mined. 12th of1992. The place of Severin, the church of the Holy apostles Peter and Paul, was severely damaged from 1991 to 1993. Then, in the city of Sibenik, the church of St. Archangel Michael was completely robbed and demoted. In Sisak, the Church of St. Friday. Furthermore, the town of Srijeska, the Church of the Holy Mother's Success, was completely saved, mined from 1991 to 1993. Furthermore, the Church of St. George's is severely damaged, and the parish hall is completely torn down from 1991 to 1993. In Stupovac, the Church of St. Dimitri was mined, and the parish home was completely robbed from 1991 to 1993. In the town of Turkevic Polje, the church of St. Archdjacon Stefan was completely torn down from 1991 to 1993. The place of Gadjevac, the church of the holy apostle Tom, was completely torn down from 1991 to 1993. I only read this so that the public would know what the Ustasha hordes had done in the period 1990 to 1995, and we can see from this data that the vandal behaviour of the Croatian state and Croatian authorities was also in the post-1995 period, following the biblical exorcism of the Serbian people. The Justice Department certainly doesn't have any data, so I'm going to hand over this information I read here. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution, together with the associations of Krajisnik citizens, has actively worked to collect certain data relating to property, property rights, social rights, this is a concrete work of the Association of Pensioners from Croatia relating to the incomes of outstanding pensions in the period from 1991 to 1998, so I will hand this material over to the Ministry of Justice, because it will be necessary for him to make the case, following the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All relevant data related to violations of international law, then, the inability to achieve pensions in Croatia, the problems of determining the evidence of the insurance standings, the problems of the work experience, problems with outstanding pensions, etc., etc. This will be necessary to the Ministry of Justice, so I'm giving a copy of this elaborate to the minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8374	The word has been given by the MP Srdjan Mikovic, so Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8375	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are here today discussing amendments to the draft law on the High Council of Justice. I did not want to report on the amendments submitted which, in practice, claim that the Constitution, and this constitution, which was adopted two years ago in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, claim that it is allegedly not good, but I must report on the submission of the amendment which is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and as a member of the Legislative Committee, it is my duty to point out once again that the amendment of Mr Milorad Buha is absolutely contrary to Article 153(6). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is explicit that the mandate of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary lasts for five years, except for members of the post, means it cannot be four years. I was just waiting to see if there was a need to take my word for it, I expected Mr. Buha to withdraw this anti-constitutional amendment during his discussions on the amendment. Since it is not, I believe it was our duty to point out once again that this amendment is against the constitution. I don't think it's too late to withdraw that anti-constitutional amendment until the moment of the amendment vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8376	National MP Milorad Buha, right to replication on the basis of Article 101, direct mention and interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8377	In my presentation, I said that the constitutional provision was clear and that it was 'five years'. However, this constitutional provision is not invariable either. The position of the SRS is that this should be tied to a period of four years, as much as the government's choice and the choice of all other state bodies. So this is how we tried to initiate a change in both this and a change in constitutional provision. So nothing is unchangeable. It wasn't our intention to break the Constitution, it was just to indicate that we're bound by this election in four years, as we're bound to select all the other state authorities that are elected for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8378	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8379	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by discussing this amendment, in fact, I want to point out that story of respect for the Constitution. In fact, it would be good if this amendment was written just out of ignorance. It is justified, acceptable and can always be apologized, to say – I'm sorry, I didn't know what it says in the Constitution. But to say, we knew that the Constitution had laid down for five years, but we're proposing four years is an attack on the Constitution. Do you perform it in a tribune, a rally, in one of your writings, where you could criticise constitutional provisions or from a congregation speaker, where you directly show that you do not respect that constitution. And why didn't you beat Vladna Batić, he was here for a while, and he made Alexander Stefanovic falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj? I guess he was supposed to be banging, not me, because you're talking nice to him, and you're trying to distract me from what I want to say for a while. So there's no excuse when you're doing something unconstitutional. It is also unconstitutional that you have accepted that today's session is going on about the amendments, not the discussion of the government's mistrust. You are no longer interested in mistrust of the government, as a representative of the political party and the parliamentary group whom you have not offered to participate in the signing of a no-confidence motion, I expected the ruling majority, and you, too, to respect the five to 15-day deadline and that within 15 days that item will be on the agenda. Your agreement exists, the ruling majority denied you that session, you didn't say a word against it. But you're pounding! And even if the Constitution doesn't matter, you'll be changing members of the High Council for four years, what do you care what it says in the Constitution for five years! And the fact that you yourself participated in this, many of you voted in the Assembly for this constitution, many of you invited citizens to the referendums to declare the Constitution, which is what you are now absolutely concerned about. So it took the Legislative Committee, Your Honor, to reject the amendment, and not to have us here now speculate on that amendment or to persuade the MPs to give it up. If they wanted to give up, they wouldn't have written it. But you have the right to say that the amendment is not legally possible and is not and is not being debated. And he can't be pulled now. It's written tendantly, to challenge a debate about how bad the Constitution is. The constitution is good, and anyone who thinks he can bring Serbia a new one should proceed in the process of changing the Constitution. (During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, SRS MPs were banging on the benches. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8380	Anyone else want a word? People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8381	I appeal to the Rules of Procedure and to Article 104 of the esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. You've heard an explanation from a representative of a quasi-lite group here, who resented us for banging. We're not banging you, Mr. Nikolic, we're banging your illegal status in these assembly benches. Don't take it personally. No personal relationship exists between me and you, which here would be the subject of mockery. Believe me, just what we're pointing at and why all your amendments are, when you come out here, the amendments with the slamming, in part, I don't want to be ambiguous, don't get caught up in it and tell me I want to disrespect you, we're just pleading for legality, since you're pleading for constitutionality. We're just saying that you can't be an SRS at the same time, as it stands on our Assembly's website. It is the only way you can survive in this congregation until new elections occur. We don't mind that you're some new party, we don't argue. Of course, when you get your legal status in the legal elections. It's the only problem we're banging, and we would never forgive you for in any way jeopardizing the status of our president, Mr. Vojislav Seselj. Quite often, both you and your teammates mention the name Vojislav Seselj, we think completely unnecessary. The trial is public, all about Vojislav Seselj and his defence of Serbian citizens can see. Don't help or get away, because apart from being dishonest, it's not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8382	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Time is at the disposal of the Prosperity Group, Serbia is twelve minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8383	I don't want to use the time foreseen for the amendment to answer. Finally, a man who I appreciate and who I can't understand is what he's doing. But everyone has the right to behave as they please. I didn't take anything from you. Namely, Article 102. The constitution says the MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal he was elected to in the National Assembly. I have the free will not to make my mandate available to the SRS, and I did not make it available to the SRS. If you're going to stop because you think it's unconstitutional, immoral, or whatever you want, then don't beat yourself up when I get out, because if you get those terms don't depend on me at all, it depends on the ruling majority. Knock when they come out for a pay phone. It's their fault you don't get those terms. Or beat your MPs because you never formally requested those mandates. You know the way, under certain conditions. If you meet any of the conditions of the law, file a request that I be no longer a National MP. What are the terms of the law? Well, at least I resigned from you. I didn't resign. Imagine what a shame it would be to look at individuals now that I've resigned from them. I couldn't stand it. I'm so glad I didn't resign. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8384	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8385	Mrs. Komic, I understand your situation, because you are as the chairman of the Assembly brought into this unkind situation that you have to listen to that someone who is, you will tell me later that it is not a citizen, I say that citizens are honest people, this who was just behind the pay phone is someone who is indeed more of an observation case by the President of the Assembly, because every day I get new evidence about it. Yesterday, my friends from Germany sent me sixteen extensions of an interview or already feleton from "Frankfurt News" – a life-long story of that individual and this individual Tomislav Nikolic. You know, when you think you know someone and you can have a basic communication that you have with a person, of course, until he does what he did – he stabbed President Seselj in the back, stole the SRS, took the mandates, but you live in some illusion that for so many years you know a person who has the elemental honor, morality and honesty, and, now you see, from the statements of this, alone, individual, that nobody and that bottom is anything, which our people would say! Because those statements, and especially the fact that they're surrounded by anthraphies in the sixteenth extensions of the Frankfurt News, not only has it affected our entire diaspora, but we who have come to that. After all, you have seen for yourself what a plight it is, what a plan to harm and kill the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Perhaps you didn't follow that evening, November 21st, when Mr Stefanovic discussed it at the trial, it was two nights ago, with the party's president, in one of those extensions, the individual said that he was here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia bar one night talking to then Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, who told him the indictment against Dr Vojislav Seselj was being prepared. Then he "Frankfurt News", not blinking, lying, said he had entered, returned and informed Dr Vojislav Seselj about it. Of course, he never told him that, because apparently this complex, this man, was from the very beginning such that he would never heal himself. You know, according to that folk, when you have such a foundation in your mental frame, then someone comes with millions of dollars, a euro or whatever, to buy you out, just like domestic tycoons and Americans did with it. The man, by the way, is a man of money, that's who he is, that's what his whole family is. (President: National MPs, three minutes. What member of the Rules of Procedure are you calling for to be injured? Therefore, I have nothing more to answer and to speak to someone for whom I am ashamed, me, as a born Kragujevchan woman... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8386	People's MPs, in the third minute I asked you to tell a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured. Since you didn't do it, you didn't have the grounds to get the right word. The People's MP, Pai Momchilov, is looking for a right to replication. Excuse me, MP, MP Tomislav Nikolic has answered the floor of the Rules of Procedure and has the advantage. National MP Pai Momcilov changes the request for a word from the replica to the Rules of Procedure, but you have a word after MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8387	First, let me advise you, if you touch someone's family, start your own, and then you'll know what family is. I'm avoiding anyone's family here, because I know what family is, and that's easy for you. I say, start a family, and you'll be a lady. So I heard that lie at the trial. [[Applause]] You saw that Aleksandar Stefanovic tried to correct Vojislav Seselj, as it says there, "Cedomir Jovanovic told me". Mr. Jovanovic will come. That's my statement you have in at least fifteen interviews from then to today, you have in books published by the SRS. In January 2003, here, outside the hall, Cedomir Jovanovic told me, "The indictment against Vojislav Seselj has arrived. Tell him if he wants to go somewhere, run, hide, we'll let him. Russia, Cuba." I called Vojislav Seselj, she was a session of the Federal Assembly, and he said, "This time Zivkovic of the DS told me so that you do not engage in lies. I know a man has to defend himself in every way possible, I approve, but read a little bit in the books of the SRS, which you went up to yesterday, what it looks like to be true about who found out about the indictment. Otherwise, if Vojislav Seselj and I hadn't found out in January that the indictment had been filed, had arrived in Belgrade, but if they were still holding it, Vojislav Seselj would not have been able to handle private affairs, would not have been able to call the party congress and hold it, so that only then, voluntarily, only a month and a half after that, he would have gone to The Hague. So, with disgust, I reject the story of Vojislav Seselj, which you are carrying here, that in January I found out about the indictment without telling him. They are alive, thank God, and Cedomir Jovanovic, as well as Zivkovic, who was then Prime Minister, say when one of them told me and who told Vojislav Seselj when the indictment was brought against him. And you, Mr. Bhuha, for banging so beautifully in the bench, at the very least you have a conflict of interest here. You are the Prime Minister and the People's MP and should resign as Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8388	National MP, before the time specified to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you did not specify a member. National MP Paja Momcilov wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), so the People's MP Milorad Buh and the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to replicate and I wasn't allowed, it doesn't matter. The bottom line of what I'm saying is, Mr. Nikolic has called on the Constitution, it is not disputed that such a norm exists in the Constitution. However, something else is disputed. It's a dispute that I, like Paja Momchilov, not because I think I'm important, I can't and I never, ever, a few years back, could use something like that. It was never possible for me to use that right from the Constitution and believe that I did something far less evil per party to be sanctioned and that I from this Parliament would fly with express force by activating my resignation. There's one problem, someone can say morally, whether this society will agree to the left, the question is, because we know that DS has declared that moral politics should not be sworn. He's right, Mr. Nikolic, when he says they're guilty of what's going on here. We're aware of that. However, if we were to strike at their silence when the debate on amendments is being held here, I should not prove to you, the citizens of Serbia are aware of it and how the blow that has been inflicted on them for the last two days is again assessed clearly by the citizens and it is seen whether we are coping with the state that is in the country today, which is the most thanks to the uncivil coalition. In the end I'd just say, I'd like to call you again, Mr. Nikolic, don't flaunt here with Prime Minister Seselj, he can't answer you, and you can, and you and Mr. Vukic have open all the media in this country. You can challenge and express your views in newspaper articles, and the SRS, you see the paradox, can't. At yesterday's SRS press conference, there was one single camera, and it's known that when one is the only one, that what is needed for someone to record, so that they can analyze it, and they can't let it into the air, so that Serbian citizens can watch it. Of course, another thing that is very interesting, and I end up, we condemn this left hand side and their unprincipled behaviour, and aren't you prepared to support their budget and support, even the minority government of this Prime Minister Boris Tadic, is not Cvetkovic, Boris Tadic?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8390	National MP, you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. (Paja Momchilov: Article 104) Within three minutes you have a duty to the Rules of Procedure, you have denied that you are not allowed to receive a word for the replica. Please consult the Rules of Procedure on the order in which the MPs receive their word. MPs who seek and wish to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure are given the word before MPs who seek a replica. Please also consult the head, the president of your parliamentary group, there is an agreement that during the emphasis on violations of the Rules of Procedure, the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. So you didn't have the grounds to get the word. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to speak to the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8391	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this one just came out at the pay phone, and I'm sorry I didn't just mention the member I was reporting for, Article 104. Now, according to the article. In 225 and 226, I ask the competent authorities, especially the Council, as it is already called, for co-operation with the anti-Serb, The Hague tribunal, whether it has information that Tomislav Nikolic, an apparently unprotected witness and a co-worker in the process against Dr Vojislav Seselj, given that he, from day to day, has noticed the entire Serbian public, is openly and from the speaker, sending messages to The Hague tribunal's prosecution. Yesterday, and don't go so easily over everything he's saying, too, to mention one of the brilliant witnesses, who, apparently, has now become a witness to the defence, Mr. Aleksandar Stefanovic, very uglyly spoke about counterpart Stefanovic. Now he just said that everything he said, be careful, you have it in a stenogram, it's a very dangerous thing, he's sending a direct message to Brammerc and Kristina Dahl and the judges of The Hague tribunal, Dr Vojislav Seselj has the right to say, because he is defending the right of the man, and he is lying to defend himself – he said earlier from the pay phone that in the court of The Hague tribunal, the man who defends himself, the man who, on the justice of the god there, who he knows, just now admitted, that then Djindjic's regime wrote a false indictment, is therefore, as an associate, I am absolutely sure of the Hague tribunal, a third time in a row, three working days, every day around this time, that Professor Vojislav Seselj there is a lie. You from the DS, from G17, and those who do not belong to any other party, and are citizens of Serbia, admire and respectfully look at the way Dr. Seselj does from day to day, not only defending himself but Serbia and the Serb people, and what he unequivocally proved last night in an interview with a former colonel, now in reserve, the armies of Yugoslavia. When that individual came out of the O.R. and tried to give me some sermons on private life, and you didn't warn him, which was your obligation, Mrs. Comic, I can only say as, first of all, a well-trained and honorable Serbian woman, that I am appalled by the fact that the man who said, and that is also one part of the interview with the French News team, that the party is like marriage. Because if you don't like something, so do the citizens of Serbia and young people who have yet to start a family like Nikolic sends a message, if you don't like something – then you can change it. Because, as he said to the French News, he said it to himself - until you get married, no one asks you where you're going or what you're doing, and when you get married, your wife asks you where you've been, and yesterday no one asked you... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )... Then he did so, I end up, Mrs. Komic, it will be useful for you, because you are also the mother of four children, and you are an honorable woman in this regard, although you are from another political party, to see what kind of man it is and what messages he sends immorally. Then he says, "Well, when it's like that and every day he asks you where you're going and what you're doing, then you can't take it and then change it, so you should also change the political party." (President: Four minutes. I see that it is a man who is a person of immorality, who is also in such a way, and by sending such messages should be pictured over the fact that he will preserve his family without taking care of others. As he did not care about Dr Vojislav Seselj's family, so he should not care about mine or any Serbian radical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8392	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8393	I need to get to know the Serbian public about the citizens' activities of Nikolic in forming Republika Srpska's government in persecution. When the government was to be formed, he was advocating the formation of the government. He talked all over the province about the Republic and about the huge problems of the Serbian people, talked about "great Serbia – today the "great Serbia" is denied. The public must know that no moment has shown good will towards the Krajisniks, especially in the last two years. Almost all political party representatives, almost all active senior members of the SRS, joined the Republika Srpska government, except Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. This made it clear that they had a relationship with the people of Serbia, the Krajina people. They told us about "The Great Serbia", and now they're giving up "The Great Serbia". So were they lying or are they lying now? They lied and then and now – then out of use, now out of kindness. This is pure kindness, character and work of Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8394	People's MP in a minute and 23 seconds you didn't point out which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, you had no basis to get the word He didn't ask for a replica, he wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: He asked for a replica.]] He has the word National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8395	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you, Mrs. Comic, have had to protect the People's MP Milorad Buhu, because he is a injured member of 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Milorad Buha did not harm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Proposing an amendment that is not in line with the constitution does not mean that MP Milorad Buha has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No amendment can insult the Constitution. It is possible by adopting an act of lower legal force to harm some constitutional norm. The amendment is not a legal act. The amendment is the intervention of the MP to fix something in the law, in his opinion and his interpretation, is not good. Whether his interpretation is correct or not, in the end, he will say his word to the National Assembly when she votes on it – whether to adopt the amendment or not. Therefore, the first thing that is certain is that Mr. Milorad Bhuha did not harm the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As for the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic, it is obvious that he has, in some ways, developed a conscience. As a final or incomplete, or a lawyer in an attempt, he is aware, perhaps subconscious, that by stealing the mandate of the SRS has in fact seriously violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now that conscience has worked for him, but since he is not brave enough to say that he has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by stealing the mandates of the SRS, he is now trying to defend the Constitution, and that, to defend the constitution from Mr Milorad Buha, as Tomislav Nikolic protects the constitution and defends the principle of constitutionality and legality, and Mr Milorad Buha, allegedly, violates the principle. So it's clear that there's a clean replacement here. Just now, Tomislav Nikolic has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a member of 102 that clearly says -- that the mandate of a MP can be made available to the SRS. All SRS MPs have made the mandate available to the SRS, and the instrument they have done so is so. The blank resignation. Mr Nikolic stole those resignations and thus prevented the mandates from returning to the SRS. That is true and the ruling majority in this National Assembly knows that, and you too, the chairman, Mrs. Komic. Since Tomislav Nikolic has not yet spoken out, i.e. I am not yet aware and I am not sure to the end whether he is, indeed, a graduate lawyer or not, until he has given sufficient valid evidence on the subject, I advise him to stick to his brandy in Bajcetina, it is certainly understood, and the Constitution and who violates the Constitution better to keep quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8396	There's no breach of Article 104. The amendment shall be submitted in the procedure, but note that it does not comply with Article 153(6). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which the MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Milorad Buha, in the replica and in the exhibition, opposed each other through dialogue. The word has a national emissary of Elena Christmas-Talian. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, so MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8397	They're art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the question for the authorities stems from the fact that it is becoming increasingly evident that the war crimes prosecutor's office, headed by prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic and spokesman Bruno Vekaric, is an American political exhibit rather than a judicial one, and an extended arm of the UN tribunal in Serbia. From this position, the prosecution draws enormous power that allows it to be out of all the authorities of our country's control. A specific case I would like to state was presented in an interview with a defence witness in a case against Vojislav Seselj before The Hague tribunal, Aleksandar Stefanovic, in "The Voice of the Public" since 26 November, and more detailed in his testimony to the tribunal. Stefanovic presented the following facts – that the war crimes prosecutor's spokesman Bruno Vekaric asked him to, through those he knows in the SRS, transfer the offer to Vojislav Seselj in The Hague to be tried before our judicial authorities in Belgrade, to condemn him for 10 years, to consider what he has done so far, and to let him go to parole immediately after the trial. Stefanovic conveyed it to Dragan Todorovic, who told him after 10 days that Vojislav Seselj with disgust refused the offer. What legal regulation allows the spokesman Bruno Vekaric to make such offers and trade in this way? If anyone tries to lead this scandalous trade into a guilty negotiation, I remind you that this institute has not yet been established with us. This is an obvious political trade, and there's nothing right here. This is another in a series of confirmations that the indictment against Vojislav Seselj was written by his political opponents in Belgrade, because Vojislav Seselj for them was an irrevocable distraction on the political scene, which today represents. The indictment was then agreed at the route Djindjic – Carla del Ponte. Vekaric's offer is another proof that the prosecution does not know how to get out of an extremely unfortunate situation, as it did nothing to support the indictment and this offer was in the context of looking for a way out. When the offer was rejected, the prosecution was only left to force Vojislav Seselj to strike again with hunger, so that, in violation of his unimpeached right, he would impose a defender. The outcome of the hunger strike would be tragic, and that's exactly what his political opponents want today. That is why Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic are working so hard to help the prosecutor's office and the tribunal and to give the most brutal lies the basis for the removal of any kind of communication, all visits, and family and associates, and to impose a defender on him. Thanks to them, Seselj's confidential communication with the team that's helping his defense has been lifted. Vukic and Nikolic are openly offering, I end up, not only from Belgrade to be witnesses of the prosecution, because they already are, but also to go and testify before the tribunal. They're ordering comments from their friends journalists suggesting to the D.A. that they would like to testify against Seselj. Destroy Seselj at all costs and in any way, that is the goal of these morbid inventions we have been listening to lately, whose creator is Alexander Vukic, who has always shown a special tendency to morbid things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8398	The word is from MP Dejan Mirovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word out on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8399	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from an article. 225 and 226, as well as pursuant to Article 226. 103rd and 104th, which prescribes that the speaker should speak about the agenda. For two months now, we have been present at the abuse of the congregation speaker and the congregation itself, as a legislative body. There's no clear reason for that. Instead of discussing the laws and the amendments, in which great effort has been made, we are here attending political marketing and advertising as if there were no limits. One political group that didn't even participate in the elections exhibits its megalomanic programme, whose ideal, according to them, is the American political system and thinks it should exist with us. Therefore, they advocate the existence of only two parties that differ in nothing significant. Otherwise, from this political farce, there is always an oligarch who is stronger than the state. It's probably the first candidate we have Mr. Miskovic and his friends. Also, we will have to listen to pathetic offers to support the minority government and that is all reportedly due to co-operation with Russia. If so, the next question arises – why did the leader of the group at the time he was headed by the SRS in January 2008, contrary to all the rules of the diplomatic protocol, not answer an official invitation from the Federation Council of Moscow for 15 days? This is because he and his current deputy, as a person of global importance, were very offended that Vladimir Putin had sent a protocol card for Tadic's birthday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8400	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8401	When you say that Alexander Vukic and I are offering to testify against Vojislav Seselj, give me only one piece of evidence, only one article you call upon, Mrs. Italian, which says that Alexander Vukic and I will testify against Vojislav Seselj. So it's not worth what I tell you in front of all the TV cameras - that I'd rather kill myself than testify against Vojislav Seselj. You're driving your story. I totally understand that. And to you, young Mr. Mirovic, whom I also greatly appreciate, and you are witness to my going to Russia, how are you not ashamed? Was Dragan Todorovic with me in the delegation when we were received by Mr. Medvedev? Who did I refuse to accept? But, of course, if Tadic paints with Putin, I can't, as his campaign opponent, go to the factions in Duma, because it would be Tadic's victory. I am the president – the president receives me, and Tomislav Nikolic is an MP, he will be accepted by MPs. No, Mr. Mirovic, if it were the way you wanted it to be, I would have been accepted by the MPs, but it was the way I wanted it to be, so I was received by Mr. Medvedev. Why never, when you come out and say that I refused to call in Russia, say that I was accepted by Medvedev in Russia. I think it was the success of the SRS, that it wasn't the ominous SRS. We were received by a man who became president of Russia after three months; so we talked about it – here, Tadic and Putin as former presidents and Nikolic and Medvedev as future presidents. I accept that you were ordered to lie. I won't even answer many lies. There's water in your ears. But please, when you were involved in something, don't spit on yourself. You and your Russian associates participated in everything. They've been waiting for me at the Federation Council, Anna Filimonova, your good friend and friend. I think she also attended the talks with the president of the Federation Council. How can you say I refused to go to Russia? But some of you from the SRS, let me say, come on, give back the money you owe to the SRS first, so come out here and talk about honesty and morality!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8402	National MP, you must specify a member who is injured when you are looking for a word. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Then, national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, right to replication, based on the direct mention and interpretation of her presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8403	Mr. Nikolic, I don't know why you're getting upset. I ask you, in front of everyone, why isn't the Co-operation Pact signed with Mr. Mironov's party? And you know they offered us that. Just answer me that, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8404	National MP, you must specify a member of the Rules of Procedure when you wish and receive a word on the basis of Article 100(1). The word has a national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, right to replication, Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8405	So, Mr. Nikolic, I have led you in every way possible to try to help the prosecutor's office and the tribunal bring forth the most brutal lies and thus provide a basis for the abolition of any kind of communication, all visits by families and associates, to be imposed on him by the defender. Those morbid inventions, created by Aleksandar Vukic, refer to the fact that a man who is monitored for every move for 24 hours reportedly manages to order liquidations in Serbia. That's quite enough for you to be a witness here from Belgrade, and I've made you offer your journalists' comments, too, to go and testify. Those comments were published in the press, apparently, what you know about some of Seselj's crimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8406	National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8407	So I'm forced to tell you when you're lying - that you're lying. Bring me one piece of any of my statements that might suggest I know something about the alleged crimes of Vojislav Seselj. You're lying, young lady! You won't find that at least I'm insinuating anything I know about Seselj's crimes! That's one thing. And to you, Mr. Mirovic, let me tell you -- you're lying about offering us any co-operation agreement! The deal was prepared for the SPS, and she signed it with Mironov. Here, I accept that she's not lying to Mrs. Filimonova, so she can send you a draft, a proposal, any document that was offered to me there. Dragan Todorovic was with me the whole time. Here, if he wants to lie, he can come out here and tell us if we've been offered. Do you think I could refuse anything in Russia when my attitude towards Russia was such that there was no party we would not cooperate with in Russia. I was the first to break up co-operation with only one political party in Russia, because it is a shame that you co-operate with an eight-percent party, while others are taking over the winning parties. And what would I have against the party Putin, what about Zjuganov, what about Žirinski? Everyone's good to me. Everyone's voting in Duma for Serbia. I'm only interested in the relationship of Russian political parties to Serbia, I'm not interested in any private relationship, I don't have a private relationship with them. So when you lie, you lie about what I can't document. Or, at least, when you claim that the truth is something you say, bring the document. What you're doing from the Assembly's pay phone, you know what you're doing. You are spreading some hatred towards me and Alexander Vukic in Serbia, that we are now taking part in the destruction of Vojislav Seselj. Don't you destroy it anymore? Well, didn't this young gentleman, who lost his election at the foothold of Vojislav Seselj, destroy him no more?- I'm sorry. Well, this lady, who held the elections in Vranjska Banja, didn't enter the censorship, didn't she destroy it anymore?- I'm sorry. His life is politics, not what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8408	National MP, you are required to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mirovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8409	Mr. Nikolic, I'll bring an official call from January 14, 2008, and you bring your answer. I claim, under full responsibility, that he does not exist. So not that you didn't want to answer or didn't know, but it just doesn't exist. On the other hand, this previous statement of yours shows that you are a megalomaniac. You underestimate one party, you say – eight percent won in the Russian Federation. Do you know how many voices that is? That's eight million, eight million!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8410	People's MP, you didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured either. You can't throw at any of the members of the Rules of Procedure. Please, when asking for a word, on the basis of Rule 100, the Rules of Procedure apply to everyone, I said the same thing to MP Dejan Mirovic, and the MP threw out Article 104, and therefore I say to him that he cannot throw away which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured, because if he wants to talk about injury to the procedure, the assumption is that he knows what the procedure is hurt. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8411	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because the MPs of the SRS, elected on the list of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, are proud of our president, as well as of the entire patriotic Serbia. Sometimes President Seselj would say that I exaggerate when I say that the public of Serbia is fascinated by what he is doing, especially in the past few days and in this testimony by Mr Stefanovic, however, it is indeed so. There is no day on my journey from Kragujevac to the National Assembly, when I walk any street of my city or Belgrade without being stopped by the bright faces of all age structures. What is a special incentive for me and what is the hope for Serbia and the guarantee that next year Dr. Seselj will come into free Serbia is the fact that there are more and more young people who react so, as some analysts call 'new Serbian youth', who say – Seselj is the emperor, he is someone we admire and someone we watch until two hours after midnight, we follow and absorb every word. Because Dr. Vojislav Seselj's life is the ideology of Serbian nationalism. No additional election, no vote in one or another polling post, can affect the fact that its ideology will be eternal for Serbia and that it has already left an indelible mark on the history of our people and on the future of every child born here. And that's why Dr Vojislav Seselj in the first days of that failed coup, I have to remind you of that, fellow MPs, the whole public has told me – indeed, what a shame it is, which is in the hands of foreign intelligence services, thinking of Nikolic, and who has been a mercenary of domestic tycoons, has been my associate for so many years. I am ashamed, and as one doctor and his wife told me at the Kragujeva market last Saturday, I met people twice in my life and I didn't know that they had any sympathy for Serbian radicals – Natasha, as we say locally, what Tomislav, the roar and Kragujevac and us do! It's not me, it's not Serbian radicals, it's not Dr. Seselj, but it certainly is itself and nothing and no one can wash it out of that mess and shame. The ideology of Serbian nationalism is my life, the life of every honest man and the life of Vojislav Seselj. He, betraying this ideology, betrayed not only himself, but all those who will remember him and will remain recorded as a man who has lied, who is perverse and who is a mercenary, who is a traitor and someone who will remain a disgrace and shame and after us, in twenty-thirty years, when other people sit here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8412	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8413	You can't tell me anything new about Vojislav Seselj, I can sign what you're saying right now, just don't take cover behind Vojislav Seselj, do it yourself. You won't achieve anything in politics if you go out for a pay phone and say Seselj is a Serb nationalist, a Serbian hero, a hero, that the people love him. That's true, but for a time, that people also shed love on the SRS. Now I don't see the love of the people to the SRS, and the love of Vojislav Seselj remains. And what Vojislav Seselj thinks of me, it says in an SRS statement when we parted. There are two sentences dictated by Vojislav Seselj, who you voted on: "The RS regretfully notes that Tomislav Nikolic resigned from all functions in the party. The SRS expressed its gratitude to Tomislav Nikolic for everything he did for the SRS. " (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8414	National MP, you must specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8415	I have the right to a replica, Mrs. Chomic. Since we are the image of democracy, as a party, starting with our president, through us who are members of the most senior leadership, the presidential college I belong to, and with us democratically voting on everything, we are making important decisions and we have returned, thank God, to collective decision-making. Because while this individual has just presided over the Presidential College, which has not been held since March this year, or when he is, when we ask serious questions, such as co-operation with Russian Federation and Mr Mironov's parties, we are told jokes, we get kicked out, like this one here, left or right, and then – where who was who, what's the joke, Pera told me, Mike and there's no serious policy here. Serious policy in the SRS is run by people who are associates of Dr Vojislav Seselj and these are two completely unique things, the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj. The problem is in the head of those who wanted to separate Dr. Vojislav Seselj and the SRS, and for what? Well, to take over the SRS. Now for the sake of the Serbian public and you who have listened to this, since such democracy is in our party and in that body that collectively decides, such as the Presidential College, I give up publicly, as I did that Saturday morning personally, that part of the statement, that I regret to say and not to thank you. No, I was waiting for the day, and I knew Monday would be the day that this man would show up, with already prepared things for the kidnapping and mandate, and for the coup in the SRS. I'm happy to hear that 78 members of the Central Homeland Administration have thrown this person out of the U.S.S.S. as a suitcase.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8416	Ambassador Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8417	The Presidential College of the SRS is the auxiliary body of the party's president. He serves to help the president lead the party and only when he needs to determine his own decision, he puts it to the vote. Since when does the party president put the decision to the vote with the associates he chose? He chooses his associates, he chooses his decisions! I'm interested in something else. Why did the party lift the post of vice president? That's what we were most proud of. We said it was the only party in which the congress was elected by the vice president and the president couldn't replace him. Looks like you're no longer worthy of being vice president of the party. There is no one, in whom Vojislav Seselj would have confidence, that he could run the party on his own, while Vojislav Seselj was prevented. Now you're some kind of college leadership. That's how it was in Cardell's day, so none of it ever happened. The party is known by the president. There's no collegiate leadership in the party. In the party, the President decides. For four years, he's been ruling the party, showing results, and Congress is choosing him again or selecting another candidate. And now you're a presidential college, now you're voting on what the party needs to do. While I was usurping and putting my foot in the aisle and telling jokes, the party made progress in the election. While I was inconclusive in politics in the SRS, the party reached an unimaginable million and four-five hundred thousand votes. You're seriously involved in politics now, and now you're all making your own decisions, so don't go into censorship. What's serious about that? What's politics about? Are you happy that we parted? You're not! Am I happy? Neither did I! It's just that I don't insult you with a single word, and you're following orders from The Hague to insult me, to insult my family, to say that I'm immoral. It's a warrant from The Hague, none of you would say that. And this squirrel would never have hit the bench for Tomislav Nikolic if it hadn't told her Vojislav Seselj. Don't tell me there's no way to say what people in The Hague need to know. So how did he threaten to kill Alexander Stefanovic if it's impossible to get out of The Hague? It's possible. So you focus on politics, three days ago I commended you, and today you are the losers again. You're in politics. I can't expect one child to fall apart so quickly when I leave him. I expect you to continue to be a strong force, and you who have never done anything for the party, and you who have done much, especially you who have done nothing, do not learn from those who have ever done much, and are now completely destroying the party. What's your wish? To disappear the SRS? Then how will you welcome Vojislav Seselj? To start at zero. I know what it's like to move from zero, even though I'm here, so every day I run, how's he gonna do it? And with you to start at zero? In Vranjska Banja to go with you? To the Bookkeeper to go with you? (All the time the speech of Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic the MPs of the SRS are banging into the benches. [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8418	Replication rights, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, based on Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8419	You see, Mrs. Comic, I have to report back to the replica, since there's someone here who spends 17, 18 years, has a fundamental ignorance of the statutes of the party whose deputy president was, and then he says that the presidential college is an auxiliary body, that the president has appointed him himself. At the proposal of the party president, it is done by the Central Country Administration. I would like to congratulate this opportunity on my newly elected colleagues, members of the Presidential College, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, Miss Elena Christmas-Talian, who has also been elected as our Secretary-General, Mr Dejan Mirovic and all those who, first of all, are loyal to the idea and ideology of the SRS in the past two months with their sacrifice, as well as Mr Zoran Krasic, who is one of the founders of our party and who has been elected vice-president of the Central Country Administration, showed that they will ultimately defend not only Serbian nationalism, but what they themselves are. We now identify ourselves and see that here the problem is only in one person, in the head and in the consciousness of a man who did not want to work in such a way anymore, because he is ignorant, uneducated, without knowledge and education, as Vuk Draskovic called him in that famous article in the daily newspaper "Today", someone I am free to say and say, back in five or ten years, he did not read a single book. Then what are we talking about? It's about how we deal with politics. Politics is done by people who have ideologies. What you heard here is pure phraseology, empty words, someone who imagined it was big, someone who said he was the one who got this or that, and in fact he took, stole the mandates of the SRS, robbed the SRS, owed 58 million dinars, and that's why he's now under litigation in front of the court, where Mr. Zoran Krasic is in charge. Because this one earlier from the pay phone, which had been put in his pocket a lot, and this one of his deputies, who would be, like in the DS, 'a killer', I mean Alexander Vukic, who stole the party, put in their pockets for himself and their families, and brought Serbia's opposition political scene to deal with the issue backwards for two months. And that was the goal, first of all, of Tadic, Manter, Wardsworth, of hitting a strong SRS that made it impossible for the opposition to put pressure on and bring down such a regime, which sells Kosovo and Metohija, which brings Serbian citizens to the brink of poverty and poverty. In fact, what brings them here when they're below the poverty limit of over 800,000 children in our country, over a million of our citizens! That's what it's all about, how with a story that has nothing to do with it and what's actually the story of some bar promoter with his leg thrown out, it's distracting the public, and it's that he and Vukic are directly co-workers of the Hague tribunal, that they're direct associates of foreign intelligence services, that they've kidnapped, robbed and that you here from DS, with stolen mandates, hold them as a reserve for the Socialist Party, for the G17 or as soon as you need them. We will stamp it, as we have succeeded in the past two months, explaining to the citizens of Serbia from this place, and it is the only place, the assembly speaker, to say a lot of things they didn't know and didn't know. We're proud of what our president and every member of the SRS does, every one who knows we've never betrayed them, and we're not going to, because by betraying that idea, we're betraying ourselves, we're honoring ourselves, we're never going to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8420	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8421	Article 226. I ask the Rules of Procedure once again and ask the decadent answer – what about the budget? Where's the budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8422	People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8423	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, don't worry about the results of the SRS! It's a shame that you say you brought the results the SRS won. Which raises you so much, and you underestimate the enormous sacrifice that Vojislav Seselj brings to The Hague, defending the interests of the Serb people. That's what the SRS brings votes all the time. It is better for you to think about how you will now fulfill everything you have promised Mr. Manter, British Ambassador Wardsworth and all those thanks to whom you have received this incredible logistics support, and media and support of the regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8424	National MP Milos Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8425	I'm reporting under Rule 226 and I'm asking the Prime Minister for a notice -- what about the budget, when are we going to get it here in the procedure? We don't know when it's gonna be next. At the last session, we find out, there was a lot of conflict between individual ministers. As we have heard and read from the media, conflicting opinions and views on budget funds have been issued by Minister Sutanovac, Mr Jeremic, Minister Dinkic, and this is causing a disturbance among Serbian citizens, whether we will even get the budget here in the process. Another thing that is much more disturbing for all Serbian citizens, which is today the published interview by Minister Milosavljevic in "News", where he says the citizens will not be naked and barefoot. The Prime Minister said the other day that we wouldn't be hungry. Is it for you the way to Europe, which is full of mouths, that very story of yours and the statements of the Minister – we will not be naked and barefoot, we will be hungry?- I'm sorry. Will we finally be able to get that budget here, to plead on it, to try to improve it with our amendments, as we did with the budget rebalance. We also showed you that this budget is, above all, a consumer, that there is no social component, that many citizens live on the edge of existence, and that is something that worries all citizens. We want a budget in the Serbian Parliament! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8426	The 13th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sreto Peric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8427	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where the government plays two so one, two amendments accept and one doesn't accept. I join Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic's appeal, and I call on the citizens of Serbia to, instead of following some political shows or reading the daily press, of course they should, follow the direct transmission of the National Assembly's session. What good would that be for? In this place you can hear arguments and counterarguments. I am sorry, and it is not much, that MP Srdjan Mikovic comes out, because he had the opportunity, and it can only be in this place, it can't be in political shows, on televisions with national frequencies, because, usually, there, the editor-in-chief and the other editors, or others, call only those who answer them – you saw Srdjan Mikovic come out here and disputed the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Buha. That's what we can do to your amendments. We are taking part in the amendments in order to correct the text of the bill and therefore I urge the citizens of Serbia to follow the meetings of the National Assembly, because it is the only place where we can conduct a public debate in a good way. For us, a set of judicial laws is very important and we have approached him with serious responsibility and with a very high professional analysis, but it is certainly important and the budget, which is particularly insisted on by another parliamentary group, however, I do not know whether we should insist so much. There is not one country in the world that taxes its citizens in a parafiscal way. And how does that feel? You know, it is likely, that the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH have a currency, a conversion mark, and it is always the same relationship between the conversion mark and the euro. That's not the situation with us. How does this state, in a parafiscal way, tax its citizens? In that way, she introduced the so-called. swimming course! So, when were the cheapest foreign exchanges, or the euro? It was the moment when a large number of our citizens living in the diaspora came and was forced to sell it. What's going on now? Now the National Bank is exporting that money and selling it. And I can tell you exactly the time when the rate will fall again, and those funds will pay for pensions and other expenses. And what leads to the rapid leap of the euro course, and the drop of the dinar – leads to inflation! Then what have we got? Then we have the consequence of increasing the base on which VAT is calculated and paid. There, in a transparent way, it was explained how the state parafiscalally drags its hands into the pocket of its citizens. It will certainly do so with the budget, but then the government and the heads of parliament, those who were on TV last night, will say that MPs are obstructing Parliament's work. When we discuss the budget in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then we will have a number of amendments, but then we will be told that we have to adopt it as soon as possible, that there are established legal deadlines there and that we are being told that we are obstructing. Actually, it's not that. Under the deadlines set out in the Memorandum of Budgeting, the government's obligation was to submit a draft budget to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 1 November. Is he here yet? He didn't make it! The SRS will fight daily to solve its citizens' problems, i.e. Serbian citizens, and to propose solutions to both social and economic problems, while this government is not in a situation, because they are very concerned with themselves and that is why the draft budget has not reached the National Assembly. Besides this, I must say that MP Mirko Munjic has submitted an amendment to Article 15 of this Law on the High Council of the judiciary, where the permanent working bodies of this council are regulated. Article 13. The bill said what the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is to, among other things, elect and dismiss judges, and choose those judges who have already performed judicial functions, and propose to the National Assembly those judges to be elected for the first time as judges. The high council of the judiciary also determines the number of judges and judges of the jury for each court. And what's very interesting is this article 13. The bill provides for the High Judicial Council to report on its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once a year. Well, we can't wait to get through, at least, a year to see if that's the situation, since we've never adopted a final bill since 2000, so I don't think this is going to be on the agenda either. This Article 15, in order to carry out all that is in the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary, shall organise three permanent working bodies, namely: the Commission for the Evaluation and Labour of Judges, the Commission for Presentations and the Election Commission and the Disciplinary Authorities. In Article 2, Mr. Mirko Munjic, the MP of the SRS, suggested that the word "actual" be replaced by the word "businesser", which reads "The composition and manner of the body's work as set out in Article 1 is governed by the act of the Council, in accordance with the law. "So, Mirko Munjic suggested that instead of the word "actoma", the word "businessman" stands, and also to say, since we have submitted the amendment to Article 16, which provides for the occasional working bodies of that council, that their composition and mode of work, jurisdiction, is closer to the rules of procedure, while, for permanent working bodies, you say that the composition and way of work is arranged by some other act. Since Mr Tomislav Nikolic is here, I will only appeal to him once in a sentence. He can attack all the MPs, he can attack the citizens of Serbia, but I would ask him, he knows a lot more about it than I do, that when it comes to the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, he is neither private nor officially what he was, because he does it often. You also mention where you first bathed in a private pool and what else you were doing. Regarding your relationship with the president of the SRS - there is no water and there is no detergent who will be able to conscience, in that regard, to wash you off! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8428	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is being advertised by the MP, Dr Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8429	Advertising breach of the provisions of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has spoken falsely about me for this speaker. Mr. Nikolic, you are constantly pleading for honor, honesty, truth and justice, so I ask you, is it moral when you tell a lie about a man, when you slander a man, is it honorable when a man is not alive, you say he's a mob prime minister?- I'm sorry. This first is immoral, this second one is vanity, and on truth and justice we can elaborate over and over, but I only have three minutes. Mr. Nikolic, never by one gesture, by engagement, by arrangement, by word, by part, did I do anything at the time when I was minister of justice for Vojislav Seselj to be found in The Hague tribunal. Never, nothing! I've been listening to what some people say about you for days, but I'm not saying it's true. No, I can only say what I have arguments and evidence for. You're taking for granted something he said for me. Never, during my time as minister of justice, at government meetings, government colleges, DOS presidency, the UN presidency, personal or direct contacts, Zoran Djindjic mentioned that it was necessary to organise Vojislav Seselj to go to The Hague. I'm telling you my experience. That's what a man who doesn't know where Schiller is, who's never seen anyone from the Zemun clan, who's never seen the Legion, or the Jovic, or Frankie, or anyone. Carla del Ponte, who, by the nature of the work I've done, I've never met with other associates seven or eight times before, never mentioned the name Vojislav Seselj. So, Mr. Nikolic, I never made any arrangements of that kind. The public knows my position and my attitude towards The Hague tribunal. After all, as far as the truth is concerned, so much God has helped me! You go out and say the same thing compared to what you said about me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8430	Thank you. Advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8431	Mr Batić, without any desire to offend you, I missed you for three or four days after the testimony of Alexander Stefanovic, when he was magnificent as a great Serbian hero and a moral man, and I said there was something wrong, or he lied when he was making statements or lying in The Hague, and that I couldn't for such a man who was so charged with Vojislav Seselj's bill to say he was moral. Perhaps you haven't watched the trial, Aleksandar Stefanovic said that you and Mr. Zoran Djindjic urged him to testify against it. Even said -- Vladan Batic, then justice minister, in Zoran Djindjic's cabinet, they urged me, I couldn't resist the pressure, I didn't know what I was doing, my head got confused, so he made a statement in 2003, so in 2004, so in 2005, 2006, everything got wrong with him. So, take, please, the transcript, that I do not convince you, or the MPs of the SRS, read the part concerning you, come out and tell the speaker if you interpreted it as I did, that Alexander Stefanovic said that you influenced him to testify against Vojislav Seselj. Of course, you have the right to tell the truth here, and I will always trust you before Alexander Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8432	Thank you. You didn't call for a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8433	Article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8434	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8435	Mr. Nikolic, I haven't analyzed what Aleksandar Stefanovic said, which I don't care about. You have slandered me here, claiming it is true what Aleksandar Stefanovic said. Do I have to accept everything I've been hearing about you for days? That's the problem. I'm not looking at the transmissions. I'm telling you what's true. I'm not going to analyze that statement. I don't do any fair performances or performances, but if you guys take things for granted, well, what do you think if I kept repeating what I've been hearing about you for days? I'll never do that. I don't know how you need something like that. Whether I have slandered or offended you, by asking you to, thinking that immorality and immorality are something backward and not advanced, if you are the president of the Progressive Party and if you have changed not only hair but also temper, come out here and say – Zoran Djindjic, the late prime minister, that's what every Orthodox and every Christian would say, is not a mob prime minister, it was, some campaign of my previous party. If you don't, then it means that you're still thinking about it and then don't tell us about any new values, new morals, etc. What the man was saying, if Djindjic persuaded him in 2002, that is, in 2003, allegedly the first statement, so the indictment was filed before that, so the tribunal did not have a witness witness who has now testified. And then what he said about Seselj in 2006 and 2007. At the time Djindjic was dead, three or four years, but I won't do it. I don't want to get into it, and then don't bring me into it for no reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8436	Thank you. For a word, please report to the Rules of Procedure Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8437	Mr. Batic, I'm sorry if you misunderstood me, I just said they should beat you because Alexander Stefanovic told you that you were pushing him. Now I apologize to you, I trust you more than Alexander Stefanovic, and for Zoran Djindjic, he was hanging out with mobsters.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8438	On the amendment, this is Mr. Zoran Krasic. The remaining time is seven minutes, which I think is quite enough, will still honor us, probably.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8439	You, as the current chairman, are not authorized to interpret how much is enough. Finally, let's fight to talk a little bit about the law at the request of my DS fans and three SPO fingers, we'll talk about an amendment to the bill, we won't talk about zoom, we won't talk about swearing in churches, etc. To define the problem of this concept of law and this article, where Mr Mirko Munjic had to submit the amendment, it is Article 15(2). Mr. Munjic tried to amend the name of the act to be adopted by the Council. He was on his way, just to follow the concept of the legislator, to say that the act should be the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I must immediately tell you that, some logic that is present in this concept of law is the same which is present at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. So, besides the Constitution that regulates, in addition to the Constitutional Court Act, the highest act adopted by the Constitutional Court is the Rules of Procedure, which regulates certain issues of the internal organisation and the work of something called the State Authority. But the situation here is completely different and it is wrong to make any analogy with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. What's she wrong about? If you feel that the High Consciousness of the judiciary should also have a vice president, then it must be settled by this law, not given to the Rules of Procedure as you have done in one of the previous members of the bill, I will tell you which member it is, that is Article 7(3). This is where you regulate the status of deputy president. You can't have a spare function or a replacement function of something that's a constitutional category to draw from a sublegal act, which is a Rules of Procedure. If you felt there should be a deputy president of the High Council of the Judiciary, then you had to install those provisions in this law on the High Council of the judiciary, how to choose, what its functions are, what it should do, etc. I need to draw your attention to one more thing. The vice president, and you have to learn a little bit, since the snake he burns, he's also afraid of the lizard, and we had some deputy president. However, the deputy president was authorised to do only what was defined as his job in the general act. He generally replaces the president, but he can't do those jobs he couldn't even do. Here, let me explain this to you. There is an SRS president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. In order for the SRS to be in charge, to take a loan, it is not enough for the president to leave and sign the contract, but for the highest authority, which is the Central Country Authority, to decide on a credit debt. A contract is signed on the basis of that decision. On the basis of that contract, the bonds and contractual powers shall be issued. You were listening to this "zumbula" that was pretending to be something. He, as vice president, had the statutes of prerogatives with us. It's not hard to understand. The president and vice president were unable to lend credit to the SRS without a decision from the Central Country Authority. That's what I'm telling you because of the High Council of Justice, so you can understand the status of president. His status is defined by the Constitution. The vice president does not foresee the Constitution. What can define it? It's just the High Council Act, not that you're giving a decree here in the law, and you're saying it's going to be regulated by the Rules of Procedure. That's where you made a big mistake. Why? Because he replaces the President of the High Council of the Judiciary and cannot draw his powers on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure define the way in which sessions, modes of work and organizations are called, probably these working bodies, whether permanent or ad hoc, but you are not consistent with working bodies either. You give the working bodies jurisdiction to decide something. It's forbidden. He can't! The Constitution knows he's the only one who has jurisdiction over the Supreme Judiciary Council. That's the problem. There's a big mistake in concept, in understanding. If this concept goes, you'll be roasted, just as it roasted us. You have one good example, the church doesn't apply, the church oath doesn't apply, the godmother doesn't apply, nothing's true! He's the most beautiful, the smartest, he can salt anyone's brains out. It's always someone else's fault. In order for this not to happen in the state, we suggest that you regulate the status of Deputy President of the High Council of the judiciary by this law. It's necessary. I don't want to get into a termological difference, whether it's a deputy or vice president. I accept your concept – Deputy Chairman of the High Council of the Judiciary. But he can't statusally be defined by the Rules of Procedure. He must be prescribed by law, for the law of the steps is lower under the Constitution. The Rules of Procedure define some other things, organizations of work. Now that I've taken my word, I have to draw your attention to the provisions of this law, I haven't been present, I apologize, where you taxfully stated what the High Council of the Judiciary is in charge of. I get the impression, I don't want to go any further, that you have exceeded those powers that exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 154. Why am I telling you this? I've gotten the impression, based on these paragraphs, with powers, that you treat the High Council of the Judiciary as an in-coherent management body of the entire judiciary. (President: Time.) Mr. Novakovic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8440	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 16 and Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8441	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed an amendment to Article 16. Article 16 is short, so I would read it: "For the sake of considering certain issues in its jurisdiction, the Council can educate the occasional working bodies. Education, composition and way of working part-time working bodies is closer to the Rules of Procedure." My amendment is based on the fact that this member in the set is deleted, for the following reason – I find it unjust to form occasional working bodies alongside permanent working bodies, which are defined by Article 15, which are: The Election Commission, the Commission that values the work of judges and disciplinary authorities. It's like we don't know what to do, so, come on, let's form a commission to put the problem aside. The education of the occasional working bodies will cost. They have to educate the commissions, get people involved, and they have to spend their resources on the budget. The government has not accepted this amendment. The explanation of the Government reads: ''Because certain issues can arise in the work of the Council for which consideration is required to educate the working body, it is necessary to create a legal possibility that the Council can educate the occasional working bodies. Therefore, for the smooth functioning of the Council, it is necessary that, in addition to permanent working bodies, which are taxed in Article 15. Bills of laws are educated and occasional working bodies. ''In view of the fact that the High Council of the Judiciary, which is required under the Constitution to ensure the independence and independence of judges and judges, has great powers, I shall state some of these powers, and there are many, elected and resolved by the judges, propose to the National Assembly of Judges to elect judges during the first election of the jury office, appoint the Judges of the jury, decide on the transfer and referral of objections and remote judges, decide on the procedure of evaluation of the work of the Judges and President of the Court, determines the number of judges and judges in each court, decide on questions of the immunity of judges and members of the Council – how to be independent when the election of members of the High Council is related to the Assembly, i.e. the Assembly majority?'- I'm sorry. The President of the Council, acting as President of the Supreme Cassation Court, is elected by the Assembly. He is a member of the office of justice minister and is elected by the Assembly. For all of this, the majority of the congregation is needed, and that is the political majority. The chairman of the Justice Committee is also elected by the Assembly. Judges choose each other, six of them, however, come to the Assembly to verify it by the Assembly. That's right with the lawyer's representative. That's how it is with a representative from the professor's office. I would refer briefly to one topic, which is the judge's evaluation. This is not worked out in this law, nor is it precisely defined, and it will be one good basis and a good basis for the lustration of judges through it. The Serbian Radical Party is against the lustration of judges because, according to the constitution, the judicial function is permanent. So it's about the fates of the people, the fates of the judges, and most of them will be out of a job. We talked about courts and judges these days. There are great courts, there are small courts. Small courts are mostly in the province, but largely small courts are done in Serbia and there are high-quality judges. It's also about the number of cases. We shouldn't just tie ourselves up that the judge's performance criterion is the number of cases. It has been mentioned that in large courts, judges get a hundred cases, and in a small place, in a small court, they only get five cases. It is not said that in a small court judges do other problems, while in a large court the judge specializes in one area. Therefore, the judge who works on one issue, he is an expert and his work is better quality, his judgments will be more favourable, therefore, his coefficient and the character of the work will be better assessed. It should be brought together and tied together, so that the work and the judges who work several different cases should be properly evaluated. It does not matter the formal position of this law, it is very important whether these criteria will be able to cover all judges and whether all judges will be ranked as well, because of these facts. Dear MPs, this is how you do the lustration of judges. The Serbian Radical Party is against the lustration of courts and judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8442	Thank you. The amendment is subject to Mr Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8443	We'll go faster, Nikola, don't worry! Mr Nikolic has submitted an amendment to Article 16 and he is asking that this member and the title above the member be deleted, because this really does not lead to anything, such a species, in principle provisions go to "slight intestines" completely unnecessary. Of course, he used a good example from practice, as Churchill did, so when he doesn't want to regulate something, he makes a commission, so the committee ambushs, ambushs, ambushs, ambushs, and never solves that problem. But it's nothing new. I still have to go back to this wrong concept of working bodies within the High Council of the Judiciary. But I also have to hang something called the jurisdiction of the High Council of the Judiciary. You see, in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 154, it is prescribed, among other things, that the High Council of the judiciary "participates in the procedure for the termination of the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court". So he's just taking part in the process. The constitution did not want to define what kind of participation it was. That participation can be—and counseling is given, and an opinion is given, the procedure is initiated, the procedure is initiated. So, the word "participation" may have quite a broad interpretation, but it's important not to rely on any concrete act, so there's no decision. I have to, for the sake of the viewers, make one connection, so they don't say there's now a discussion about the legal lexicon. Look, there's a big error in everyday work with us. One is the decision, and the other is the decision, the third is the determination, and the fourth is the constitution, one is the constructive character, the other is the declarative character of something. How does it happen here with us to determine the end of the term of office? On the basis of a report by the Administrative Committee, which is divided by MPs, independently of the agenda, the National Assembly president reads two sentences. First sentence - you have received a report from the Administrative Board, where it is concluded that the conditions laid down in that and that Law on selecting Members of Parliament have been met, for the termination of the term of office of the Members of Parliament. The second sentence read by the president of the National Assembly - I realize that he has suspended the term of office. Over. There's no voting. Why isn't there a vote? On who the MP decides the people, but the electoral list, consent, signatures, etc., it only proves that the provisions of the law are respected. So we don't vote. Because if we were to vote, then we wouldn't need elections, then we'd be French radio television, we'd hire our own, we'd shut down, there'd be no one else. The government is changing and checking in elections every four years, some times before, and legitimacy is obtained from the people, not from whether MPs will raise their hand or not, because then big nonsense appears. If that were the case, for the MP who died, it would not be possible to determine the termination of the term of office if voted, so most would not vote, but he is dead and dead, he cannot bring a man back to life. A similar analogy exists when it comes to the High Court's advice. See what they have written as their jurisdiction, or what they have worked out in Article 13. Proposal for a law in relation to the powers conferred on them by Article 154. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, what, 'participation', if you haven't forgotten, is, you see, 'participating', they said, 'proposing to the National Assembly the election and resolution of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the President of the Court.' He's proposing to the Supreme Cassation Court a candidate for the Constitutional Court judges. Come on, now tell me on the basis of which provisions the High Council of the Judiciary can do anything when it comes to the choice of the Constitutional Court judges. Based on what? You, then form ad hoc working bodies or permanent working bodies that need to do some work for the High Council of the judiciary, and in fact, you have appointed the High Council of the Judiciary as an in-coherent management body of all courts in Serbia. And that's where you overcome all the powers that exist in Article 154. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all powers; and wages and labour results, you have put in disciplinary responsibility, proposal, resolution, installation, and all kinds of things. You have failed to find that visible difference that exists and is listed in Article 154. Never widely interpret the ends of individual views or members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said – as well as other issues in accordance with the law. If you interpret it too widely, then, based on that interpretation, you can even devalue it or end something that has to exist. Do you not see that you, in this law, and in the announcement of the Rules of Procedure, and in the announcement of some act of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, have in fact revised the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the judiciary? So that's what draws the conclusion of the intentions. I can't talk about my intentions as something that's already over. The intentions refer to something in the future. You send these provisions of the Proposal for a Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, the Proposal for a Law on Judges, the Proposal for a Law on Courts, a clearly identifiable message, because there is a common thread through all these laws, that is, the 'intention' to be realized. Something's gonna be up by 2010, something's been going on since 2010. That is why it is necessary for such informal authorities to receive a shell, based on a member of the bill or later on on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and you are doing a fine job there. Well, then you're right to call yourself, you say, please, it's all legal, here's a member of the Rules of Procedure saying that you can do it, here, please, a member of the law says you can do it. We have a situation here that the law will be passed, literally, by its kind of violence. There is always violence when 126 hands pass some law, and there is no dialogue, discussion and persuasion when law is passed. Of course, I probably can't convince you that this isn't good. That's why I'm taking the opportunity to convince the citizens to figure out what dangers lie ahead of them if this goes down like this. But you have to answer once, too, and say, "Martinović is wrong, Sreto Peric is wrong, Verica Radeta is wrong, we will not apply this law, but, when it is passed, he will mean it, all in accordance with the Constitution and the law." You have to explain yourself a little bit, not: Come on, now this is going to go away. Srdjan Milivojevic, from five o'clock in the Assembly, spends four and a half hours on his mobile phone, his ear yellows, reds, reads all the newspapers, goes out, and they are MPs who deliberately advocate that the Assembly be effective, solves life issues of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only the problem is that no one can hear it. They defend themselves with silence. The rule of law has a silence. I don't mind if you read the paper. Please inform yourself that you know your rating, etc. It's all right here. You have exceeded and shown what your intention will be when you are able to apply these laws. However, I hope that the citizens of Serbia will be so aware that it will prevent you from applying these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8444	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what falls into the eyes when the draft law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary is a highly unequal legal terminology. It shows that those who have written the bill do not know much about nomothetics, or the technique of making legal acts. If that were the case, you can see from a large number of members contained in this bill. A short time ago, MP Mirko Munjic submitted an amendment to Article 15. The bill also proposed to replace the word "act" in Article 15(2) with the word "businessman". The government has not accepted this amendment, for my entirely unknown reasons. You see, Madam Minister, the ideal of good legislation, among other things, is to use a uniform, or identical legal terminology, both within one law and between one law with other laws that belong to the same matter. And that's not what you did. It's only enough to read, but carefully read Article 13. Proposal for a law on the High Council of the Judiciary. The last indent of Article 13 reads as follows: "brings the acts provided for by law". And you in Article 15, in which Mr. Mirko Munjic submitted the amendment, say: "The composition and manner of the body's work under Article 1 of this article is governed by the act of the Council, in accordance with the law. "With what law? I suppose this law should regulate which act will be prescribed, inter alia, the composition and manner of the body's work referred to in Article 1(1). So, Article 13 states: "brings the acts provided for by law" and now you, instead of applying that provision in Article 13, continue with some formulations that are extremely abstract and say, "The composition and manner of the body in Article 1 of this Article is governed by the act of the Council. ''The basic question you are asked – what act? The most logical thing would be: the Rules of Procedure on the work of the High Council of the judiciary. There's nothing more logical than to settle it with rules of procedure. Eventually, if you do not wish to arrange it with your rules of procedure, then you must specify which act is at stake, because that is what this preceding indent of Article 13 obliges you to do. So, if you say "bring the acts provided for by law", then you must already be in the next members, who are discussing that provision, to say which acts are at stake. As a matter of fact, if it is a general act, is it an individual act? If it is a general act, whether it is a decision, whether it is a conclusion, a solution or another name of the general legal act. You now, instead of taking advantage of the right and obligation given to you by this last indent of Article 13 and saying: the act is called so and so, you just say - by act. Now, not only are the MPs in the dilemma of what act it is, tomorrow there will be members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the dilemma of what act, in fact, they should bring in and what name they should give him. They cannot be left alone to be, in some way, godfathers to that act, so that they can give him the name they want. That's what you had to do in the bill, because Article 13 obliges you to do it. Furthermore, as far as the amendments I have submitted, Article 18 is rather vague, because it seems, Madam Minister, you are not aware of one fact enough. You want the High Council of the Judiciary to build a state body. And I can understand that. It's obvious that it's a state body and it's a state body that has extremely high powers. On the one hand, it is a state body that, in some ways, represents a roof authority over the entire judiciary, and on the other hand, it is a body that co-operates with the National Assembly in the election of judges. Just read article 13. Proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary and making it clear to you immediately what kind of authority it is. So, if it were an organ that had extremely high powers, it was already seen from the initial indents of Article 13, "picking and dissuasing judges". Look out, it's been the responsibility of the National Assembly until now. You are now transferring it to the High Council of the Judiciary. It is, then, an extremely important state body. You know, when someone has the right to choose a judge who decides whether, in any individual case, in practice, the law is violated or not, that state body that does this means that it has extremely great powers. "It proposes to the National Assembly candidates for the election of judges during the first election of the court office." Likewise. Therefore, the National Assembly can select a judge during the first election of the court office, only from the list of candidates proposed by the High Council of Justice. That also speaks of the fact that it is an extremely important state body. "It proposes to the National Assembly the election and resolution of the President of the Supreme Casualty Court and the President of the Court; it proposes to the Supreme Court of Cassation a candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court; it appoints judges of jurors; it decides to move, refer and object to the distance of judges" etc. The large number of indents referred to in Article 13 make it clear that it is an extremely important state body. However, you missed it, Mrs. Malovic, and it is a mistake that is otherwise repeated in a large number of our laws, to say that it is a state body and to tell about a state body. You just say in Article 2: "The Council is an independent and independent body." In view of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters, the first question and the first question that can be asked to you: what kind of authority is this, is it legislative, executive, judicial, paradic, etc? You have failed to say that, but in any case, it is clear that it is a single institution that has extremely great powers. When you have an institution that has so much authority, as is the High Council of the Judiciary, then the way in which the Rules of Procedure is already indicated whether it is an institution that has great powers or a little less. You've given the High Council of the Judiciary enormous authority. Tomorrow, the High Council of the Judiciary will be able to affect the individual fates of judges, candidates for judges, etc. So you gave the High Council of the Judiciary an extremely great authority and that's a fact. The Rules of Procedure should be governed by the way in which this high council of the judiciary works and acts. Given the great authority the High Council of the Judiciary has, this high advice of the judiciary will in practice make extremely important decisions. It is therefore very important to formulate precisely which act regulates its internal organisation, what the act should look like, as should be called, and, among other things, which is decided by the majority in the High Council of the Judiciary. You have, in practice, dropped the answer to this extremely important question, i.e. you have not introduced it in the bill or you have introduced it indirectly, so we can only indirectly conclude what majority of decisions are made in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It is indisputable that the complete matter of the internal arrangement of the High Council of the judiciary, the way of decision-making and the permanent and occasional working bodies that you have inserted into the bill, all of this must be regulated by the rules of procedure. So it's inadmissible from the noothetic point of view that some of these issues, which essentially fall within the same matter, on the one hand, will be regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and some other questions will be regulated by an act that we don't know what it's called, whether it's general or whether it's individual. It's your first big mistake. The second big mistake was contained in my amendment. You had to state in the Proposal for a Code on the Visco Council of the Judiciary by which the majority of decisions are made in the Visko Council of the judiciary. You didn't do it. I have proposed in the amendment that the Council adopts the Rules of Procedure by a majority of two-thirds of the votes of all members of the High Council of the judiciary. Given the importance of the High Council of the judiciary, given the fact that it makes extremely important decisions, it is nevertheless necessary to give credibility to the decisions it makes and to give credibility to the general acts on the basis of which those decisions are taken. I think it would be appropriate, given the importance of the High Council of the judiciary, that the Rules of Procedure, as an extremely important internal act of the High Council of the judiciary, be brought to the two-thirds majority. You've failed to say at all what kind of rules of procedure you're bringing in. You are in line with why you refuse my amendment: 'In Article 14. The bill stipulates that the Council can hold a session if at least six members of the Council are present, thus achieving efficiency in the work of the Council. Therefore, the adoption of the Rules of Procedure does not require a two-thirds majority, thus only slowing the work of the Council. 'Mrs. Malovic, it is not the essence of this advice that he is working quickly. He is now not some operational technical body that meets daily and decides on some ongoing issues. He must make these decisions in a very thoughtful way, that he studioly approach any question raised on the agenda of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I don't understand your intensities at all that you're speeding up the work of the High Court Council. The departments need to react quickly. The government should react quickly, and in some situations the National Assembly, but the High Council of the judiciary does not need to rush. Any question raised on the agenda must be approached in a very measured way, responsible and must take into account all aspects of the problems discussed. So there's no need to rush. On the other hand, what you have stated in an explanation of why my amendment is rejected, what does it matter when the Council can hold a session with the question with which most of the Rules of Procedure are brought? They can hold a session without making any decisions at that session. So, I suggested that the decision to make the Rules of Procedure can only be made by a two-thirds majority. You didn't specify which majority was required, whether simple, whether absolute, whether two-thirds. I have proposed a two-thirds majority, given the importance of the High Council of the judiciary that you yourself have given him in Article 13. The bill, given the fact that tomorrow the High Council of the judiciary will consider some very important issues. You know, for a man, it's an existential question whether he'll be elected judge or resolved. It's an existential question for a member of his family. And you say you need to speed up the work of the High Court Council. You don't have to! The high council of the judiciary must work slowly, studioically and carefully approach any issue to be put on the agenda. And the decisions he makes, however, must have some weight. In constitutional law, it is known, whenever you want to give weight to a decision, you prescribe a two-thirds majority and you make it clear to everyone, and above all to the members of that body who decides, that his decision has an extremely important meaning, not because of him, but because of the person to whom the decision applies. I find my amendment perfectly appropriate. Because I don't have much time, I just want to say a few more words about article 14. It kind of missed it. You are calling for Article 14 in an explanation of why you reject the amendment that I have submitted, but Article 14 is a very interesting member who speaks of the government's intention to, in some ways, hide from the public what the High Council of the Judiciary is doing. Therefore, in Article 14(1), it is said: 'Sessions of the Council are not public. The Council may decide to work in public session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ''I find it really unclear, Mrs. Malovic, why you prescribe that Council sessions are not public. If the National Assembly is a public session, and there is no more important state authority than the National Assembly, if the public work of the court is, except, exceptionally, in situations which are explicitly prescribed by law, why are you hiding from the public the work of the High Council of the Judiciary? The high council of the judiciary doesn't judge. There will not be any delicate questions from individuals, minors, etc. in front of the High Council of the judiciary. If the work of the National Assembly is public, if the work of the courts is public, why should the High Council of Judges be unpublished? If the High Council of the Judiciary is some roof institution over the complete judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, it would be logical, indeed, that his sessions be public...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8446	Mr. Martinovic, I apologize, that amendment has been accepted and has become an integral part of the law. That's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8447	Mr. Novakovic, I have listened carefully to what they have been saying about this law and the minister and the MPs of the ruling majority, etc. Let me make my point on this bill. Whether it's my opinion valid, whether it has any weight or not, it doesn't matter at all. I'm telling you about another thing, and if you'd listened very carefully to me, you'd actually understand the essence of my exposure. So, I said the government's intensity was to hide from citizens the work of the High Council of Justice. The fact, pointed out by Ms Verica Radeta, that the government has accepted an extremely large number of amendments to the bill says that the bill was written at speed, that no professional associations have been consulted, no legal colleges called upon, among other things, and in the proposal of this law, and then there was a situation to accept a large number of amendments from the MPs. That fact speaks of the fact that the government has unseriously approached this business. I showed you on just one case of unequal legal terminology as much as those who wrote the bill were inserious, sloppy, etc. In doing so, I do not want to say that Mrs Malovic is responsible for this. I don't think she wrote the bill. The ministry’s professional services, which prepared the bill, apparently approached this whole matter in a very superficial way. That was the essence of my amendment and my address to the MPs. Mr. Novakovic, my advice to you, do not worry much about my manner of exposure, but advise the Government a little when proposing laws to the National Assembly to a little consult both opposition parliamentary groups and professional associations, as well as law schools. There are people out there who can help this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8448	Thank you, and I apologize. The 21st amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8449	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament of the amendment submitted to Article 21. New Serbia's parliamentary groups are extremely good. In my opinion, the six-month deadline that is given to create some electoral actions, when it comes to the High Council, is an extremely long one. We asked the amendment to reduce the time limit by three months, for the reason that there is a possibility that when we choose such a tall body, which will have very massive powers in its work, one dualism of functions. So, the procedure takes six months and we have some High Council that decides, and then six months, practically, overlaps with the candidacy for new members. I think, Madam Minister, that deadline is long. It is perfectly reasonable that the deadline should be three months, and then automatically this deadline in the last position of this member should be reduced to 45 days in order, in general, in our legal system when selecting an organ, to reduce the unnecessary delay of six months – we know exactly the conditions, we know exactly who should be chosen, so we know from which lines all of these are chosen. I find it unacceptable that a process should be so long. It would have been extremely comprehensive if you had accepted this amendment. I think he's well-intentioned, and I think he'd do a lot of things to fix the law. And just the explanation that you've given why this amendment is not accepted is unacceptable. Do we want to have something that is effective in our legal system, something that works or something that's on such a long stick – some six-month preparations to change something? I absolutely believe this New Serbia amendment should be accepted. I really don't understand what the six-month preparations are for a high-level judiciary council. In my opinion, it's such a long time, it's too high to be dating in a state of law so long. Of course, as I said before, then there would be room for this deadline to be reduced to 45 days. I think that we would absolutely improve efficiency, we would show that the High Council of the Judiciary works well, that we know what we want. Like this, it's on another stick. Imagine, we'll have a situation where a council of the judiciary decides for a period of six months, and then, when the mandate of the council practically expires, some other candidates will slowly appear. The question is, how will some outgoing advice work in those six months? I think it's an extremely long period, preparing new candidates, and they're still deciding. I think that during that six-month period, the basic function of this council will be lost. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8450	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8451	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to Article 21 whose title is – candidateing and proposing. A very important moment, something the court's public expected, is the way members of the High Council of Judges will be elected. With this proposal, the law on the High Council of the judiciary introduces a choice within which all judges will, in fact, have the right to vote. It's something that's a good step and that can certainly lead to what we all wanted when the idea started to form one body, which will have the right power in the judiciary, which will be elected by the judges. So, since 2001, from the High Council of Justice, here we now come to the opportunity that judges who will be members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be elected by all judges. This is something that should represent the legitimacy of the exercise of power by the High Council of the judiciary, which, undeniably, after constitutional changes and after these solutions that we have in this draft law, has significant competences concerning policymaking in the field of justice. I'm talking about the part about the judiciary here. The D.A.'s office has these responsibilities when it comes to prosecutorial functions. I would like to refer to the previous amendment that I consider to be very good, because the fact that it will be implemented by law is a very detailed procedure of choice, in which all judges will participate, says that in some way, no matter how it may sound to judges and even to workers in the judiciary at all, it is a kind of campaign. This law provides for this to take six months, as candidates for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will surely want to receive support from all judges, starting with the basic court, senior courts, the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Cassation Court. It is absolutely certain that candidates will want to be able to present themselves to judges of all Serbia's courts, and the fact that this should take six months to further bring tension to the judiciary, take too long and certainly does not contribute to the basic function of judges, which consists in making decisions, judgments and should not be prevented by such a long campaign, I would like to point out here. What is the 'racio' of this amendment is the fact that constitutional changes are also a good part of the jurisdiction that had this high home, when it comes to the choice and resolution of the holder of judicial functions, is now being removed from the National Assembly. It primarily refers to the first choice of judges and prosecutors, but also to the resolutions of judicial officials. This is no longer the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and these powers are now being given to the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors. We also have a fact, which is defined by this law in Article 38, that the National Assembly chooses members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the proposal of authorised promoters. Then the question arises – why is the National Assembly, despite being deprived of powers relating to the election and resolution of judges, in fact, in a permanent capacity of judges, taking away that authority to decide to initiate the procedure for proposing candidates? Why should the President of the National Assembly not have that power, that possibility, when the National Assembly has already decided on when, from the very beginning, it has been participating in the process of electing members of the High Council of the Judiciary? We here point out this, our MP group, for one more reason, because the witnesses, in this particular session, are a significant reduction in the role of the National Assembly, the role it played not only in the domain of the judiciary, but also in previous councils when it comes to a series of activities held by the government and the state. We have repeatedly pointed out here the ignoring of the National Assembly when it comes to making decisions in a series of important policies – policies towards KIM, and now the National Assembly is in no way consulted, nor has anyone addressed the National Assembly when it comes to the debates on measures to mitigate the financial and economic crisis, which rock the whole world. All the parliaments of all countries in the world are involved in resolving these measures. I believe that all MPs are monitoring the extent to which the involvement of the parliaments of European and non-European states is in the debate on what the governments of these countries should do to make decisions and propose measures to alleviate the economic crisis and its effects that affect the population most, to the greatest extent, have been resolved. Only in Serbia did the National Assembly not have the opportunity to discuss with government representatives, primarily with the Prime Minister, but also with the most resolute ministers responsible for economic policy, about what the country should do in the future in terms of resolving this economic crisis that is increasingly affecting Serbia every day. We are witnessing that the presidents of the states, not only the Prime Ministers, are addressing the MPs of their parliaments. We had the opportunity to see that the entire public of individual countries was mobilized to address the economic crisis, by the public following the debate in the assembly, where the representatives of the people are sitting, and the debate is being held between representatives of the people, the MPs and representatives of the executive authority who are to bring these measures. In this sense, the attempt to eliminate this demining of the role of the National Assembly, which is now being convened in this assembly, represents and promotes the return of its powers to the National Assembly, at least through the fact that the President of the National Assembly will decide to initiate the selection procedure of members of the High Council of Justice. It is indisputable that the Commission is formed, that the Commission implements the procedure, that the procedure is detailedly governed by this law. Some of the shortcomings detected, according to us, by the DSS Group, through several amendments it has submitted, are intended to be removed. But to abandon the National Assembly and in this domain, we have completely abandoned the National Assembly in the domain of the control of the exercise of executive power, and now we are leaving the National Assembly out of the possibility that in some ways it participates in the start-up of the selection process of that body that has real power in the judiciary. And the real rule of law has the High Council of the Judiciary. The president of the National Assembly should only be someone who will open a session that will nominate what is proposed by authorised promoters, in this case and the High Council of Justice in the old council, which is not good. So the basic motive of this amendment is to show, of course, the Ministry of Justice and the public of Serbia, that the National Assembly is ignored in the most important and most vital issues at this time in Serbia. How many times did opposition representatives go out for this pay phone and ask the representatives of the executive government, as well as the president of the National Assembly – why does the National Assembly not discuss both KIM and measures to combat the financial and economic crisis in Serbia?- I'm sorry. Is it possible that the president of the National Assembly can't call on the Prime Minister, who probably watches every day, I suppose he's also following foreign media, and sees that all parliaments are discussing it, all the press is writing about it. Believe me, when the media in Serbia are looked at, you don't get a chance to hear the economic and financial crisis mentioned in Serbia at all, if you don't look at the National Assembly sessions. Only the opposition MPs talk about it. Then the citizens have a chance to hear what kind of problems we're just going to face, and when the MPs talk about it, they accuse themselves of spreading panic. When we come out with concrete measures, such as the DSS, then first these measures are ignored, and then, in silence, below the grain, most of these measures are accepted due to the absence of the government's inventiveness and initiative. That's the fact we're facing. Here's another fact that suggests that this parliament is being ignored, which is the fact that we do not have a budget before the National Assembly, which the government has not adopted. Citizens wonder if this is a sign of the government's impotence, the absence of the initiative, the visions of how to solve problems and whether this political crisis, which is deepening every day, is reflected in the budget because of these problems we have heard. So, I propose that the representatives of the government, Minister Malovic, adopt this amendment and that the right of the National Assembly president to decide on the launch of this very important process – for the first time in the history of the judiciary, the High Council of Justice is elected in the general elections, in which all judges in Serbia will participate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8452	Thank you. The word was answered by Mr Miroslav Petkovic, then Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8453	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Mrs. Malovic, counterpart Palalic well explained the amendment tabled by the DSS. It's just, this little time that's left, I'm going to try to explain a few more things. Indeed, we at the DSS do not see the reason why the National Assembly would not initiate this whole procedure. There's more than one author of authority. The High Council is only one of the proposings which delivers a number of proposals. I know, you'll say what, when the National Assembly disbands, but the deadlines are a little longer, so even in that case, I don't think we'd get into any trouble. I just want to tell you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic will not always be president of the Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia will not be irresponsible and unserious to stop Parliament's work, so we will have the opportunity to carry out the procedure here in the best possible way. As far as attitude 3 is concerned, only briefly, since time does not allow me, which we also submitted the amendment to, is related to this formulation that I tried to explain in principle, to clarify, and I still do not understand that it is the oldest law school in Serbia. [[Applause]] I think there should be an indisputable fact in the law, the unchangeable fact that the oldest law school in the Republic of Serbia – the Faculty of Law in Belgrade – and that you cannot, as hard as you are trying, make it neither better nor older than the Faculty of Law in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8454	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8455	Mr. Novakovic, they're affecting me and telling me to back this amendment. I will not support this amendment. Now I'm going to explain why I won't support this amendment. Not out of spite, but for reasons that exist. Why? I don't want to play their game. Their game is the wrong game. Serbia's public needs to know, especially those involved in the affairs of the judiciary and those studying, and they count on them to be judges and prosecutors, to see what a hoax is. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 153(2) and (3), provides for the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council: 11 members, there are members of the office; this is the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the chairman of the National Assembly's committee, which is the chairman of the Justice Committee. We've got eight election papers, six judges, one of them's gonna be from the law school's office, one of them's law school professors. Someone explain - is this High Council of the Judiciary a professional, competent body that needs to regulate the functioning of the courts and the status issues of judges?- I'm sorry. If it's an expert organ, I'm sorry, please, who assures us the minister is an expert? It's nothing to do with Mrs. Malovic, let me tell you right away, at the beginning. What's a guarantee of expertise? The fact that he is a member of the government and what is likely to belong to the congregation's majority? What is our guarantee of the expertise of the chairman of the Justice Committee? What is the agreement of all political groups in the National Assembly, in an appropriate proportion to all parties on that committee, on the basis of some silent agreement, that someone becomes the chairman of the Justice Committee? Where's his expertise? Technically, he could be a chef. There's no interference, because it's a layman's assembly. Where does it say that the chairman of the Justice Committee must be a graduate lawyer, with 15 years of work experience, etc.? Nowhere! Why? And the lists of candidates for MPs when they are being made – school preparation is not a condition. I don't want to talk about the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. You have this methodology of selecting six judges as future election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. By what criteria do they choose? Status, what are the judges? Professional? How can a professional criterion be expressed when you have an Electoral Commission and a court vote? It is very simple, very simple, to conclude that the High Council of the Judiciary is in the future, regardless of how to choose, first of all, a political body, not an expert body. (I don't know if I'm not in the skin of a judge in Nis! ) Can you imagine Bosko Ristić as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, by function? What can he consider professionally about courts? Let's be more honest. In the case of some pre-mposition of the political scene and the presence of parties in the National Assembly, it is possible that someone from another political party may be the chairman of the Justice Committee without having to do with the judiciary, nor that he is a graduate lawyer, nor that he is a lawyer. Here, Srdjan Milivojevic, as a graduate agricultural engineer, can be the chairman of the Justice Committee. And, now, he's supposed to be a member of the High Court Council. Is the High Council of the Judiciary an expert body? In principle, I ask the question, it has nothing to do with Mr. Milivojevic, or Bosca Ristic, I just take, as an example, what is possible to happen. As you understand the National Assembly, it is possible for a citizen to be the chairman of the Justice Committee; whoever stole the mandates, stole the money, you have some interest, you keep it here, swore in church, etc., all of this ran over, could be the chairman of the Justice Committee and he would become a member of the High Council of Justice, acting as a member. Now we need someone here to convince us that the High Judicial Council will take care of the judge's status, the court's organisation, they will conclude how many judges, judges, etc. Who chooses the High Council of the Judiciary? There is something in office, something is chosen in the National Assembly; eight is chosen in the National Assembly. Look, to which absurdity these non-self-controllers have brought the concept of the law. What's this about? A complete election procedure is being conducted in all courts, with six candidates proposed to the National Assembly to be elected. In some way, it is possible to propose two for each of these places, meaning 12, and come to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly does not choose any. What did you paint for free?- I'm sorry. You conducted an election procedure, an Electoral Commission, a run for office, a general session, forced judges to go to polling stations to vote, to round up the papers. Can a ballot be used to select a man who needs to be professional? He can't! Here, all the MPs, not because they are beautiful, smart or professional, but because at the time when elections were held, were the electoral will of citizens to vote on a political party, so it was proportionately represented. Can we, through referendums and elections, reach an expert candidate? We can't. Why? It's lobbying. As at the time of the workers' council, I see there are seven heads, so they remember that period, the election for OOUR's working council. They make all the workers go there to vote, to vote, to choose a working council, but still, what the Union of Communists has said will be so. Now the Union of Communists is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in some aggregate state. It doesn't matter if it's going to be a crown, whether it's going to be this one, whether it's going to be her, absolutely doesn't matter. We're talking principledly. You swear on your expertise, and there's no guarantee that we in the National Assembly, in the future, when we vote here for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, for eight of them, so let there be 16 candidates, I've added these two from law school and law school to vote for the most professional. What is the guarantee of their expertise? I'm taking you back to something I keep saying. It is the same as our Finance Committee proposes governors, members of the NBS Council, etc. Are you aware that, say, Radovan Jelasic is the most professional man for the job of the governor of the NBS?- I'm sorry. Presummation was created because some procedure was respected. Someone has proposed to the Committee, the Committee has proposed to the National Assembly, the National Assembly has decided, but the National Assembly is not an expert body, it is no larger, some five-member or three-member court council, where people with qualifications sit, nor is the board of directors, nor is it for the evaluation of reports for extraordinary professors, regular professors, etc. No, but literally – the jumbles gathered here, who has more hands up, and thus Bosko Ristic became an expert. If by any chance Petrovic were the minister of justice, then he would now be the most professional, and he would be a year's intern, a lawyer. He can't! We have something similar in the existing (now, Verice, as it is called) High Council of Justice, we have a professor there, he fits in with Vida Petrovic and those there, I think Tomic. His term of office expired? I'm sorry, then. But they push, they push. What is a guarantee of expertise, and it is said in art. In 153 and 154, no more politics will determine who will be the judge, the profession will determine, it will be the people themselves from the court to choose, they will come to the candidate's proposal. When he gets here to the National Assembly, he won't pick him. We're gonna have a problem with the Council, I think, in education, it was. It was a circus in the National Assembly during the vote. Iolae a morale man would say – don't put my name there, that someone is living with my name and last name on the ballot in the National Assembly! Why is there a need to devalue it all? That's our main problem. Everyone swears to the Constitution and the law, the morality, and not to talk about these in church, this, that, but when the time comes to apply, all this falls, the politics dominates. Now you're going to transfer politics from the National Assembly to the High Council of the Judiciary. It's just a question -- who's the bigger master there? I don't want to mention it to anyone, I have no intention of insulting anyone, but there was one intelligent minister, so when he was supposed to sign for Milosevic, he planted an assistant to sign it - I'm not, I'm clean. That's right, Petrovic now. He planted the minister to sign, to leave Karadzic, and now he's clean, everyone else is clean. Now I need it for political reasons... Mrs. Malovic, forget what I said, it has nothing to do with you, someone tried to trick you and deceived you. But that's your company, that's your company. We've got a prank on our hands. Now we need to spend our strength, no Mrs. Susane Grubjesic, please, let the public understand that she is gone, she is gone, and she, the poor woman, got into trouble last night – obstruction! Well, it's obstruction with these bill proposals. If it wasn't for this public debate in the National Assembly, would the public know what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? Would anyone know what's going on in public enterprises that Dragan Todorovic hasn't read this data in a year, and you're smiling. We have won what he has said. It is a victory, but Serbia has failed because you have won! That's the problem. I'm not gonna waste your time. I hope I was convincing enough to make you realize that this has nothing to do with it. There will be ballots in the courts, judges will argue over this, who, how, one lobby, another lobby, will be left behind, all of them will finish nicely, come to the National Assembly of some ruling coalition that will be dissatisfied, will not vote. You didn't paint for nothing! You've worked for nothing and you've bullied these judges for nothing, you've made them listeners who need to commit to Mike, Pere or Laza, and they won't go to the National Assembly, or Pera, or Mike, or Laza, and all the sausages look serious. Someone who reads, even if they take it, Vučetić, the one Ivosevic, and I don't tell you these from the NGO sector, which they push, give support, etc., or this one from your Chiplic. We wait for him for discrimination to come, when he starts to explain, etc., I was the chairman of the municipal board, so I didn't, so I was a non-party person, and I was chairman of the DS Committee in Novi Sad when it was supposed to be elected, etc. You no longer have the capacity to fool the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Kill this pay phone here, so you know. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8456	Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 22(6), Article 23(3), Article 24(5), Article 33(1), Article 50(2) and Article 52(1). It's a bill of law. Since the proposing representative accepted these amendments at the session of the Legislative Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that amendments are legally possible, so I realize that these amendments have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8457	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ms Malovic, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 23, in fact, two amendments to this article, and I will explain this in the first position, which reads: "The candidate for an election member of the Council of Judges may be any judge in the Republic of Serbia, who has served as judge for at least seven years. ''In our amendment, we have foreseen that these words and this anti-constitutional condition "at least seven years" are deleted, and that this position is "A candidate for an election member of the Council of Judges can be any judge in the Republic of Serbia, with a permanent judicial office. ''Indeed, Article 146. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly guarantees the continuity of the judicial function and we believe that this condition of seven years is contrary to the performance of the judicial function. The constitution is clear as the border of passive electoral law set the continuity of the judicial function and therefore the law cannot set stricter conditions than the Constitution provided for by passive voting law. To take advantage of the opportunity, given that counterpart Martinovic made a few remarks about article 14, which says the High Council sessions of the judiciary are not public. You accepted the amendment and I think it was a scandalous provision that stood in this law, so I ask you to accept this amendment in this debate and the next one that was submitted by a colleague, Aligrudic, because, believe me, they regulate this area in a much better way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8458	The word is Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first, I am immediately pleased that the government has accepted 15 amendments, by the DSS, seven in all, and I am expressing hope that there will be room to accept perhaps some of the amendments submitted. When it comes to the amendment to Article 23, paragraph 1, submitted by my colleague Mr. Petkovic, I think it would have been better if it hadn't been for a seven-year term for candidate election members of the Council of Judges. First, the question arises whether the seven-year limit is the one that makes one judge quality compared to other judges. The other thing is, I'm interested in criteria. Which was run by the proposer of this law when he proposed a condition like this. On the other hand, in our opinion, this provision is not the best solution, for one simple reason, which, if we know that candidate status is being obtained at the session of all judges, then simply, the reason for accepting this amendment is even greater. I guess the session of all judges is just as the body of the internal court, which can best determine which judge is the one who, according to the results of his work, by expertise, by dignity, in general, is worthy, by all the general rules and quality and standards of profession, to act as an election member of the High Council of the judiciary. I urge the government to reconsider this amendment once more and find the opportunity to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8460	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8461	With regard to these deadlines that are foreseen here, therefore, if there is already this three-year time scale for the continuity of the judicial function and if we are talking about equality in passive law, I think that in that sense all permanent judges should be equal. Because if we give a seven-year term, which is given here, then it appears as a legal arbitration term. We're like a legislative body completely arbitrary to it for seven years, in line with the proposal of the promoter, and I don't see why it's seven years. If it's someone bigger, it's got to be 15 years or 20, why not nine years. I think that this problem is very easily solved by the fact that all judges in constant office are equated in their rights, and those who propose judges, all those who have the role of promoters in this process will take care of who they propose. What does it mean to rule out those fellow judges who don't qualify for those four years? In those four years, what will be significant about those who have already met the condition of at least three years of performing a judicial function or simply to gain the quality of perseverance? So there is no significant difference and I see no reason why this amendment should not be accepted and all judges in this regard equally. Another would have been if the legislator had proposed to the legislative body to come out with one serious deadline, which would have been a serious long time-out for the performance of the judicial office, for participation in the Council of Justice, which, for example, would have been 12 or 15 years. Then some reason would be born, so we could talk about it. Like this, these seven years don't look much like anything. I think we should really accept this amendment by Mr. Mishko Petkovic, I think he is rational and I think that, in the end, he leaves a broad range of opportunities for the applicants at the moment when the judges are actually elected to the High Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8462	Thank you. Based on article 85, I'm setting a break of one hour and continuing at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8463	We're continuing our work. I'd like to inform you that in accordance with article 85, we'll be working after 1800 hours, until this point is over. Realistically, we can finish this and in a perfectly decent time, my assessment is, somewhere, around 2:00, possibly 9:00. Amendment 23 has been reported by Ms. Verica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8464	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs in the afternoon have started a debate on the proposal for a law on the High Council of the Judiciary. We've had amendments to article 21 and that's two amendments. There were interesting discussions about the National Assembly, that is, the role of the National Assembly in running and proposing members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Of course, as always, the question is what is there in accordance with the Constitution, which is not in accordance with the Constitution. It is true that Article 153 in Chapter 8, when it comes to the jurisdiction of the national authorities, talks about the High Council of the judiciary, about the position, the composition and the choice, and this is clearly regulated in the Constitution, but the question arises – why what is in the Constitution is not properly transposed in the draft law. Mr Krasic explained perfectly today how Parliament works in this part and how he is trying to show by some story that there are some organs or that there are bodies that are exclusively of professional character, which are impartial etc., he has shown that it is actually impossible when it comes to the National Assembly. Because the National Assembly decides mostly and it's perfectly normal, so far it's always been, behold, it's not normal for a congregation majority to choose a candidate who, if not a member, is close to the congregation majority, or one of the parties in the congregation's majority. This, of course, is all characterized in a pretty ugly way and when the MPs speak about each other and when the media conveys it, you know, disdaining the National Assembly is every statement of any MP somewhere public, in the media, at a rally, from this place, etc., whether they are obstructing or not. What exactly is an obstruction of Parliament's work? Can anyone who is soundly thinking about saying that someone is obstructing Parliament if he spends 10 hours in this room, out of 10 hours more than half of his time in this place, talking to citizens, transferring what he learns from citizens, what he learns from representatives of the authorities, etc. And that's knowingly demeaning and knowingly demeaning Parliament's reputation?- I'm sorry. Well, then we're in a situation where we're not sure if we have enough trust in those decisions that are made in this House. These days, it was up to us to discuss the director of Belgrade's Airport, the abuses that are obvious, he himself confirmed his abuse by leaving both the Airport and the country. What's going on? So why is the problem of knowing that the SRS Parliamentary Group, which has always and always advocated a decisive fight against corruption and crime, has raised the issue of possible abuses of position, when it comes to Bojan Kristo, although all MPs have certainly joined it in a certain way and, of course, has again failed by the government to respond that same day, so as not to allow Bojan Kristo to leave, that the authorities do not have to chase him now. But why did I mention this? Not with the intention of returning the story to Bojan Krishti again, we will do so in a few days if we do not receive an adequate response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as promised, but for another reason. We now listen in public to representatives of the party belonging to Bojan Kristo, it is the party G17 plus, which they say – Bojan Kristo only resigned when Boris Tadic asked him to. Do we need to discuss whether the Serbian Parliament, or whether the SRS MPs since the first announcement of Mr Dragan Todorovic, have asked Kristo to resign or did Boris Tadic do it a day later, whether it reduces the responsibility of Bojan Krist, is he a minor thief if he listened to Boris Tadic, rather than if he listened or feared the vote coming from the SRS MPs? So that's how we disabling the integrity of the National Assembly. That's what's not good and that's what we don't have a right to, after all. Serbian citizens are going to the polls, Serbian citizens are choosing to vote and Serbian citizens are sending their representatives to this parliament. We are, above all, because of these citizens, and above all, because of the state of Serbia, because of the integrity of our country's obligation to take care of this Parliament and of this Parliament's dignity. Why is it that, when it comes to these amendments, I am still on the amendments to Article 21, and a very similar explanation can also be applied to Mr Miroslav Petkovic's amendment to Article 23, paragraph 1, which is currently current, why have the conflicting opinions on how and what role of Parliament should be? Indeed, citizens rightly wonder how much they can believe what the assembly majority here decides if the entire Serbian public knows, say, that we in Parliament have not debated the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget for eight years. How can we even bring new budgets without discussing in what way, how, where and under what conditions have the money spent by Serbian citizens from the budget of the previous year? When it comes to profits in public enterprises, I again return to what we in the SRS launched in the previous meeting, Mr Dragan Todorovic was then chairman of the Administrative Committee and in this role asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take to the Administrative Committee, and then to other MPs, not only members of the Administrative Board, to deliver salaries, i.e. for the president and members of the boards of directors in public enterprises and directors of public enterprises. That's when it was taboos. I remind you, first of all, because of the public, that that is when our Administrative Board received a letter from the Government, where the Government informs the Administrative Board, that the Government does not have such information and that the Government cannot interfere in any way with the Director's salaries, above all, and the Management Boards, in public enterprises. It is public enterprises formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Todorovic then had to go through the Commissioner for Public Information to request that information. One piece of that data came in the previous session, and that's when we started discussing it. We have reason to believe that the rest of the information, or data, has come to the presently illegal chairman of the Administrative Board, but since it is known that it is stealing documents, we cannot know now what has indeed arrived at the Administrative Committee in the meantime. How the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia react in public, above all, to what we warn Serbian citizens from this place, when it comes to KIM, the status of KIM, when it comes to the deployment of Eulex, illegally, unconstitutional, when it comes to the economic crisis that has affected, unfortunately, Serbia, and it was not normal to expect that Serbia will be beyond what is happening in the whole world. I remind you that, let's say, Djelic, the Deputy Prime Minister, said at some press conference, approximately – mildly to us and this economic crisis in the world, what is happening in the banking system across Europe and in the United States will have a good response in Serbia, because all foreign investors will run into Serbia; because Djelic and Tadic have made certain safe conditions possible for investors in Serbia. The next interesting response from the government's representatives, I simply need to mention several of them, Slobodan Milosavljevic, one of the ministers in the government, advises Serbian citizens to fight the austerity crisis by not buying stoves or washing machines. The citizens were scared of his messages, because it reminded them a lot of the time that Kori Udovici invited them to sell houses and apartments to pay electricity bills. Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic calls on Serbian citizens not to take credit, to refrain from it, and when one of the opposition MPs sends a similar message to Serbian citizens, they say we are panicking here. An interesting statement, the majority, the health minister, who also contributed to the relief of the suffering of Serbian citizens, who have already found themselves on the verge of existence, when it comes to the collection of drugs, has said coolly – well, if they are to be expensive, it is important that there are drugs, it doesn't matter how much they cost. This man obviously doesn't know that the vast majority of Serbian citizens don't even have a salary of what it is when two zeros are removed. One irresponsible and irresponsible relationship and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and unfortunately Parliament does not show what it should be, I am talking about the parliamentary majority, the will, if nothing else, to agree with the President of Parliament to put the topic on the agenda here. I remind you of the proposal for a resolution on KIM submitted by SRS, DSS and NS as early as June. My people, from June to today, it is not estimated in the congregation majority that we should discuss it, then today we would have a clear situation, because we would know in what frameworks our officials move in the white world when they are discussing what is vital interest, not just our citizens with KIM, but every patriotic citizen of Serbia. We must all make every effort to bring Parliament back to the place it belongs to under the Constitution. Don't just think, it's wrong to think that we who participate in Parliament's work in any way violate Parliament's dignity. That's what you do, by which trains pass. You don't mind what Krasic said, you read the newspaper, you phone, you have no idea. Now let's do a flash poll on this side, without intending to insult anyone personally, which law we're discussing now, if half the MPs hit it, we won't discuss the amendments anymore. (Amendman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8465	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8466	Madam Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we have on many occasions had this amendment. I don't mind what Mr. Petkovic, the DSS MP, suggested. It's one way to get this member done, practically. If we start from putting on some deadlines, some years of work experience, then the New Serbia amendment is extremely comprehensive and, in our opinion, should have accepted it. The longer experience is certainly one epithet, one assumption that some work will be better done. I don't see why it's been given here for seven years, when it comes to the High Council and the choice of candidates. Namely, related to what I said earlier, nowhere in the run itself, when we talk about judges, there are no deadlines like this. So, it's either six years for several courts or ten years now, since the New Serbia amendment was accepted for appeals courts, from eight to ten, and for the Cassation Court is a condition of twelve years. The real message from this New Serbia amendment is that anyone who can do more can do less. So, if one of the judges is elected or suggests a candidate for a judge, surely it is necessary to move the threshold of years of working experience in the judiciary, Mr Aligrudic has already said something about it. It is certainly the most acceptable proposal of at least ten years, which we have given in the amendment, because judges will be elected for appeals courts and it is somewhat illogical for someone with seven years of work experience to participate in selecting a condition of ten years. Maybe the right measure here would be twelve years, then we'd avoid any possibility that someone with ten years of work experience, as we suggested, would choose one of the twelve years of work experience, but surely this is a good solution if they put years of work experience as a condition. So, the High Council of the judiciary consists of those who are elected by office, these are: the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Minister and one member of Parliament, the chairman of the Justice Committee. It is unacceptable for these election members, six judges, one representative of the Bar Association and one representative from the professor's office, to choose someone who has less working experience, or to participate in their election someone who has a little judicial training, therefore, in a judicial capacity. There was no reason, Madam Minister, not to accept this amendment of ours, precisely for all these reasons that I have stated. I'm saying, there isn't a seven-year deadline anywhere, and I don't know why that deadline was given. However, everything about this set of judicial laws is possible, there is a lot of illogicalness, and we will talk about it in particular when we talk about the courts' seats and some things that have upset Serbia's public, so completely citizens of Serbia. The high council of the judiciary will certainly have one observed role, therefore, there have been a lot of criticism from the Judges' Society itself on all this. I think we should pass laws that are in the interest of Serbian citizens, which are in the interest of the legal certainty of Serbian citizens, but, as I said, anything is possible in Serbia. In Serbia, it is possible to promise free action, so that nothing can happen, in Serbia it is possible for five million people to get in line and wait for something they will not get. A large number of questions are raised in that direction, is it possible that someone could have said on such an arbitrary basis that there would be free action and that there would be nothing?- I'm sorry. Also, we're proud of one thing that's on a long stick right now, we know that the entire automotive industry in the whole world is in crisis, and we're only dealing with it now, that it's one crucial thing, that something will come to life, and we're shutting down something that's been working for years, and it's all just some illogical stuff. Of course, several times the NS MPs from this booth proposed, as well as other MP clubs and parties that were in this opposition section, that absolutely, before all these laws, should have put the Deposit Insurance Act on the agenda, because you see how long this debate takes, you see that we will spend the next week in this environment, and citizens are in a great panic, a large number of foreign deposits has been raised, it creates one complete uncertainty in people. Madam Minister, once again I'd like to ask you to accept this amendment to the NS, I think it's in the spirit of exactly the accepted amendment when we talked about the appeals courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8467	Thank you. Mr. Jojic on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by a colleague and explained, is an amendment that improves the text of this law, and also serves as an example for determining the criteria for selecting judges and prosecutors for certain functions and for holders of judicial functions. With us and the intern, he could be a member of the High Justice Council. Please, he should have 20 years of work experience on legal professions, i.e. that he worked either in court or in the prosecution, and in no case can it be accepted that a member of the High Council should have seven years of working experience. Who invented those seven years, I don't know, but one question is asked – are there built criteria for selecting members of the High Council of the judiciary? There is no criterion, there are no criteria built for neither the choice of judges nor the choice of prosecutors. It is necessary to establish criteria, and above all, to establish those criteria relating to the highest instance to decide on the choice of judicial holders, i.e. the High Judicial Council. To repeat, in England, he becomes a judge at the age of 52, and we need him to be a member of the High Judicial Council with seven years of work experience. However, there is no question whether it is seven years that it must have been in the profession or it can be, say, if it was a power of attorney or attorney as a representative of some agricultural cooperative. Now, there are serious problems. Please, there is no point in accepting that trainees and new judges can have this professional experience and that they can know which candidate meets the criteria and which should take up this high, honorable and privileged function. Take the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, you will see how it regulates the choice of judges and holders of judicial functions. In England, too. Please, as we would now be as beginners, we don't have experts, we don't have experienced holders of judicial functions, and now we have to choose the High Council of Judges for people who don't have the right to do so. I say, at the age of seven, there is no ID to decide who should be judge in Serbia tomorrow, it cannot! Without 10 years of working experience, he can't be a judge, let alone be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. At least 10 years should be done with a legal profession, with us in Serbia, a person who is running to be a judge or prosecutor, and only then can we have the appropriate judiciary in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, what one judge said -- they're making lists of similar and inappropriate again. This applies to DOS. That's what one judge of a county court said. I don't want to show his picture so that a man doesn't have any discomfort tomorrow, but he said: "I kindly ask DOS authorities not to represent me before the Republic Parliament without my authority in conflict with the deposed regime of Slobodan Milosevic." He says at the beginning of the conversation for this man, the district court judge. He says he sent a letter to Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, at the time, and Justice Minister Vladan Batic, insisting he is not returned to work. "Thank you for asking them to take me back to the judge of the district court, where I spent my time," I'm not going to name years, because for me, he's a protected witness. I can't reveal it, can I, Mr. Krassic? Says the journalist: "This judge does not hide that he is not at all satisfied with the first moves of the new government, which he says he has done a lot and has risked his own life several times." Now the question is, is this man right? So he was right when he made the statement. Why was he right? He says that he did something for a particular regime and that at least five times exposed his head and advocated his life to save a particular coalition in a particular government. He says, "They're making lists of similar and inappropriate judges again!" That's what I wanted to do as an example. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is more than better than any member referring to the choice of holders of judicial functions. If it is necessary to select a judge in the municipal court, in my opinion, it is necessary to have ten years of work experience. If it is a choice for a district judge, it takes 15 years of work experience. For the Court of Cassation, at least twenty years of working experience, in that he had passed all the confederations, that all the offices, then the grantovnica, had passed, that he had participated in an out-of-pared procedure, as is happening in France, Germany and England. Previously, for years they've been going to study in front of an investigative and court judge, even a federal court, say, in Germany. When he acquires a certain knowledge, he has a weight, he has expertise, and he can be entrusted with the function of sharing justice. Like this, there's no guarantee, no guarantee, there's someone who can be chosen without a sufficient check being done first. There's one thing that's recorded in Germany and what's in practice. A large part in the election is the minister of justice with parliament. That's not the case with us. In England they were called, until there was a reckoning between the crown and the parliament, the queen's courts and the queen's judge. The English Parliament later fought a bloody struggle to take over from the crown, and managed to take away that power that the crown had. However, we need judicial reform, there is no dispute. When it comes to the efficiency of the judiciary, there are controversial facts. Those facts are controversial because there was no way to do what could have been done. The control of judicial officials, especially judicial officers, has elapsed, hence the lack of control of the President of the Courts. What I see, and that's good, is that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the court is brought by the minister of justice, according to the new one. However, I have more confidence that the minister will order the inspection of the courts to be carried out and that they will check the working time of the courts. A fellow sitting behind you, he often goes to that court that says, "The working hours with the parties are 7:45 to 13.00 hours. "Well, where can it be, my people? Working hours is between 7:30 and 3:30. Isn't that right, Madam Minister? I apologize, there are courts with parties working in Belgrade until 3:00 to 15:30, and some courts are out of control. I had the opportunity to confirm some of the citizens' statements concerning The Hague tribunal, at the First and Second Municipal Court, and until 15:30. Go to Panchevo and see what it says on that board! I've talked about it more than once, and this time I'm calling the Panchev Municipal Court. Perhaps the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Supreme Court, which is in force, has set it that way. If he's determined, have the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Skero, check whether the Panchev Municipal Court works from 7.45 to 13.00 hours with the breaks and who allowed the citizens to be denied their rights until at least 15.00 hours? A man comes from Subotica or Vranja to verify the contract, statement, correction or to submit a submission to the Municipal Court in Pancheva, he can't hand it over, because the counter worker says, "I'm sorry, please, we're working with the parties by 13.00 hours. "Well, that's not good. That is why I am speaking to the President of the Supreme Court on this occasion, that the Supreme Court Supervisory Board is making sure that this is true or that I am telling the truth. I'm not satisfied, and citizens often complain and have legitimate objections as to why courts don't work full-time, but some do half the time, and they want big wages. They should be paid, but they have to work and they have to be at the service of the citizens, when a citizen comes to court, he's God to him. There's no other way. He's not there for anyone, there's your clerks, first of all, for the citizens. There are big problems, and please, Madam Minister, let the President of the Supreme Court be resolved and make sure this is correct. This isn't just a case in Panchev, there are other places. It's a serious thing. This deprives the constitutional right of our citizens. I have the right, and you have the right to go to court and at 3 p.m., confirm your statement. I said, someone comes from Saturday, goes 200 kilometers, someone from Vranj goes 300 kilometers and says to him one clerk, bureaucrats, "Sorry, we don't work with the parties, we finish the job by 13.00 hours." I repeat, this is a big problem. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the institution of choice of judicial officials should be arranged differently. It was better practice so far. Why was she better? In this parliament comes 250 MPs, MPs from over 120-130 municipalities come to this parliament. The MPs who come here have information about the character and the reputation of the candidate who is being proposed and running. This is the place to be solved, and here you have to say which candidate meets the criteria to be the judge who's the prosecutor, who's the deputy prosecutor. Without it, it will be the government's display for lustration and the government's selection and reckoning facility, possibly, with political opponents. What is very incorrect and inadmissible is that some judges, especially from the Society of Judges, are making remarks and accusing MPs in Parliament that they are dealing with the judiciary and that they soar from the stained veins that we reach quality and personnel in the judiciary. These gentlemen of the Society of Judges, their objections I can accept... Mr. Jojic, time. )......................................................................................................... I'll finish, and I'll continue later. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8469	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8470	Thank you. First I have to point out what I wanted with this amendment. In the draft law, Article 23 deals with the conditions for running for members of the High Council of the Judiciary, which comes from the order of the Judges, in paragraphs 1 and 2. Item 1, which has already been mentioned in the previous amendment, provides for the following: ''A candidate for an election member of the Council of Judges may be any judge in the Republic of Serbia, who has served as judge for at least seven years. ''So, the condition for the judge to become a member of the High Council of the Judiciary is that for seven years he performed a permanent post in court. It is not enough to pass a judicial exam, not enough, even if he had worked in the legal profession, it is necessary and required of him to perform his judicial duties for at least seven years. We recently heard Mr. Spasojevic, who explained Markic's amendment, saying that this limit, that deadline, should be made and longer in order to guarantee the experience of members of the Permanent Council of the judiciary, of course, and when proposing candidates, and thus make the institution more serious. It certainly has some reason. However, in point 2 of the motion, the applicant predicted the following: "Extremely from the position of the 1st member" (when it comes to judges), "A candidate for the selection of members of the Council from the order of criminal judges and the High Court of Justice" (if it is a criminal judge), "There may be any judge of these courts who, after a judicial trial, has at least six years of working experience in the legal profession. '"So, here is a much lower condition for running. It's enough to have a judicial exam and six years of training in the legal profession. Later I see that my amendment, which I asked to delete this 2nd position, has been rejected for the following reasons, it is said – the government has accepted the amendment of MP Boris Aleksic, who proposed that the candidate for an election member of the Council in the order of 'infringers', I shortened it on purpose in order to make it easier to understand, after having passed the judicial exam should have at least seven years of working experience in the legal profession. Believe me, this amendment to Mr. Alexic didn't solve anything. It's no problem if it's six or seven, the problem is in a different context. There's something missing, in this case, a criminal judge, and I'll explain why he normally misses it. He's missing seven years of "permanence" at the judge's office. He can't have those seven years! And here's why we're having problems that this bill, and even the amendments that we've accepted, can't solve. Namely, the criminal judges so far have been, and are still, in practice, law enforcement authorities, regardless of the name of the criminal court. The moment the law on courts enters into force, which is on 1 January 2010, then, by letter of law, after that period, which is vacatio legis, they become the same as other judges. From that moment on, they should be in everything equal both before the Constitution and before the law with every other judge. They should be. But obviously they're not and they won't be. Article 153 The constitution is now going on, predicting the fourth position: "Operating Members", is meant by the High Council of the Judiciary, "the six judges with a permanent judicial office, one of which is from the territory of autonomous provinces," which we have already talked about, and fortunately these amendments have been adopted when it comes to plurality, autonomous provinces, and now there is a text that no longer applies to judges who have a permanent judicial function. In other words, the Constitution has been stimulated that these must be judges with permanent judicial office. The moment we assume that the judges for violations of any regulation we have passed is not relevant, it is not this regulation, it is, for example, the Law on Judges, some other law, judges who can have permanent judicial office, from that moment on, all regulations must be in accordance with Article 153(4). The constitution can't even be discriminated against. Now there's an unsettled problem. Given the time limit when the law enters into force, which will provide for a different position of judges for violations, how it now reacts in that void. And here it was in the draft bill of Solomon's solution, to set one deadline, when it comes to the internship in the legal profession and the condition relating to the judicial exam, to say, well, that's that internship, that's the condition that someone could be a candidate from the order of criminal judges for the High Council of Justice. The provisions of Article 153(4) shall be broken at the same time as the provisions of Article 153(4). The Constitution. She doesn't even know this kind of transitional solution that we're talking about here, through the transitional provisions of our law. How do you solve that? We have suggested the following, so it is very important to follow the amendments in its general and overall connection, to abolish this condition with the judges in the first position of this member. We said, "No judge's perseverance, nothing for seven years." It is now completely contrary to Mr Markicevic's amendment, I basically agree with the idea of Mr Markicevic, but then the question is how to implement this idea in practice, given this forest rules that we have and the conditions of the Constitution. It is more logical to miss the opportunity to standard the length of time it takes to become a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, to leave it to the Proposer and his conscience. Because certainly, the proposer will not propose someone who has half a year's internship in court for a member of the High Council of Justice, but we are starting from a reasonable assumption that those who sit in the High Council of Justice are reasonable enough to give us proposed candidates who meet some normal, moral conditions to perform that function, and ultimately, those who decide to choose are themselves not to accept the proposal. Therefore, instead of creating a forest of rules that becomes unclear and which is very difficult to justify from the point of view of Article 153(4). The constitution, it's much smarter to delete the given conditions. Once we have deleted the condition set out in item 1, it is necessary to completely delete attitude 2. If we're holding position two, look, just semantically, for criminal judges, then it's not true that criminal judges are even in everything with other judges. If that's not true, they don't even have room here. Why, then, would the judge find himself in the High Judiciary Council? Well, it's because that high council of the judiciary will be in charge tomorrow and for judges for violations, when it comes to judges for violations. The notion of judges since 2010 refers to a judge for violations. We have to decide what we want here. You have systems in a world where you don't have a judge for violations, but certain state authorities conduct a misdemeanor procedure and impose criminal sanctions. We have elements of it that won't change easily. Just take the customs authority. You have in other countries, we can change it, it's not a problem, but I'm saying that it exists in practice, and in other countries you have no judges for violations. The question is, what do we define ourselves for? If we define ourselves as a kind of method to solve the situation of judges, to put them in judges for violations, then we need to be careful how we standardize it. I'm very sorry that there are regulations coming out of this congregation that, when someone is studying, and they're going to study them for sure in law school, someone's going to teach it to the students tomorrow, and then they need to explain to them what nonsense we've been doing here. Which is why we had to violate Article 153 at some point. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to solve a technical problem that has simply been imposed on us at one point? So please, it was wiser that we looked closely at these amendments, which were proposed here, that we sat down and discussed it properly on the Committee. I'm not a member of that board, but it was worth doing and finding some solution that would do the least harm here. Even, if necessary, and to amend the provision, the legislation was obtained by the legislator and the special transitional provisions of other laws, such as the Law on Judges, in part, in order to bring the regulations in line and at some point enter into force in a complicated manner, thus solving the problem that lies before us. I ask you most nicely, I understand all the problems that stand here when it comes to this provision, but I ask you best to accept in the end, explain and tell the ruling majority to vote in favour of this and the previous amendment, and we will have the least damage there. If something needs to be changed in the second law, which has already passed the debate, we can also do so through the amendment of that law, through one member, and in the next period, so that these regulations comply. Not to be able to come out of here as legislators and you as legislators, whose law school students will laugh when they listen to a lecture on this matter. I ask you to accept this amendment as well as the previous amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8471	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Zoran Krasic has on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8472	I have to draw attention to what Mr. Aligrudić said was absolutely right. But then the problem isn't in this article, it's in the previous article. The problem is that you essentially misread what is in Article 153. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For six candidates, election members, the conditions are here, practically, prescribed and the question is whether we can go beyond these conditions set by the Constitution. Does the Assembly have this constitutional authority to in some way introduce a qualified form of conditions in the application of Article 153? From the view of the Constitution, the candidate for a member of the Supreme Council of the Judges, these six election members must meet only that condition – that they have permanent judicial office. Now, the question is, are we authorized to establish something else by law, so that we can tie up years of judicial office? Here, he just wanted the case, because of the fact that the judges for the offenses are in the body for the offenses, that's the fact that, in the near future, it's supposed to be a court. And this amendment to the Law of Infractions is about us promoting the court, but I'm saying that a court of offense is being promoted only because of a prison sentence. It's impossible that a judge for violations, which is now in the authority of the administration, maltene, can punish someone with a prison sentence. This is the only condition of the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe, and it concerns the European Convention on Human Rights. We now have a situation that, from the point of view of the violations, the future organisation of these courts, the criminal and the High Violent, none actually fulfils the conditions. So no judge could meet these conditions. However, I must draw attention, and it is likely that those who propose to interpret it in this way, if one of the judges is in the municipal body for violations, that it be considered to him as a judicial function. I have to say that there's some excuse, too, because the fact that he's been performing that judicial function in this period as a judge of offense, no matter what he's in the organ or in that second-degree body of offense. This only contributes to that weight this morning – that this is essentially the wrong concept, really the wrong concept. You see, the government, in fact, is counting on the way that the state body, the High Council of the Judiciary, is being formed and can be given some democratic legitimacy, and that it draws the legitimacy of legal work, which is not true. It's just not true. and it can no longer be an expert body that would take care of our judiciary. This is a big problem. The applicants of this amendment are right, but I must say that those who have sought something more rigorous are also right. They're right, too, because, however, some guarantee for membership in this state body is certainly, in addition to performing a judicial function, and the fact that it has some working experience in performing a judicial function, well, whether it's six, seven or ten years, in this case, maybe it doesn't matter that much. But we're also aware that even a man who's been working as a judge for two or three years can be an extraordinary acquaintance, an extraordinary expert. Even, it's probably a rule, because it masteres matter, it wants to prove itself, it has much more expertise, because it has time and obligation to study court practice, because it does not want to allow itself to fall judgments and that it has, as Batic said a few days ago, confirmed judgments 10 or 15%, but wants to have as many confirmed verdicts as possible, to gain judicial authority for the future. You see, I think these amendments show some kind of absurdity just because of the wrong concept. I don't want to touch the part that's prescribed by the Constitution, which can be criticised, but it can really be criticized. What can be criticized for? Because the judge chooses the National Assembly in the trial work, and the judge, as they say, in the permanent performance of the judgeship, chooses the High Council of the Judiciary – and what is the difference? I guess if it's something of quality to get its legitimacy -- it needs to get here, in a legislative body, not in some body. I get the impression that even the Society of Judges is being fenced by this bill. They wrote it?- I'm sorry. I know they wrote it, but it depends on which lobby he won, you know? It is not good at all when NGOs or associations are involved in something called a state organisation, state authorities. I fully agree, ma'am, with you. I know you've had a lot of problems, because when they start with some shows and lobbying etc., things happen. You have to understand, the communists were a lot of thugs. They formally met the conditions regarding the association of judges and prosecutors, and do you know how? There was a Committee of Lawyers and the chairman of the Legal Committee in the cities were people from the courts. They had this publishing activity – to publish some judgments. There was an organization on the paper, and it was essentially without any influence. However, this foreign factor has now appeared. Look at the Society of Judges, enter their site and you will see who is funding their publishing activity – abroad! This is the problem of the state – why? Because I don't know why the foreigner would give money if something were going on in Serbia with that money and that would be the benefit of Serbian citizens -- there's no way. It's the same as that cheese in the mouse, the exact same situation – put cheese on, free, to hit and kill someone. We, unfortunately, become a polygon filled with these beaks – that's our truth, our reality. So this amendment is so good that it shows the absurdity of this whole project. Secondly, I am absolutely sure that in this general devaluation of everything and everything, simply, everyone here in the Assembly is racing to devalue the political influence of the party and in the beginning, the political influence of a party is treated as something bad. Then one bad message is that everything is bad in political parties. If such a message goes, then someone rightly asks the question – how political parties, regardless of their own transition, can bring something good when they say everything is bad in political parties. He who says something bad is in that political party is willing to accept that someone else tells him there's something wrong with him in the political party. That's where you get these B-92s from B-Blic, Press and those who want to prove that politics is the oldest trade and that, as a rule, it's immoral. We just need the results of our work, by voting the law and by other means to prove something the other way around – that politics is a high moral category. Of course, when there are citizens who pretend to be MPs, and even when I read the newspaper, they criticize G17 for stealing. Then you get it all figured out. The man buys the paper, reads it, says this one, and this one zoombul, criticises the G17 that they're thieves, and there are some in the DS. The reader says, "How is that possible?" He swore in church, and now he's talking to these friends about being a thief. It's not working. I think the wrong concept of the law inevitably imposes that in a few years you are again seeking to change this law, some alignment, if I may say, some maneuvering space and some trick for some new scam. I explained to you this morning, it's technically possible that the chairman of the Justice Committee could be a metal man. He becomes a member of the Supreme Judicial Council to discuss who could be the Supreme Court judge. I know it's chosen by the Assembly, and we have strange things happening in the Assembly. Thanks to these transmissions, citizens say, look at these things that happen in the Assembly, they serve no one. So we can't hide behind the congregation in every segment and everything. We are told, in the Constitution, that the High Council of the Judiciary should be a high-level, professional state body, which watches over an independent, independent, besieged, courageous judiciary, which should share justice, justice, etc. This, after this concept of your law becomes an impossible mission, an absolutely impossible mission. In the principle debate, I've drawn attention to you having the wrong concept, that you should get this all back to some kind of do-over, but you've created a media atmosphere that depends on these laws and the course of the dinar, tomorrow which is going to be, although in the bill of law, you've stated that it's starting to apply on 1 January 2010. Now, from this pay phone, we can't fight the media picture. Maybe this transmission looks at 100,000 people, but what's worth, some other television, some other entertainment shows, some other newspaper reads a far larger number of people, where they get a completely different message. I think the advantage of this amendment is that Mr. Aligrudic specifically proves the absurdity of all that is done. You now have about 126-128, it's possible that in 2010, the majority, of 128 or 130, might be some different composition. Officials are delivering a list of candidates for election for the High Council of the Judiciary, and these people don't pass. And in all courts, the campaign and lobbying and voting for election for members of the working council were conducted, and then the judge said, "Excuse me, please, by law, you've forced us to enter this procedure, to argue with each other, to run for office, to choose, so the election committees, so this, and so on." We finished this job, you didn't choose the High Court Council. It's all made up! Why? To remain that zero composition of the High Council of the Judiciary. A zero composition, in which there is formally no judge with a permanent court office, because you suggest re-election or to be more precise – for them 6 there is continuity and sustainability, but for 2,494 there is no. That's the problem. So we're going back to the political background again, to the motives of why we're going into this operation in this way. I am absolutely sure that such constitutional solutions can make better-quality bill proposals, which can certainly guarantee the independence and independence of our judiciary. However we turn around, we come up with that story about what the proposer was going to say with this bill. So the message that comes to us is neither the Constitution nor something legal, but the zero composition of the High Council of the judiciary, which will cheer and dress after 2010 and who knows how long, of course, if DS is in power, because it is practically unchangeable. Why unchangeable? Because according to this, a new composition of the High Council of the judiciary cannot be selected, it is impossible to choose. We already had that in 2002. I don't doubt the proposing's intentions, but they blocked those in power. That's a fact. That's why we're still applying the jurisdiction provisions of the 2001 courts. And today we have a budget item for appeals courts, and we have no appeals courts. We have items for others. So the wrong operation at a very bad time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8473	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes this amendment is legally possible Mr Miroslav Petkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8474	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Cosic, given that the minister is currently out, I hope you'll pass on to her what we've been talking about, although we will still have the opportunity to discuss in detail. Obviously, it is indisputable for the DSS MPs to correct this text with their amendments, the bill. Not only has seven amendments been accepted, but it is agreed, as we have heard, by all opposition parties in Parliament that the envisaged solution will not give the expected results in Article 23. The fact is, this is the moment when this mistake can be corrected and this matter can be regulated in one and most comprehensive way. Namely, we have submitted the amendment to the first position. I think Mr Aligrudić, explaining Article 23's first and second position in one brilliant fair argument, managed to convince the minister why we insist on all this, because he briefly explained everything that is avoided and all the things and qualities we can get if these amendments are accepted. We had an opportunity to hear that the proposed member of the law is in conflict with both constitutional solutions and with Article 146. The Constitution, which guarantees the continuity of the judge's office, and with Article 153. The Constitution. I think that this is the most elegant way to avoid it by eradicating one part of the first position, which means that judges with permanent judicial office are participating, and by eradicating the second attitude of the proposed law, because we do not want to share judges in Serbia. We do not want to bring them into an unequal position – that seven years of judicial functions, practically, be demoted, in some way, with six years of work, working experience in the legal profession. We even tried not to take this wrongly to want to act restrictively with our amendments, to add another position after the 3rd attitude. This is what Honorable counterpart Milos Radulovic proposed with his amendment, where he envisioned: "The candidate status is being obtained and a judge supported by at least ten judges of sorts and a court of law in which the candidate is serving as judge. "The position of the 3rd member foresees that the candidate status is obtained by a judge who is proposed by a session of all judges of one or more courts, but in this way we are trying to predict the possibility that all judges, who by their reputation, by their work, deserve the trust of their colleagues, collect a number of signatures, say, that it is ten, can also run in this way to ensure maximum democraticity of choice and freedom for judges to propose and choose. It may, in some ways, bounce away from the concept that the Ministry of Justice had, but I think it's a good solution for the future. Come on, let's not look, let's just do it, just let some law pass here, principle debate, accept a few amendments, and then in six months or a year we'll re-access to his changes and additions. I think it is clear to all in Serbia, and to the MPs, what are the powers and what are the tasks to be done by the High Council of the Judiciary, the body that sends rain to the judiciary in Serbia, which elects all judges in the Republic of Serbia. And, so let's take this opportunity, when we're discussing this law, to put everything that's good into this law, and if there's any changes, that's been doing it for a few years, not to do the same thing, but in the next year or in 2010, when this starts to work, and when we realize that certain failures have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8475	Thank you. First Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8476	Thanks to these inspiring amendments to the DSS, it is best to see what absurdity is present in proposing this law. Probably, either Susana Grubjesic or Srdjan Milivojevic have authority over such solutions. To translate that into a national language. The viewers shouldn't laugh because it's a very serious issue. What's this about? According to this amendment, which is a humorous nature, ten judges can write a proposal to put their colleague as the eleventh on the list of candidates the judges will vote on, to determine who will win, the one who wins will only be proposed and will not be elected here. If we are already going to this kind of election, and they are hardly different from the election for the committees or MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then you need a supervisory board to control whether the election campaign, proposed by someone, was correct and to see how lobbying was, so that to see how much they were represented in the media, it would probably be necessary and the blank resignations, but surely those signatures of the judges would have to be certified by the court. I have to inform you that a criminal complaint has been filed against some people working in municipal courts, who during the previous election campaign have confirmed the statements of candidates who supported some election lists, and it is about candidates who have died. So, the citizens who died, someone came with a ID card, acted on a court order of signature, and then we open up the question – does what works on the court's authority meet the conditions? You can make a circus out of this. I'm not making this circus, I'm making this circus the real promoters who suggested this. With two amendments, the DSS had a basis to say that they were seriously suggesting it, but I think they're kidding, to show in that kind of joke what our judiciary would look like. I don't know why anyone cares about our judiciary coming down to those low branches. Ten judges can propose to their colleague on the 11th, I don't know if this is a cocous, a lobby group at the Senate, at Congress. What's this about? The best ones are the amendments they say – the article is deleted because they have an appropriate width. These creative amendments show under what state of mind the Judges' Society has come to high thought solutions and put pressure on the Ministry of Justice. And Madam Minister is right, this is not their original creation. Mrs. Bolevic, Vida Petrovic-Skero, and Boža Prelevic, so Zoran Ivosevic, for sure and Vučetić, so Hadji Omerovic, this intellectual force of the Serbian judiciary designed such a solution and, of course, that you provoked people to say that the candidate's status may also have ten judges, those who sign their own candidacy would also need a supervisory board. You would have to take care of the extended composition of the electoral committee, Cosic, as well as the elections. Anyone who proposes must have a member in the extended membership of the electoral committee. That's what democracy gave us at the time when the working councils were elected, just as it was, Cardellus was so predicted. I agree that there is a Cardeli's influence in this yellow company, if nothing else, through Ljuba Tadic, Doberica Cosic and some others, but these are overcome solutions. These solutions were spit out a long time ago, to be exact, back in 1991, because it didn't lead to anything. You want a non-partisan state and you're offering solutions like this, and then the DSS shows a sense of humor, and we're just doing an interpretation to make the citizens understand what it's all about. They'd better understand from the pay phone what's being prepared than from some burlesque. Practice will be terrible. If this comes back to life, we won't have any more dishes. You will receive a notice at the door – today the court is not working, we select candidates who may suggest to be candidates for the High Council of the Judiciary. Then the judges will argue, so since the courts of the same degree are a little bit dilated, I didn't want to go any further, here, in this article you admitted that rank, etc., which I was saying the other day, that all the courts in Serbia, according to the new Constitution, are republican. No municipal, no county, they're all republican. After the SB presidential statement, God forbid you go to Kosovo Mitrovica. If you go to the south, you have three laws that will apply to one behavior. If you go to the north, you've done well, you've got two. If you cross the customs checkpoint and head for Raska, you have one. All these territories are composed of the Republic of Serbia under Resolution 1244. That I'm not in your skin when the issue of mistrust starts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8477	Thank you. Mr. Palalic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8478	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this amendment and this article speak of one fact that we cannot ignore, which is passed by new laws, especially this law on the high council of the judiciary, regardless of what may seem ridiculous or inconclusive to someone, but we have classical, real elections in the judiciary, for the highest body in fact exercising judicial power in Serbia – the High Council of the Judiciary. The question now is how and how the election process will be conducted in all courts of all levels in Serbia, as fully as possible and as detailed as possible. In Article 23, which has caused the most controversy here, Paragraph 3 says candidate status for the High Council of Justice is gaining. The promoter here defined the status by proposing a session of all judges to one or more courts by type and degree of court. The question now arises as to what candidates are elected in the High Council of the Judiciary and does this stand make us, indeed, the choice of the best candidate or the election for the High Council of the judiciary in the entire judiciary a choice between courts. That's the essential question. We will have a competition here between the basic courts in Serbia, whose representative will be in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, between the senior court, between the Court of Appeals and not among the best candidates. That's the topic we need to talk about. That regulates this point 3. The basic courts will compete with each other, lobby, whose candidate will enter the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Perhaps the candidate who gets support at the session of all judges, for example, the session of the basic court, is not the best candidate. Perhaps he has been proposed by a session of the basic court by some arrangements within that court, perhaps pressure from a directly higher court or president of a directly higher court. This is a very serious topic, these are the right choices. I wouldn't want this discussion to go away so that the court's public isn't presented to face the right elections. We're going to have a competition, we're going to have lobbying, we're going to have discussions and arguments between basic courts in Serbia, too, and between senior courts, whose candidate will be at the High Council of Justice, etc. We are entering into the essence of this proposal, which is not at the level of what Mr Krasic said was intended to characterise this provision. No, but we tried to say that candidates, judges, can only get support from their colleagues on the basis of their expertise and competences, their biographies, to get into the process of running and trying to get support, not only from their own court, but from all courts, and thus succeed in becoming members of the High Council of Justice. Perhaps one candidate of the basic court will get support for a member of the Council, from several basic courts, not just his own. This will show that his knowledge, expertise, competence, the number of confirmed decisions based on statistics made by the Supreme Court and the Ministry, for which they have the knowledge of the judge of the basic courts, and that he has the support and understanding of ten judges from ten basic courts. This topic, which we will discuss in some of the other amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, speaks of one serious matter. This law must very precisely regulate the rules of choice, as we have laws governing elections for MPs, elections for committees, and this cannot be regulated in a detailed way by the sublegislative act, and this law on the High Council of the Judiciary must be precisely governed by electoral rules for this body, not by the rules of procedure and election commissions, and by the public, and by the National Assembly it is elected by such a significant body of justice, which has the highest, right, rule of law in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8479	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. There are eight minutes left for your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I spoke about the ingenuities or powers of Parliament, the issue of selecting the holders of judicial functions must be a priority over all the priorities when it comes to the judiciary. I don't have any confidence in the High Council of the Judiciary, because it won't be an independent and impartial institution. It will be the political outpost of the ruling coalition, which will determine and run its candidates, its members who need to carry out the selection and who will decide who will be the judge today and who will be the prosecutor. It's lustration, I say again. This should go back to work. I was also talking about the Society of Judges a moment ago. I do not dispute, everyone has the right to join the Constitution, but the Society of Judges cannot attack Parliament and the MPs. He was not given authority, nor is it possible to do so in the future. I recommend that if they think that they are attacking Parliament and MPs and giving various statements in electronic and printed media, they should go from the judiciary and join a political party, they should establish an association in which they will act as free shooters and as a free profession. I also have to say that the Society of Judges contributed, because it pointed to the numerous gaps that were in the draft of this bill, but what was announced yesterday in the print media and what it passed on to 'Politics', is not allowed and I condemn, it is unacceptable. Judges and prosecutors will not accept, nor approve, that their Association, above all, is more concerned with politics, rather than with what they were founded for. I note, they have contributed to a number of members, as a particular solution, being installed in this draft, but they are not given the right to deal with politics. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about justice, we need to pay special attention, because justice is justice, not everyone can share it. Justice can only be shared by good, professional, smart, honest and responsible people, who will not be biased, who will succeed in resisting any political personality and pressures committed to courts. I'd like to ask one question now, but from another angle. I would like one official statement from the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court on two cases that took place in Serbia a few years ago. First of all, what happened to the case in Ojak when the judge was killed in the courtroom? What was he killed for? What were the motives for someone pulling a weapon to kill a judge at the District Court in Ojak? There's supposed to be an official announcement. The investigation was conducted, the perpetrator was deprived of liberty, a criminal case was conducted, but the public should be informed of the motives and reasons that forced this man to kill the judge who acted in the execution proceedings when the killer's house was being sold. What are the motives for killing the President of the Municipal Court in Književec? I ask and ask the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia to inform the public - who had reason, but not an ordinary reason, but enough reason to plant a bomb on the door and under the car of the President of the Municipal Court in Knjižvac? These issues must be made available to the public. We need to know what's behind it. We haven't had that in the past, at least as much as we remember you here, from 1945 to today this hasn't happened. There must be a question of responsibility for the holders of judicial functions. Their responsibility is great. Their rights are great. The holders of judicial functions, both judges and judges, have the highest power in the state. When I say they have the highest authority, it's the judge who can sentence 40 years in prison. Who's got that? There's no one here. It's a privilege. It's an honor. But the judge must be independent in his work and his work. What kind of independence this is about, I'll talk about it a little later, in particular, on the next amendment. I will also talk about whether we have an effective judiciary and to compare our judiciary with some countries in Europe, i.e. on our continent, in Anglo-Saxon countries where continental and Anglo-Saxon law is applied, so let's see how many judges the state has, let's see how many lawsuits, how many criminal proceedings, how many execution proceedings. So, a little bit later, I'm going to say something about that, to add some more facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8481	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Cosic, since Madam Minister is currently absent, I can tell you that my amendment intervention does not hurt. If you accept, everything's fine. As for the amendment submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic, you will have a headache whether to accept it or not. If you don't accept it, you'll face major problems, and if you accept it, there will be problems again. Article 23 regulates the conditions of running. Otherwise, 19 members of this law on the High Council of the judiciary are dedicated to selecting members of the High Council of the judiciary. Everything is there, and what colors will be ballots and who will be in permanent and who in the expanded composition, and how many to how many polling stations will be opened, but there are no criteria for selecting members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. On Article 23, your concept of reforming the justice system, if you want to be realistic, falls into water, is unsustainable, and MP Zoran Krasic said that this could be done in a better way, based on these three members of the Constitution that foresee the High Council of the judiciary. Which is why you, Madam Minister, are indifferent to these amendments which are submitted to Article 23 of this Law – that is because you will not be able to execute the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, but it will work; we have not elected all 15 judges of the Constitutional Court until today; and the Constitutional Court is working. Now let me start with attitude one. So this member has six views, each position is subject to an amendment, because there are objective reasons for that. The first position of Article 23 states: "A candidate for the election of a member of the Council of Judges may be any judge in the Republic of Serbia, who has served as judge for at least seven years. ''The DSS has submitted an amendment to this member and says – that all those who have permanent judicial office can be elected as members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I understand that as a legitimate right not to make a difference between active and passive law. If someone is elected judge and bearer of permanent functions, he automatically acquires the right to be offered as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. The amendment was submitted to increase the working experience from seven years to ten as a condition, and it was reasoned that there should be a longer period of time for working experience in order to successfully perform this function, and it is indeed acceptable. I have a little argument here against the DSS amendment, which is not in line with their amendment, which is that every judge, however, doesn't have to be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because we just said it was "top, brother". So the High Council of the Judiciary is a roof in the judiciary. Since it is provided for in Article 13, "top, brother," what is the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary? Yes, indeed, it chooses and resolves judges, to propose to the National Assembly the choice of the President of the Courts, to propose to the National Assembly, the truth a little illogically, candidates who first choose for judges, and that I choose judges. I find it a little interesting, there is no Mr. Mikovic, he usually stays here while Mr. Jojic exhibits and writes notes, but sometimes he comes out. He went out to intervene, on the basis of the Constitution, on the amendment submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, I certainly do not dispute him, as the MP has the right to do so, but I'm surprised where he's been for a little while longer when we said that the judge's office is permanent, because it's so according to the Constitution. Then, the High Council of the Judiciary has no possibility that those who have already been elected as judges should be re-elected, and should intervene against the laws that provide for it, and above all, the Law on Judges and Article 99. The amendment to this article was submitted by our fellow MP, Sladjan Mijaljević, and the judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And just now, Mr. Zoran Krasic explained that three types of judges and judges and judges and the law apply to a small distance, and none of you intervened about that, and when there was one amendment to the SRS, well, then we showed up to protect the Constitution. And that's what needs to be done, but at every opportunity. We support all reforms in any area of social life, but not at any cost. Now, Mr. Krasic, you like to say "cheese is only free of charge on mousehunters, but then someone loses their head if they're waving that cheese," and we ran to get material and financial resources to get computers in our courts, and that's what we need, but the computers we could buy from the funds that separate Serbian citizens through VAT and other taxis and liabilities -- but no, we took it in our pockets. The freshest and best example, unfortunately, isn't the only one, is Nicole Tesla Airport. By saving these funds, we should have upgraded our courts, first of all, in a material and technical sense, to raise salaries to judges and employees in court, but to make their efficiency as high as possible and not to have citizens waiting for the end of the trial for five, ten, fifteen or even twenty years. No, we didn't do that, we ran, it wasn't even pre-accession funds, but some others and they now dictate the justice system in Serbia, and we can't implement it. I believe that you, Mr. Cosic, and most of the MPs, especially those MPs who deal with law enforcement, see that this doesn't lead to anything, that this isn't good and that we can't solve anything with these proposals. First of all, it was necessary, until the conditions for perhaps a more comprehensive reform of the justice system were obtained in our society, to clarify with those holders of judicial functions and prosecutors, who perform these functions in an unworthy way, who deal with other affairs, co-operate with the construction mafia, with someone else. Well, they were the first ones to be cleared up, so that would also increase efficiency. When we fix the situation in society itself, then we should change these laws. You are now calling on that if these laws are not adopted, that tomorrow there will be another course of dinars, that a white Schengen list will not be approved, and these laws will apply from 1 January 2010. It has nothing to do with what you in the media are calling on, visiting in the evening shows, or making statements to the written media. We only have a desire here for the laws we are discussing to be of interest to the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, not to satisfy your partners in the EU. It will certainly be one of three devastating ideologies for Serbian citizens, two we had in the last century, one in this one. It's not worth talking to you about. You will certainly not give it up, but these laws will crush you and point to all the problems we face in the area of justice. I have intervened in the position of Article 5 of this Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, where the bill states: ''Extremely from the position of the 3rd member, to obtain candidate status for the election of a member of the Council from the Order of Judges of the Supreme Court, the High Court of Cassation, the Court of Auditors, the Court of Commerce and the Administrative Court of Justice does not require a proposal for a General Session, or a session of all judges, but the status of candidates is obtained by application. ''I suggested that the 5th position should be completely changed, so it should read, ''To obtain candidate status for the election of a member of the Council of Supreme Cassation Court Judges, the High Court of Violation, the Court of Commerce and the Administrative Court, a proposal for a General Session is required, that is, a session of all judges. ''What applies to all other judges, to the basics, to the high court, to the criminal courts, of course also to the Supreme Court of Cassation, as the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, and to the Administrative Court, as the court of the Republic of Serbia. All courts are the courts of the Republic of Serbia and this division is unacceptable for us. By accepting my amendment, something will be improved in this proposal, and the amendment tabled by MP Milos Aligrudic more has indicated that it is completely pointless and that it is as unsustainable as it can be even with this amendment's intervention to fix and improve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8483	Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8484	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say only so that this amendment is very good and should be accepted, because it improves the text of the proposed law. Madam President, I'd like to ask you for an explanation, and I believe that in that sense you will make a just decision and ask yourself why. Namely, I ask a question and ask for a notice – why is the overtime of workers employed in the National Assembly not paid for a month in a month, but with a delay of three months? What did these workers, with such low personal incomes, experience discrimination when a clerk has a salary of 12,000 or a cleaning lady, which is unacceptable? This specifically refers to dactylobiro, stenobiro, printing and office, whose salaries are extremely low compared to all other institutions in the city of Belgrade. Will the person in charge of the National Assembly finally correct this great injustice? Why are such low amounts for these employees of the National Assembly, for which there is no fixed working time, and some of them have personal incomes of 12,000 dinars? I think this is inappropriate. We are not asking, nor am I asking this question for anything else, but because I believe that these people, who work on these jobs, are neglected and deserve to have their personal incomes leveled with the personal incomes of some in this city of Belgrade. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8485	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Mr. Krasic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8486	You just accused me of joking at the expense of the DSS amendment, but these are really humorous amendments. Of course, they're provoked by the fact that the bill is. When this left hand side adopts and the judges, and those who understand a little bit, read what the bill will look like, the judges will laugh even more, but later they will cry. These two amendments, Mr. Lapčević and Mr. Petkovic, are currently referring to Article 24. One amendment shall require erasure in Article 24(4) and another amendment to delete Article 5. Item 4 on the voting law states: "The judge only votes for the candidate on the list of candidates, i.e. a degree of court in which he performs his judicial office. ''Stav 5th says: ''A judge from the territory of an autonomous province, next to the list of candidates from Article 4, votes for the list of candidates for courts from the territory of the autonomous province. '"I think Cardellus would be disgusted by these things too. So I have to say for one simple reason, because the concept of selecting members of the working council is coming back. And then Tito, Tito. And after Broz. And after Boris - Boris. This is really embarrassing and embarrassing! Bruca and shame! Only provisions on the election list are missing here. The provisions on the name of the applicant are missing. There are very inspiring names, let's say it's Tomic from Kragujevac. He and nine colleagues could propose the eleventh, and that group of promoters could be called "we barely got together". Another group could be "Yoks." They are proposing a high-shrewd candidate and whoever wins those elections is only in a position to propose his name, and here he will sink. This election circus in court will only serve to make someone realize that they need to slap their hands on the table and say, "The zeroth composition" of the High Council of the judiciary is something permanent and it will cheer and dress. And to make a decision, he can't do it without a party. What parties? The yellow party that suggested this. The neocommunists, that's it! So this is where we're missing more provisions on the election campaign. I don't know how during the election silence they're going to be acting, they're going to have to campaign, they're going to have to, of course, separate the funds for participation and whoever wins the elections will have the opportunity to use proportionate budget funds, to compensate for campaign costs; they can be loaned to Banka Inteza for 50 million candidates Tomic, and when they achieve the result and raise the money from this they don't have to pay back, the 'Banka Inteza' can turn it into a long-term loan. Yes, Batic, it is an association of such a bill. Yeah, that's how it's gonna be, believe me, that's how it's gonna be. The New Sad Court Coconut, the Nis Court Couscous, the Kragujevac Court Couscous. How? So, a group of ten, we barely got together, we suggested that Tomic be a candidate. Well, probably, "Banka Intez" is for it to finance, they say we can finance everything, you can give a blank bill and contractual powers, because we're sure you'll win the election, use the budget funds, and then we'll get it back. Well, that's what experts are, Batic. Dude, that's the kind of expert you've got, you know, a frog who's seen the horses sweat and then he raises his leg. There, that's our trouble, that's what the Bank of Intect here is going to choose the area unit - the Bank of Intects from the judiciary. That's the operation. And these poor people are going to raise their hands and swear, our judiciary is safe, our judges' society is going to scream, they're going to get a little bit of support for that campaign. And where's the Supervisory Board to control the campaign? Of course, the answer is simple, when it is gone, the Supervisory Board, which is provided for by the Law on the selection of MPs for the control of the election and behaviour of the media during the campaign for the election of MPs, should neither be required for the courts, let the candidates be elected. And then this candidate, who was voted by 99% of the judges, say, that rank, and then Batic hires these friends of his, and he's got good friends, and I have to tell you, he's beyond our knowledge, he's waving papers, he's bringing papers, and he's saying he's being proposed because in this case, instead of being expected so much punishment, he's freed him, so he set this one free. Well, that Radulovic from Užica can come. Isn't that right, Veronica? For such lobbies, and not for that poor man in Babusnica who works, he barely achieves norm, he looks at the matter as soon as possible, whether he has mastered a regulation, to see the position of the Supreme Court, the district court, so that his case may not be returned, the poor man suffers. That's gonna be a regular voting machine. And Batic came in, presenting information about this Radulovic, Markovic, Petrovic, no matter who, works out a conscious part of the National Assembly, and that man is not elected a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, and what those judges have been doing for months, they have been campaigning for six months, as you said in the bill. There's been a campaign going on for six months, Dick, Mika, Laza, and then the flyers will probably go, and the SWAT team will go through the courts, and those who are the group that we're barely getting together to launder a little money, and then the tycoons will pick up, and then they'll pick up, and then they'll pick up. And what should the National Assembly be involved in your circus? This is not very funny, as I think it is, although many laugh about this, but so it will be, so it won't come back to life and go back to the high-level council of the judiciary that will cheer and dress, not only until the judges are elected, but in the transitional and final provisions, but a little longer. How long? Hold the water until the masters leave. It's a story. Then we should all swear that we are calling upon the decisions of the courts, that the judges decide on their own, that they are independent, that they are tried by the Constitution and the law, and that in the beginning you have made them do nothing by the Constitution and the law, and then why does it surprise us when the Supreme Court judge decides, the case goes to the office, comes out of the office in some strange room, changes the composition of the Council, fakes the signatures and goes to some other verdict, and the judge who was the president of that council to faint when he hears through the papers what the decision is, and she didn't even sign that decision. That's what our democracy gave us! That's what our democracy has given us, you're making a circus of everything and everything to be in a situation, however you turn, you have to go to the Democratic Party to make the right and fair decision. That's the whole operation. Mr. Batić, I had no intention of calling you, but if you found yourself called, then you could get involved in this debate, you'd better get involved in the debate because the left side is totally passive, here is essentially a political monologue. The speaker, the right side, the left side, so there is no Suzanne Grubjesic who bleeds for the effective work of the National Assembly. No Mrs. Hope Kolundji, probably changing pictures at the gallery. But no ideologist Srdjan Milivojevic, he probably advises Boris Tadic on long-range moves, you know. And I can't call Mr. Bozovic or Dragan Veseinovic now, I can't think of a Vukadinovic calling or calling you, no need to call you, you sit here, listen. I know it's hard for you, I know you're swallowing dumplings, but I know you can't understand these things, too, but you have to stay here so that the government is supposed to be present, and the government is present with 15 MPs of the opposition and the opposition with 50 MPs. The opposition likes to take pictures, the government takes pictures all day, this part of the government. It's our cruel reality. Tomorrow you'll read in the paper, again the Assembly has continued to demean the judiciary, with a lack of respect for the judge's function, all the worst will be, but it needs to be read, this should be published, that people see what you wrote, that it be a serious analytical article, not these frauds with the love letters of the Society of Judges. Every day they send us some letters, they're serious about something. They are the necessary crutches to support this concept of yours, but, of course, they count that those of the Society of Judges can pass, for others they don't care. That's it, there's no big science, there's no Supervisory Board, you're running an election campaign, "Banka Intez" wants to finance this, so you know, don't worry, there's only one writer enough to write that someone has been authorized from a group of promoters "we barely got together" and everything can go away. You can have receptions, you can have an English ambassador and you can invite an American, the campaign can be too serious. Judge, when you do this, everything can be, please, through all the courtrooms to get through the flyers, round the regular number, round the regular number! The court will not deal with the Constitution and the law, but with how to change the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8487	Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, you have more than three minutes if you want to talk about the amendment. Are you in the Rules of Procedure or on the amendment? About the amendment. You've got a little more than three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8488	I support Mr Krasic's amendment, and I am taking the opportunity, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, to address you behind this pay phone, because this is the only opportunity where we Serbian radicals can address, in addition to the media blockade that is present, you all know that these days, "mafijan poodle" Alexander Vucic is leading the hunt against my son, calling him a junkie. I sent a child to VMA today. He was at the VMA, the Poison Control Center, the Institute of Toxicology and Pharmacology, the Department of Toxicology Chemistry. So, in 28.11.2008, the number of protocols 4418/08 and finds, which I received in the afternoon, the head of the institution is Prof. Dr. Vesna, I mean Kilibard, not well seen. Report I got, all the results are negative in this report. Why am I speaking to you? I'm talking to you as a parent. We can here as politicians and political opponents to charge ourselves in every way possible, but as everyone is sensitive to children, so am I. I say to this speaker, what I meant to the children of Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, let it be to my son, an only child. So, I would never touch kids or think anything bad. But that makes Alexander Vukic, in the absence of counterargument on my charges, and I haven't even made 1%, and I repeat after this speaker, I will prove that Aleksandar Vukic is at the top of the political mafia, at the top of the pyramid. I'm gonna prove it, and one of us is gonna be wearing that pyjamas, that's a colorful suit that goes to jail. I would remind Mr Nikolic when we were together and we were visiting southern Serbia, the army, we had lunch, we hung out, he told us his experiences from various trips and campaigns with Prof. Vojislav Seselj and I remembered his sentence well, he said, "Brother Jadranko, who sinned about Vojislav Seselj, and many were wrong, something happened to them". [[Applause]] And he told me very seriously. So God's punishment has arrived. I don't want it to happen to anyone, but I don't want anyone's children to suffer for us, parents. So, to say that my kid's a junkie, that's a serious accusation. All the media is buzzing, they can't defend themselves against these media. I make a statement for "Justice," they release three sentences. I'll never make a statement for that newspaper again. It's a complete media blockade. (President: Time) I call you out of power to call yourselves to your senses and to let the other side go, so that we may face each other. Let's just say Alexander Wolf is a man, so he can go on a TV duel, although I'm nothing to him. If I don't prove on that show that he's a criminal, which is why I won't hide what I have, I'm resigning to all functions, Mr. Nikolic, but in front of the public and in the eyes of him. (President: Time) Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, since you are a decent woman and a good expert, a top expert, I have even heard this from Tomislav Nikolic, I will give you a copy of these analyses.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8489	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8490	Now you can see how the one they're touching is the one they're touching the family with, so you can apply it to, and when you're done with other people's families. Alexander Vukic never said your son was a junkie! Bring me a newspaper article that says that Alexander Vukitch accused your son of being a junkie. If he was involved in some criminal activities, that's what I read, but I never, ever knew why you were taking the kid to VMA, he didn't say that your son was a junkie. And what you remember when I told you about Vojislav Seselj, it's good that you remember, because many of you seem to be doing a bad deed to Vojislav Seselj. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8491	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8492	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm sorry that I've disrupted this work now, but I'm just going to give Mr. Nikolic a quick answer. I've been in the hospital for ten days, and I've been getting messages from our party people who are in touch with the people of Vucic who say, "If you say anything at the pay phone about Alexander Vukic, we'll hit your kid." I told them, it's this Vuja, the famous criminal, and Mr Nikolic said that it wasn't Alexander Vukic, you know, Mr Nikolic, you're an intelligent man, every Vucic's letter in all the statements, and we analyzed it when he ordered the texts, so we talked, in "Blach", in "Pres", "this is Vukic". It was written by the Wolf's hand, and this poor bastard was forced to sign. You know that, Mr. Nikolic, as do I. And now I'm going to tell you something else, you weren't that, in everything that's ugly and bad, he dragged you in. You'll see when I get the evidence. When I say he dragged you into what's negative, I don't use rougher words. Aleksandar Vukic changed Tomislav Nikolic. Tomislav Nikolic, in my opinion, was a decent man until four or five years ago. The wolf dragged you into those dirty things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8493	Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mrs Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8494	The Serbian is the emperor, except the president of the assembly is not the emperor for such insults as are heard, but it is a matter of the president of the assembly, what he expects of the assembly. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if you expect us to start fighting here, I don't think you're going to experience it, but the provocation is really big, and I'm ready to answer it in peace, but look, every patience has its limits, so think about it. So when you say that Alexander Vukic is a criminal, and for me it's one of the most honest people in Serbia, please, if you really have information about Alexander Vukic being a criminal, then you're committing a crime not to report him. Mr. Vukovic, I will never believe to you that he's a criminal because you're saying that. Who are you and I to talk about someone being a criminal? Papers, evidence, court! The man is guilty only when he's convicted. Until then, it was immoral and illegal for anyone, you have lawyers here, boast about their diplomas, say he's a criminal. These threats from the pay phone - I have papers, what do you keep them for? Destroy the SNS, discredit the vice president of the party. You say he's a criminal. What are you keeping? What are you hiding? Wouldn't you be proud if you could find out what's wrong about Wolfie, about me or about any of us? So I proved to you that Alexander Vukitch never said your son was a junkie. The fact that you recognize Vukic in other people's statements is your destiny and what you're all looking for in different statements. What else he said, he said, I admit it, but I won't allow it, like you wouldn't allow, to say of any member of the SNS that he's a criminal without bringing me evidence. For no second will any criminal be defended in our party, if there's evidence for that, so let's finish it once more. Neither are you criminals, nor are we criminals. You chose one time in politics, we chose another time in politics. You're left with funding and these 20 mandates that we're using. What's wrong with you guys? Just make your housekeeping available, just like it used to, and you'll have it all. If you spend this shit, so you can't complete it, then it's not my fault. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8495	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, first, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8496	Dear fellow Members of the People, I simply cannot resist, without calling on Article 104 not to respond to all that he has said for this speaker. Remember, Mr. Nikolic, what you were saying about Alexander Vukic, who and how he is infused in the media and has the opportunity to publish whatever he wants; and when he went to the kindergarten, and when he came back from the pub and with whom he had dinner. When the affair was opened about the apartments, when you were on the front page of the apartment you got from the state, then you said it was the Wolf's house. He's very powerful. It's this society's problem and it's a huge problem. You're on all the front pages, on the doubles, there you are, and Vukic is on "Fox" TV twice yesterday. Here, I challenge you to go out on a TV duel, in front of the public to cross arguments and talk about all the issues you have. Alexander Vukic doesn't have to prepare you, as he prepared you for Tadic. You can go out, you're a smart man, you have more experience than I do. If you have more cheeks, it will be confirmed by the viewers after that show. What are you afraid of? Why do you go out alone, one at a time, and talk about what you want? How honest are you, here, today we have a copy of the open items, some of our debt, Serbian Radical Party, TV "Avala" in the pre-election campaign of 5,773,000 dinars, and the contract doesn't say anything, or how much they need to broadcast, even the value of what it is, the agreed indicative value of broadcasting of pre-election advertising videos is three million and plus all of what else needs to be paid. It says – TV "Avala" undertakes to broadcast according to the proposed and agreed schedule, and according to the current price list and according to decision number 16, with an approved discount, some. Where is it? Where's that decision? Where's the price list? It doesn't say how much, what, at any price. Well, you've signed such harmful contracts for the SRS account. You say we have money. We can deal with you without money, and tell me, please, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, come out for this pay phone and tell me what you're offering to the citizens. You want Kosovo and Metohija and the EU – there is no room, here, the DSS represents this thesis for years. You want only in the EU - there's no room, here, and DS wants it. What's new for you to offer, "Adversaries"?- I'm sorry. Go out here and tell me what your ideology is, except for empty flossules... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Expensive suits and demode hairstyles. Absolutely nothing! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8497	Mr. Vukovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, just tell me which member you're calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8498	I won't answer my word again, Mr. Nikolic, you're telling me to present the evidence. To whom should I present the evidence? To whom shall I present the evidence of how much money Alexander Vukitch gets from this building here?- I'm sorry. Who?- I'm sorry. To whom, Mr. Nikolic?- I'm sorry. Some last name, Rakic. Mr. Nikolic, how will you react when I give Mr. Vukic proof that he has been brought home by someone 100,000 euros? Mr. Nikolic, to preserve the dignity of this home, here, let a simple and simple check be carried out – which of us is an honest criminal, let the ruling majority appoint a commission, let my house, my family, your house, the Wolf's house, the Wolf's family, I've been working since I was 18 years old, Mr. Nikolic, I've studied with work and I've had solid incomes, probably bigger than you in some companies in Belgrade, you'll see where I live, you'll see what I'm driving. And if I was a drug dealer, Wolf said I was a drug dealer, I'd be the strongest of you. So, let's go through everything. Mr. Nikolic, I'm telling you with my life, it may prove itself to me, and I may not be able to bring down the bill exactly how I got what I got. By the way, from the Parliament's salary, you're an MP, the Wolf has entered, as you know, innocent in the party, all of this to have what the Wolf has from the MP's salary, Mr Nikolic, is impossible?- I'm sorry. Please don't talk about it anymore. If you want, let your future coalition partners determine the people, let them come to me first, and we'll go to the Wolf, but no advances and no radicals. Let them make a report, and we'll look ourselves in the eye of who's honest and who's dishonest, who's in crime and who's not in crime! You can't get paid for what you and Wolf have! That's a fact. I thank you and apologize, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8499	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29. The amendment requires that the words "and incomplete" be added after the word "untimely". It refers to the documentation submitted by the candidate. The motivation of this amendment, for which I accept the explanation that I have received, but I want to say, is that these elections for the High Council of the judiciary must be given special importance to the candidates precisely by the fact that candidates who are elected to the High Council of the judiciary 'and timely and complete' will submit their documentation to the electoral process. So these are people who don't participate in simple elections. It's not an election for the local community, it's people who need to be the roof of our judiciary. The roof of our statehood. At least they are expected to have both on time and full documentation to be presented in the election process. This is a complete reform of our judiciary, and I think this amendment is possible and acceptable, because even a whole member could rephrase a little differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8501	Thank you. Mrs. Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8502	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, the distinguished Minister, these days, and, of course, not wanting to turn away from the topic and not all members of the SRS at all, we do not want to interrupt today's session, however, we cannot remain deaf without looking back at what is our daily life and what is happening in Serbia, in particular in Belgrade. So, these days, we are witnessing the blatant behaviour of the Minister of Health, who, as Minister of Education, as well as the minister of justice, is preparing the fate of teachers and students of the private medical school. I know at least three families whose children are studying at the private medical school in Belgrade, with one child passing from the state-run Belgrade Medical Faculty to the same private university, and the other one from Skopje to a private medical school in Belgrade. In order to support all of this and to have as much true information as possible, I was with them, both at college and talking to students. They told me all the troubles and what they had to do, what conditions they had to meet to start this private college in Belgrade. Suddenly, when they came to the fourth year of college, the students closed the gates of Dragiša Misović Hospital and KBC, so the “Clinic and Hospital Centre” in Zemun and were prevented from continuing their studies, and of course the work of teachers from that private university was also interrupted. I have to point out that they do, and even when it happened, they had regular contracts on a commercial basis, with a year's notice possible. With the brutal action of the Minister and Dean of the University of State Medical in Belgrade, these contracts have been annulled. Now I ask you to listen to the explanation. The reason is that students who study in private schools have no right and cannot practice in state institutions, and the directors who signed contracts with this private university had no authority, were not in charge of it. Therefore, it follows, that our hospitals should then treat only those patients who are employed in state institutions, and these directors who have signed the contracts, who were not in charge of it, immediately relocate and, in fact, relocate, because of the excess of official powers. Of course, they didn't overstep their powers, they made good contracts for those hospitals. Here, in this documentation, in the papers of this private medical school you can see, in fact, in the papers of the Ministry of Education – that this university was regularly founded, that he had the right as well as other universities and that there was no legal basis to cancel these contracts, which were made. It's documented, it can be checked, I've got it on me. I suppose the health minister would even like to enter the Constitution – that there can be only one medical college in Belgrade, with its, say, thousands of employees, teachers and associates, some of whom serve to interrogate the children of their colleagues. Now, you know, to make absurd things bigger, that they've broken and left many students and professors on the street, or students of other private schools, say, I'm going to go from the Faculty of Drama Arts, the Academy, to practice, of course, in state, city theaters, whether it's "Belgrade Drama", "Southern Drama," "Atellier" or anywhere else. Furthermore, we have students from the private University of Stomatology in Panchev, who are also allowed to practice in state institutions. Of course, students of the private law school practice in state courts. It's a fact and it's something that's familiar to all of us. Milutin Milanković High School of Medicine has teaching bases at the "Clinic Centre of Serbia" and at the "Vojnomedicine Academy" and teaches professors at the same time at the University of State Medical School. So it's all possible. Madam Minister of Justice, since I have great respect and respect for you, I ask that the voice of the professional legal public undermines this discrimination of the right to education, to work and to academic freedoms. At this point, many students, they're trying to strike hunger, they're in the streets and they can't bring an end to studying at a private medical school. Justice must not be selective. That's why I called. The same conditions must apply to all. There's a brutally trampled right here, and it can't be allowed, because we can't have some kids, who tend to be doctors tomorrow, and they're all hearty into it, they have a good average, this way, the easiest way to say, well, let's cancel out and say that they can't go on studying, but they can move nicely to state college, so let's keep going. So we have the Minister of Health, who has been sitting in the chair for almost a decade, and is called on – that all hospitals since 1979, according to the Self-Government Agreement and the Social Agreement, have concluded a contract with the state medical college. Here, in fact, we come to the fact that monopolism should reflect quality, not competition. The Minister of Health doesn't want competition, he thinks monopolism is synonym for quality. What I liked last night in conversation with these students is, in fact, what's been prescribed somewhere, in a report from a private medical school, which is a rule that teachers' kids can't get a job at that college. It is an example of nepotism that is ruling at Belgrade's state medical college. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8503	Thank you. He has the word Vladan Batic. Here you go. There's a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, I suggest you consider the possibility – whether the proposed amendment can be accepted. When we discuss the Law on Judges, I have previously suggested that at the top of a judicial organisation or hierarchy, by definition, the President of the Supreme Court and that many of those questions, objections, suggestions, suggestions or criticisms referred to the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice should be referred to that address. And, I think the time when this law is passed, with the amendments that have been accepted, is a good time for Vida Petrovic Shkero to resign as Supreme Court President. I'll remind you what happened during her term of office, it's just a few reminders. At the post of Supreme Court President, her first statement was – that courts for organised crime and war crimes should be abolished. Admitted or not, these are the two most respectable judicial institutions in Serbia today. This occasion is even more famously her statement – that all judges can judge all cases. That's completely absurd. Furthermore, Mrs Vida Petrovic Skero will remain well-known for being sentenced to a long-standing prison sentence by the same court, the Supreme Court of Serbia, at the time she was head of a judicial organisation, i.e. at the head of the Supreme Court of Serbia. In her time, more judges across Serbia were convicted of crimes in the area of crime against corruption. Also, in her day they were abolized or amnesty, or allowed to become obsolete, to defamation of the entire public, against several church dignitaries, including Pahomi and Ilarion. In her day, the General Session of the Supreme Court even adopted objections to the warnings that the Great personal council gave to judges, who were acting or whose failures made the proceedings against the mentioned Pahoms and Ilarios obsolete. In her day, one of her deputies, and the deputy elects according to his own discretion, as a judge for missing the deadline, allowed six Albanian terrorists to be released. Her second deputy acted in the Ilarion case, but she would like to preserve the existing state. It also encourages people from the Society of Judges and from some other judicial institutions to raise their voice against the proposed set of judicial laws. History repeats itself. She did all that six, seven or eight years ago. She took the biggest shit when we pointed out the failures of the Fourth District Court judges in the Bagsy case. For the SPS gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, well-intentioned, should check the role of the current Serbian Supreme Court President, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero, in writing the Regulation that Slobodan Milosevic was extradited to The Hague. There were convictions on this one, on that one, etc. Let's see exactly, the team about who did what. So, just the truth to the sight. Therefore, I ask Vida Petrovic-Skero to resign. The new law on judges is a good time for such a gesture, that it no longer helps the judiciary, because under its patronage and under its management it fell to the low branches. She allows herself to say that the judiciary is in agony, that it is ruined, but she does not think of, if not subjective responsibility, then, in principle, objective responsibility, to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8505	Thank you. Is anyone else reporting on this amendment? (No) The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Palalic, then Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8506	Dear President, Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is on the verge of today's debate on the fact that elections for the High Council of Justice will be held. This is one newspaper that has caused quite a number of controversy in today's debate and has pointed to a number of contradictions and shortcomings in this proposed law, especially when it comes to the procedures for running, electing and determining the results of the vote. Through our amendments, during today's debate, we have pointed out the fact that in the judiciary for the first time elections, that all judges will participate in these elections and that the result of these elections should be the formation of the High Council of Justice, with all those powers defined and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and which are discussed in this bill, which we are discussing today. This amendment wants to draw attention, regardless of the government's reasoning for reasons of refusal, that, in addition to the fact that we have electoral legislation when it comes to elections for MPs and that the laws define the procedure in detail of how elections are conducted, and, let's say, the Law on Local Elections, where precise rules are defined in the way the elections are conducted, in order for the public to be transparent, in front of the participants of the process everything would be defined in accordance with the law and no great space would be left for sublegisl acts and various other general acts to discuss the matter. The law is that as far as possible – in this sense, it is also a proposal that, as with the election of MPs, the entire election process in the judiciary, which should lead to the election of the High Council of Justice, be carried out in a way that is common and where the procedure is common. Where, in fact, everything provided for here in this bill – by the electoral committees, the role of the electoral committees, the total number of judges who participated in the election process, since we know that all judges participated, how many voted, how many non-useful, unusable ballots, to be transparent notaries, that these records, as with all other elections, are marked in a visible place so that all participants in the process can see it. That's the thing that's going to be faced by the authorities that are going to conduct this election. For the first time, we have one serious procedure and a serious election race within the judiciary. We haven't had it so far. I'm convinced that everyone who understands what this is all about realizes how serious this thing is. Political parties participating in the political game know the methods and ways of campaigning. There are rules that all of us in the political struggle have been building for years, which have now led to the political struggle and political campaigns in Serbia, to the greatest extent, passing without major objections. Now we are entering a procedure in the judiciary where judges will face running, lobbying, believing that they are the best candidates, that the best can perform such responsible and significant functions as the member of the High Council of Justice. This amendment proposes that the Rules of Procedure or any other acts of the High Council of the judiciary or of the Commission, which the Council will establish, should not be left to further elaborate this procedure. We believe that because of the sensitivity and importance of this topic, it must be defined in the law on the High Council of the judiciary. The aim is to ultimately obtain the composition of the High Council of the Judiciary, which will manage the judiciary in a quality manner, which will carry out all those responsibilities that should be established under this law – mutual trust with the judges who have elected it, that these trusts do not fail, that those promises that the candidates make to the judges in the application process and in the election process are realised. Oh, no, as in some campaigns, they promised 200 thousand jobs, big jobs, and now the ministers promise us that we may not be hungry, barefoot and anything else we listen to these days. It's not safe either, that we may not be hungry, naked and barefoot. So, from those big promises, it comes down to hunger, nudity and people who can be barefoot, because it's such a difficult financial crisis. The point is that the High Council of the judiciary should be chosen, to ensure quality, to ensure transparency, to ensure that there are no objections and to get judges who, in the best possible way, will represent and exercise judicial authority. Most importantly, the High Council of the Judiciary is the highest authority of the judicial authority. In this factual sense, he implements this policy and it is good that the solutions to the formation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the solutions in the Constitution form this body, and therefore it should be truly quality and establish the true trust that judges expect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8507	Thank you. Mr. Jojic has a word on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8508	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the messages sent by the MP, Mr Batic. It takes few people to hear about this, and in terms of the whole, Serbia's judiciary. Secondly, what counterpart Palalic has suggested, to change the provisions of this article, is quite all right. Gentlemen, when you approached the proposal of this law, I'm surprised how it was possible for such members and provisions to be foreseen and I've normized the choice of members of the High Council of the Judiciary. Neither Kennedy nor Bush, nor any president in these large states had a prescribed, like this, campaign, as foreseen for the election of members of the High Council. This is even more extensive and raised to a larger pedestal than an English crown. This is bigger than the Crown Council. See how many of the members' provisions are prescribed by the election procedure itself. Mr Krasic said, and he was right – there was only a pre-election campaign left, to be public, and secondly, to determine impartial observers, and preferably, from the NATO Pact, but not to pass Sonja Licht, or Natasa Kandić, or Mrs Biserko, so that Cesid would not accidentally bypass and avoid the famous electronic and printed media, which had already prepared the campaign and provided significant material resources for this campaign, so that it would be successful, comprehensive and that it produced good results. What Mr. Todorovic said, he is a great acquaintance of this -- don't accidentally forget the tycoons, they will be offended, they will be surprised if they are not included in this significant, large, international venture that is being prepared in the Republic of Serbia. So much for the amendment. Now I would draw your attention, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, to allow me to present only one parallel case law, which refers to the efficiency of the judiciary in some countries, to compare closer to how we will have an effective judiciary and how we now have an effective judiciary, and I am saying that for reasons that many of our citizens cannot exercise their right to live. Many die when a lawsuit is launched, because they can't wait for that court's decision to resolve, or even the heirs to the case for years, because, as legal followers, they take over, to achieve, as followers and heirs, a certain right, whether statusally, was inherited, personal rights that are inadmissible, but those who are portable – yesterday I said that I had the opportunity to see two cases, one, where 19 years of litigation, for ordinary damages, and the second, 20 years. Let's see our zombies, what our zombies do. Ladies and gentlemen, the length of the lawsuit in Germany depends on the instance and the region, but on average, in the municipal court, 80% of the cases end within eight months. What, what, like, a year? Twenty years? How many months does it take for us? Although there are differences, for example. Stuart, with the fastest courts, has an average of five months of litigation, and Hamburg 11 months. In district courts, three-quarters of the proceedings last between 11 and 14 months. The duration of the proceedings in Bavaria, research since 2002, the municipal court – 3.7 months ends in a percentage of 83.7% of cases, solves in less than six months, and 95.5% in less than 12 months. District court 3.7 months, county court – 6.4 months or 68.7 cases solved in less than six months, 87% in 12 months the county courts resolve. A senior district court solves cases, 6.3 months in 66.5 cases, less than six months, and 90.9% in 12 months, even less. What's unknown about us in the judiciary, although it's applied somewhere, in certain cases and in our case, but very little, is that the judge is an individual. In Germany, France and England, a large number of cases are solved by an individual judge. And with us it should be on this one, and with us it should be, let it be, acquired, traditional, value, to take over from some country of parallel law, which can reduce the number of judges, but to speed up solving cases in front of competent courts. Ladies and gentlemen, how do some decide to put themselves above the court? I would draw your attention, it's about the Supreme Court of Serbia and an institution that doesn't have a long history with us. This was published in a book, believed to be the largest in a series of scandals, concerning the functioning of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, which took place on 10 July 2007, when the Serbian Supreme Court reached a verdict in respect of the RTL lawsuit and seven other radios and TV stations that did not receive a permit to broadcast. Although such a decision by the Supreme Court does not also involve an automatic amendment to the RRA Council's decision, the court only finds by law whether, when making decisions, respected legal provisions, members of the Council reacted inappropriately to their function and brought a number of charges to the highest judicial authority in the state. How and who? Council Vice-President Aleksandar Vasic openly accused Serbia's Supreme Court of Corruption and said -- after the latest pressures, I can, pressure, I can (twice) publicly announce that as long as we are president and deputy president of the RRA Council, Nenad Cekic and I, RTL, precisely because of violating the Radio Diffusion Act, will not get permission to broadcast the programme, no matter what the Serbian Supreme Court ruled. It is unclear how many millions of reasons RTL has prepared in its lobby for obtaining a permit to broadcast programmes in Serbia has affected this verdict. Regardless of millions of reasons, Serbia's Supreme Court cannot issue a license to broadcast the RTL programme. In addition, Council President Nenad Cekic estimated that Serbia's Supreme Court decision is a school case of coup in political theory and practice and urged the president of the court, Vidu Petrovic-Skero, to resign if there is any judicial honor. Representatives of the Supreme Court of Serbia reacted sharply to such charges, in a statement released on July 13th 2007. It has been explained that the same individuals from the RRA Council have several times laudedly and irrevocably assessed the decisions of the Supreme Court of Serbia, that they are not worthy of their functions, and that their actions degrade the court and call for non-compliance with the law, thus irrevocably undermining the state system. Finally, the following is pointed out – such behaviour by the president of the state body only fuels the aggression of citizens who are unhappy with court decisions etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I wanted to point out to both the professional public and the National Assembly, and our citizens and our courts, to give a warning to those who dare to disrespect, no matter what the objections are - no one has the right to disrespect the highest legal institution in this way and that court decisions are not respected! In this country, and we are a state, but if we're going to be a legal state, we have to respect the court's decisions, because we believe that the court's decisions are equal to the law. Therefore, no one has the right, such as these people from this institution, to attack the judiciary like this, and thus prove that the powers in our society, or Serbia, can still influence the execution of judicial decisions and also the adoption. I'm also suspicious of making these decisions. Our judiciary must experience glory. It has a tradition. The judiciary must be independent, the judge must be respected, as it is respected everywhere in the world. But that judge must also build his integrity, his authority, he must not be a chicken man, a matchmaker, and I believe that the judge is not a matchmaker, nor should he ever be, but cannot deal with matters that are incompatible with the court's function. Second, the judge can't afford to judge himself today, and next year, at the same time, a year, days to write the verdict. That's not a judge. Such a judge in the judiciary has no place, a judge who does not respect the law, which violates the law, and this is proven, Mr Batic knows it well, in a number of cases that have been brought against judges who have committed a crime, a violation of the law by a judge, we want to prove that we now want the rule of law, we want a good judiciary, but I am also to raise the judiciary to justice and to face justice before justice, which means that the choice is just. To guarantee everyone that there will be a fair choice and that no one will influence, but in practice, Madam Minister, you will have huge problems. You're the minister today, you'll bring experience from the Ministry. But one day, if you deal with another profession, you'll find a lot of problems. You'll see in practice what our courts do to us. We want a good judge, but we want the procedure to be as chosen as any judge, and one who enters the High Council of the High Court. The members of the High Council of the judiciary cannot be bypassed, and the dastollists experience selection and lustration. That's why the SRS won't support this law, because it thinks it's pure lustration. We are for removing those who are prone to corruption and crime, but to prove themselves and to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8509	The 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8510	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respecting the time we have spent on the analysis of the amendments, and what counterpart Palalic said in defence of his amendment, which refers to Article 33, and Article 34 continues on this article according to its legal action, I think it would be a good idea for both of these amendments to be adopted. First of all, because we would really do a much more transparent, much more visible process of choice and remove many doubts that, if everything is not pointed out, do not appear visible, sometimes occur during the election processes that take place. What's in the judiciary, and for which the judiciary is sensitive, is that visibility. If yesterday we advocated much of that amendment not to bring the judges, in a way, into the guillotine by allowing each person to launch an initiative to resolve them, then at least this part of the electoral process should have made it much more visible and much more transparent. This would significantly facilitate the election process itself, avoid many doubts that always arise in the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8511	Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8512	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, there is another law on the agenda that should reform our judiciary, but I'm afraid we will not reform our judiciary by this law. In addition to this my thesis, a large number of amendments have been accepted and submitted by the opposition MPs. Namely, to remind citizens of Serbia, which is the primary function of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The high council of the judiciary should appoint and dismiss judges in the future. This organ will deal with this problem. Otherwise, this authority will have 11 members, three by position, these are: the justice minister, the chairman of the Justice Committee, the President of the Cassation Court. Eight members are elected, first of all, one from the bar, one from the law school professors and six from the judges. We in this law have not seen the choice of members of the Bar Association, but you have left it to the Bar Association, we will not dispute it, it is your right. We also wanted to discuss this, but I remind you that today you have adopted an amendment, Mr. Jovan Palalic, which speaks of the judge elected to that authority having to freeze membership in the court where he worked, and we also expect the Bar Association to also determine in this way their member elected to that authority that this member has an obligation to shut down his legal office, because otherwise there will be a conflict of interest. Given the conflict of interest, I would explain to Serbian citizens on a plastic case. There is a possibility that a member of the Bar Association, i.e. The lawyer in that council decides on the discharge of a judge, the appointment of a judge, and, in fact, he has a case with that judge. This is the conflict of interest, and I expect the Attorney's Chamber to put the clause in its election Rules of Procedure that the member of his Bar Association, who is in that body, will be obliged to shut down his attorney's office. I have submitted an amendment to article 35 which speaks of a proposal from the judge's office. I suggested that it stands in Article 35 of Item 1 - "The Council makes a decision on a single candidate's proposal", and I put "three" candidates there, "with the highest number of votes", and the words "or more candidates" to delete, "with each list, on the basis of the record of determining the election results, which the Election Commission delivers to them. ''So, with this amendment, I wanted to solve this problem in such a way that each election list will have three candidates and that in one, fair, democratic struggle this assembly will choose, and that is its basic constitutional function to elect members of the Council, one quality candidate, and not, conditionally, only one, because in this way this assembly loses its functions, it only appoints, and the basic function under the Constitution of this assembly is to choose members. For these reasons, I expect you, Minister, to accept this amendment of mine and that, in the future, in article 35, it will have the word 'three' candidates, and that this word'more candidates' will be deleted. That's it, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8513	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8514	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it looks like we're tired, there may be 20 of us in this assembly, but, well, the citizens listen to us, they believe we'll pass some useful laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8515	Mr. Zivanovic, I'm sorry, 51 MPs have inserted a card into the parliamentary unit at the moment, simply for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8516	It's probably 51 MPs, but the cards are probably left in the benches. But, okay. If there's more, I apologize. I have to tell you something, back in 2001, when I came to this assembly, I got this book called Corruption in Serbia. What was I about to say? I wanted to rely on this amendment, which the previous speaker explained, I support and I think that the minister of justice should accept this amendment, because he is talking about corruption that is actually present. I'm going to tell you something about the preface of this book, Mr. Dragoljub Micunovic wrote a preface, a man who's probably the father of this new order, or I'm going to call him a new "yellow company, who's been trying, normally, to come into power, so in some way, you've used it to the five-octobarian revolution. What he actually said in the preface in two sentences, which is why he brings or writes this book about a situation that is present in Serbia. "As a social phenomenon, corruption is as old as society and is alarmingly spoken of and written when two conditions are met. The first is that there is so much freedom in the country that it can be written about. And secondly, when it becomes very masseous and it permeates all the institutions of society and state and interferes with the normal functioning of the legal and moral order. ''Now I ask you, this came out in 2001, did you want to write about corruption that was probably for you in some previous period. Here, further on, I must tell you, it's decadently described -- "corruption in the judiciary." Now I'm going to read to you how Dragoljub Micunovic saw the corruption that was present in the judiciary at the time, so you will probably be able to apply and see how corruption is today in the judiciary, and whether it exists at all. "We talk more and more often about corruption in the judiciary. The statements are general and casual, but still disturbing. In courts there's silence or whispers, but stories touch everything and they're more convincing. This was the reason why the Association of Judges of Serbia in March 1998 called a roundtable and prominent participants of fellow lawyers, experts, psychologists, scientific workers, etc. asked the question loudly – whether there is corruption in the judiciary. Although the debate on this issue was serious and warning, the stories remained nameless but also worryingly convincing. Besides, if there is corruption in society, why shouldn't there be corruption in the judiciary? There is a chance, therefore, that the virus of corruption has also affected the court. The judges they're receiving have already been called primarius. What can the primarius receive? All: money, apartment, gifts, choice in the high court, ministerial position, the president of the court has started a political function, roasted lamb or pig, lunches and dinners, various services, as well as any other property and non-eministic benefit. What can he give? There's no big choice - a verdict by order. Corruption in the judiciary is seen in the exchange of every wicked verdict for every wicked benefit. That means corruption, depravity, debauchery, seduction and bribery. '"What is further said about this great and vicious disease? That corruption is weeds and that's why it curses as soon as it creates suitable environments for its rise. This is why it is vital to answer the following question – what has created in our judiciary a climate so suitable for the emergence of corruption? First, the loss of independence in the moral sunflower of society, which rightly sacrificed violence, justice to interests, and the judiciary to daily politics. The fall was started by killing justice right, which became the will of the ruling class, and in the judiciary, which became a class institution. ''As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, and in yesterday's discussion, I've been presenting how much crime is present in this area called the judiciary, I don't need to tell you anything else, but this has probably been present since 2001, when criminal privatisation started in Serbia. Look, everything that's privatized, I have to tell you honestly, can be counted on the fingers that maybe two or three, maybe five percent honest and fair privatized, and what's left is all criminally done. You see, here he is still on the Privatisation Committee, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, a man who was minister of privatisation, and Cvetkovic was director of the Privatisation Agency. These are key people who have ruined Serbia's economy and left over a million people out of work. They're in high places today. Has anyone filed any criminal proceedings against these people's crimes?- I'm sorry. They're visible, and what's to say about those who can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, look, I'm sorry that Mr. Batic left, look, here's the best man in the hero suit, here's what the media are saying today, the press, "News", about the greatest criminal of the Serbian people, I can't say that the gentleman is, in fact, the greatest villain, Hashim Thaci. Now I'm going to read you what the press says about him. "Kosovo Prime Minister Hashim Thaci, a hero of Kosovo Albanians and a favorite of America, was a godfather from the German point of view, who was screened as a flexible politician," the German newspaper writes. The paper estimated that it was clear that Kosovo was covered by crimes in which former members of the underworld had made an amazing career in the political "establiscment", according to Deutsche Great. As you can see, the Germans began to write about those who made great sacrifices to the Serbs. They started talking, and they were among the first to contribute to the destruction of the former Yugoslavia, including the current SRJ, as well as the destruction and kidnapping of KIM, which is Germany. Now, when their intelligence found itself in KIM territory and, to put it this way, Germany's foreign policy began to be compromised, they appeared to be calling the biggest villains, Hashim Thaci, the man who shook hands at Skopje's airport with Boris Tadic without talking about many conferences where he and Boris Tadic were at. Then you can now make one parallel or difference between these people, between Boris Tadic, the policy led by Boris Tadic and the policy led by Hashim Thaci. Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that I thought that in these eight years, however, you would realize how many misdemeanors have been done and done to this country, to the citizens of this country, and most of all to that labour hero, whom I mention most after this pay phone, which is a peasant. Many peasants, thanks to you today, are located in courts or in courts, or are running certain houses. That's because you provided them with fruit material through some donations, like that happened in the villages of the Sword. About thirty villages in Machva, where the villagers took the raspberries, through some Dutch company, it was a fake fruit material, because when they were supposed to come to the family, the peasants had nothing to pick up. Now that the time has come to repay these loans, or they were donations; I don't know how you gave them that material as a loan, if it was donations to Serbia, it's donations to a happy peasant. You don't know how and how this Dutch firm is today, or it's the company of some tycoon of ours, who today wants to charge everything, just like these banks that were created in every city and in all of Serbia's territory. They didn't come here because they love Serbia, they came to Serbia's territory to get rich, because that's the only way, through these banks, these peasants, or our citizens and workers, can survive. As you can see, the peasant will return and where he'll return that loan he took, hoping for some improvement, hoping that the state will help him make some income, at least a positive income, so that he can survive, because that peasant household is actually a small factory. But don't lie down, it's nice to you, I see on your faces a smile, you have nice salaries, you have nice diaries, everything fits nicely, and about the peasant, about the village, about his torture, no one said anything, even to those peasants who receive such poor pensions, who are so much at the social level. Know that you've cheated on him many times, but the peasant has patience! The most dangerous thing is when he leaves, when he takes the hook and the hook and when he makes it all up to him, believe me, we won't be able to sit here nice, that it's nice here, where it's warm, where you keep us warm, where the steel and summer and winter. Understand once again, you can laugh, you young people don't know what the burden is and what pain it is, look, how many peasant households there are, you need to know what is done by the social capital of a country – as much as Serbia today has, the smallest percentage of poverty is right here in Belgrade, about 3.3%, and look south of Serbia, there is over 15%, and then you will see where and which way Serbia is going today. Understand me once again, this is one big, last warning, where really peasants and workers, especially now that you've frozen everyone here, or with this one of yours, to call it a flexible budget, which we haven't even seen yet, you're trying to raise salaries in many public enterprises again, and where you need to raise your wages, you haven't done it. Which is why you don't get into those social institutions that take care of the unsettled to see if you've stopped by to ask if they need help or how those who are users of these institutions survive. You see, murders happen, fights happen, it's all covered by some veil of secrets, so you realize that this is also this time Serbia is going under your path of destruction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8517	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras together submitted the 42nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic, vice president of the assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8518	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, the LDP has submitted one amendment to Article 42, which proposed that Article 2 and 3 of this article be deleted, for one basic reason, which is why we in principle represent one thesis, that there should be no expansion of the circle of those who can launch an initiative to withdraw the mandate of members of the High Council of Justice. It is quite enough to challenge this mandate itself members of the Council and it is absolutely unnecessary to allow that possibility to be granted to the promoters, or to other institutions, because it seems to me, Article. From 22nd to 37th of this law on the High Council of the Judiciary provide for a serious procedure in which members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are elected and appointed. Therefore, there are also some serious criteria that are foreseen for any of the judges, election members, or by lawyers to become a member of the high council of the judiciary. So it's not that simple to become a member of that institution. However, by allowing these proposings to challenge that mandate, we are absolutely trampling on some kind of independence of that high council of the judiciary. We leave the possibility that the one who proposed in the meantime will change his mind and take advantage of that privilege he has proposed, so he can now launch the initiative and challenge that membership. We are, in fact, attacking the authority and integrity of the High Council of the Judiciary. You will allow me to do so, however, as far as these judicial authorities are concerned, which directly decides which of the judges will be elected and appointed. He's deciding on such a serious question who's going to judge us tomorrow. They should be allowed independence and independence in their existence and drastically restrict the circle of faces, and institutions, which can challenge their mandates. That's how we give them one safety. We give them importance, dignity, integrity, and we just send a serious message that we really meant when we talked about independence and independence and the authority of the judiciary, which, with this set of laws, we mean to implement. Therefore, the LDP supports this set of judicial laws, i.e. this law on the high council of the judiciary. The amendment we have submitted, not for some advertising or beauty, but for the rationalization and improvement of that member, we propose that our amendment be adopted because it deeply penetrates the essence of this authority of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I don't want to bother you any further with some trivial subjects, but offered with serious life problems facing our country, our country, and our citizens, and these are the gatherings that are daily on the wallpaper and that appear on a chain. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although we have launched in this assembly an initiative to change the price, or lower the price of gas, we have not received a relevant response, nor have the competent institutions reacted, whose reaction would produce some results, or have not received the result that we have initiated, which we have asked for. The price of gas is still that. The price of gas is up. Since we are facing a difficult winter, while citizens are experiencing and waiting for these judicial laws to come to life, they must also name and survive this winter, we propose and advise citizens to launch initiatives and launch petitions in their local self-government, regarding the subsidies of gas and heating prices. The City Committee of LDP in Zrenjanin has done the same. The signing of these petitions is under way to subsidise the price of gas and heating in the city of Zrenjanin. Although it is a trivial matter in relation to these laws that we support and which we think are European, that are very important for the adoption and reforming of the judiciary, we, as LDP, are constantly drawing attention and stressing that life is what is happening and that it is a provision that should be the steering force of this Parliament. We should keep in mind and talk about the need for survival, for the normal functioning of citizens and life in this country to take care of what happens in addition to these serious efforts, as far as law-making is concerned, both in terms of prices and other burning problems. It seems to me very important, very important to this entire community. We must never forget that, even if we talk about laws. So again, I remind you that we have to do everything, and even if we are calling for people to make their efforts and their strength to come up with some result, and that seems to be the rest of us to appeal to this subsidisation by local self-government about the price of gas, and for the rest we will see. So the LDP supports this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8519	Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8520	There are currently three times as many opposition MPs in the hall as the ruling coalition, which shows how much the ruling coalition shows interest in new amendments to this bill, which have been submitted, which I am responsible for telling you that they are all deeply meaningful and that most of them should be accepted and considered certain changes to other system laws related to this area, in order to be harmonised. Unfortunately, as it always is, it cannot, nor can it always be, be the only topic in this assembly, so in this sense I react to Article 104 when it comes to the conduct of the opposition MPs and then the ruling coalition, and then to Articles 225 and 226. I have to ask again, and I can't get an answer, and the means of information can't make it possible for us, we hear different contradictory information -- do you know where your budget is? Which way is your budget? He's gone to Brussels. You obviously have a budget on your way to Brussels and will never come back from there, because you have one problem. Your problem is in the euphoric happiness that you are insinuating because you have managed to achieve that the state of Serbia is an accomplice to the abduction of 15% of the territory. What do you think this Eulex represents? Today you hear a European Union statement that welcomes the excellent co-operation of Eulex on the co-operation plan with the institutions of Kosovo, in order to build a rule of law. It is quite clear that Eulex has, apparently, according to the interpretation of the European Union, regardless of the text of Security Council Resolution, a single job – to carry out an independent state of Kosovo on the road. That's what's going on out there. Look at the State Department's notice. What do they point to? They point to Kosovo as an independent state and it's a done deal. What are we looking at? What euphoria have caught you? You're trying to sell the fog to the citizens. You're trying to explain to them that you've achieved diplomatic success. In what? If it had been luck and a good sense for us all to stick together to a single state policy, we wouldn't have had this problem, we wouldn't have had these kind of blows. Like this, the state is breaking up. For these reasons, ask your colleagues in the government, ask the ministers, ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic, why the government doesn't work? Which is why none of the pre-election promises that, first of all, the ZES had in the campaign, you can't keep? And not only that, why now, is Serbia's economy in chaos? Because this political creation, your government is not designed to solve citizens' problems. Let me see that budget! Let's see it! Where is he? Can someone in this country tell us where that budget is?- I'm sorry. What's the design phase? When will it be at the government session? The previous information is that it will be yesterday! Now it's information that there'll be next week. I'm just curious. We will deliberately ask that question until we see, when the budget appears here finally, when it is in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then we will see what kind of paper it is. Can anyone answer that question?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8521	Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word, too, to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8522	Dear fellow Members of the People, I advertise violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, violation of Parliament's dignity. So it's enough just to take a look at my left side and see that the ruling coalition MPs are gone. There are MPs from the SPS, and I commend it, but these others, and especially those who are dominant in this coalition, absolutely not. For what? Let them explain it to their voters. Since the formation of the new assembly, we have had the manners of the ruling coalition, and above all, the Democratic Party, to flee from this assembly. I don't know about such an example, but believe me, since 2000, this is a unique case of the government running away from the Assembly and any serious debate in this House. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about a budget that's not there. I'm sure the government will try to deliver the budget to us within 24 hours and force us to discuss it on committees, to give amendments, to get through as soon as possible, to say, or to bring us into a chateau that we can't adequately respond to that budget, but we will respond. After that, too, by means of a dominant political party, the Democratic Party, in this coalition there will be very aggressive pressure on the opposition, as we here, for God's sake, do not know what we are doing and how we are obstructing the work of this parliament. It's never been a situation like today, and the opposition has never been exposed to more attacks than it is today. But watch out, when the government attacks the opposition, then the red light turns on, there's something wrong in the country, and there's something rotten in the country. What is most rotten is that this parliament is running away from the most important topic we should discuss, which is Kosovo and Metohija. We've got some kind of government initiative, we've got a job done at the Security Council. I'm asking MPs of the ruling position, do you know what the deal is? You don't know. Inform yourself in the papers. But you're willing to applaud that and you're ready to believe the propaganda your parties are conducting on the media, where it's more like, I don't know what kind of diplomatic victory, and we don't know what it is, but now we're getting answers from the international community and the European Union that it's one co-operation between the European Union and Kosovo. This government, representing this country at the Security Council, has agreed to defend its sovereignty by agreeing to a mission that comes to a part of our territory being neutral. You have reduced Kosovo's defence to the principle of neutrality, and the worst part of it is not being discussed here. Suppose you're right, although you're disastrously wrong, that time will show. (President: Time. But suppose you're right. I'm done. Have the Secretary of Staff show up, have the Prime Minister come in last night and say he's not familiar with the details. So we know he's not familiar, but let the foreign minister come, let the President of the Republic come to discuss this matter in this House. In fact, it doesn't make sense that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to discuss it at the United Nations Assembly without having to discuss it in its own assembly. (President: Time. ( b) He who flees from his own congregation, apparently, is not clean, and evidently a great prank is hidden behind it. Time will show we're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8523	Mr. Krasic. Mr. Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure, right? I'm sorry, I just didn't hear it, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8524	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by art. 225 and 226, given that today I received an answer from the Prime Minister, to my parliamentary question that I asked at the National Assembly session on 14 October, and the parliamentary question was whether the state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija had changed. In response, there are various definitions of what can only be called policy outlines, and in fact, it is one wandering, de facto one discontinuity, with what the state of Serbia did in the previous period, when we all together in the National Assembly, with the largest number of votes, adopted and confirmed the unique position that Kosovo is Serbia. In this response, we received information that Serbia has asked the International Court of Justice to have an opinion on whether Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral declaration is contrary to international law, with an explanation that it is said here that it has a basis for our expectation that only the adoption of this resolution in the General Assembly will slow the process of further recognition of Kosovo's independence. Just a day after that, we saw that some other countries, Montenegro and Macedonia, have recognised an independent Kosovo. But what's most spectacular is that, as we say here, the acceptance of the Eulex mission stems from our political orientation for joining the European Union. ''What document, since we never discussed this in the National Assembly, was defined in the foreign policy orientation of the Serbian state that the acceptance of EULEX was in line with the orientation of the Serbian state towards the European Union? We are witnessing that today the European Union welcomed the co-operation of Eulex with the institutions of the false state of Kosovo to establish a rule of law in Kosovo and Metohija. We have a fact that it's literally entering the process of accepting what happened on February 17th and that this is one big fog that happened in the Security Council. I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia: "What state body has decided to accept the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija? ''If the Government of the Republic of Serbia made such a decision, and we do not know, it ignored the fact that over 70,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were against accepting the Eulex mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8525	Mr. Krasic has a word on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8526	We're talking about all of this in a slightly different way, because if we talked like this, we'd get warnings, but we're taking the opportunity to make some parallels and some other style figures, so that the public in Serbia can figure out what it's all about. We are dealing with an emergency procedure here under the draft law, which will start to apply on 1 January 2010. Let me just say, from G17 plus there's not one, counting the money. Susana Grubjesic is not here, she cheated on the viewers so much last night, talking about how important this law is and how much of a prerequisite it is for the fastest time in the European Union. I watched last night, Hope, that's what happened, believe me, that's what happened. There's no G17 plus, counting the money. They take passports and prepare for organized abandonment of the country. Yeah. I'm also suspicious that there isn't a close associate of Boris Tadic, called Srdjan Milivojevic, who probably got pretty hot on his cell phone today, just held his cell phone in his ear for three hours and talked, talked, you know, his ear red, wanted to hear some things. There's no need to listen, or listen to what Ms. Marina Ragus or Elena Christmas-Talian said, or this morning what Mr. Todorovic said, or what these people at the DSS said, you're all informed, you all know what's going on. Now I'd like to return to this amendment of Mrs. Judith and her friends, which has some reason to believe that this would be a serious concept. Just to remind you, it's about who can take the initiative to get rid of some member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Of course, the promoters view this tripartitely: who can propose a choice can also submit an initiative to resolve, all in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, choice, and resolution. Now we're in the field of resolution. Why has the proposal been defined for this system? Because this system is already in practice checked. You are young, inexperienced, to be informed. When the NBS Act was passed, it was decided that there was also a NBS Council, so the question was how to choose and resolve the governor and member of the Council. Then it was done this way. It's a French radio-television, closed system. You can take the initiative, the council will assess whether the conditions are met, so if they determine that the conditions are met, then it goes to the National Assembly. The Justice Department has gone one step further, but they've made such a funny situation in all variations. So the variant that this member has three positions, the variant that this member has only the first position, has the exact same result, is the same effect, and that, Mrs. Judith, has nothing to do with dignity, independence, independence and the quality of the work of judges. Here's why. If someone, according to this concept of theirs, comes from the authorized and initiates the initiative, within the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to resolve any of these functions, which, by chance, results in fruit and comes in a phase of formulating the proposal at the level of the Council, so the proposal comes to the National Assembly for a vote, it is very likely that the motion for a resolution does not go away and that man remains in the High Council of the Judiciary. Then this creates a problem with the first member of the high council of the judiciary, which is a member of the office – the minister of justice. This can create great discomfort with another member of the High Council of the Judiciary, let's say, Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the National Assembly's board of directors. This can create a problem and a great dissatisfaction and a third member of the Supreme Judicial Council in office, which is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. That would be in these zero variants: pu, pu, Vida Petrovic-Škero. This can also create dissatisfaction with experts, a member of the High Council of Justice who was elected at the proposal of Serbia's oldest law school. It's a formulation from the bill, and probably from that member who was elected on the Serbian Bar of Lawyers proposal. What kind of situation are we gonna have? The Council laid down, proposed a resolution, the National Assembly did not resolve it, he returned to the High Council of the Judiciary and stood as a permanent source of all hostilities in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary. Problem. Furthermore, to take the case of Batic, it is possible to conclude a 'gaitan book', a thousand and a few pages, an analysis of the work of the trial of the judge concerned, who became a member of the High Council of the judiciary, so he's engaged in his intelligence service and learns some more details about the handling of cases from the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice and the participation of the judge concerned, who passed through the judicial elections, means, draw up the book, launch the initiative, and the High Council of the Judiciary says, "The crows of the eyes do not take out, the respected fellow judge must remain." The initiative was deadened, it did not come to the stage of the proposal, and then, for many reasons, Vladan Batic, Petar Jojic or some other lawyer launched a campaign through the media, because our media should be transparent, so that the public will know all the details of "who hairs and who brings water" in that high advice of the judiciary. So the High Council of the Judiciary is permanently stained. I wouldn't be surprised if the skilled lawyers, when they write complaints against the judgments of some judges they make, among other things, wrote that they doubt the professionality, independence and independence of the court in that case where the bion is. The judge, because the judge, among other things, chose a member of the High Council of the Judiciary, for which the initiative existed, but crows did not take their eyes out. These are all possible situations, but if this concept of law remains, it has to be real, real situations in the area of justice. For what? Because you accepted a concept called the circus. We used to joke a little while ago, but you choose them by reflecting it as a election for MPs. You have left out the provision of how many polling stations are open, whether voting in court on Sundays or Saturdays, whether they will have an extended composition, given that there is a possibility of someone proposing, what to do with the protection of the court's electoral right when they choose a candidate, whomever time they write an appeal, what happens if the appeal is adopted, so there should be re-elections at the polling station in the court, the court and that one, and then someone finds that there was some forgeries. Does this mean that this courtroom is permanently becoming an exterior area, that no one ever judges in that courtroom again because, when the candidate was set up for the judge, there was a falsification? From who? By the judge. These are all possible situations, and given how this political life works with us, these situations are inevitable. Of course, I left as a real treat and famous Sam Lazar, legal advisor to the American Embassy, who will have to observe these elections. Cesid has to watch the election, see if he has any observers. It is likely that B92 will organise the monitoring and turnout of judges in the polling post, unfair campaigns, illegal campaigns, during the election campaign, someone provided information about the judge's personal life. Anything is possible in the direction of a circus called DS. Why, people, that concept? Leave something to survive after you. Don't ruin everything. Guys, leave something! You can't intend to close everything. Hard hearts make a joke on this subject, so the audience understands what's going on. That's our problem. How will someone accept being a candidate under these conditions? No honest judge will say, "please, I've seen what you wrote, I won't be the subject of a circus, let me go to my courtroom and work there, if there's anyone against me, let them lead the procedure, what I'm going to do with this mess in this business." It's all coming back to that zero composition of transitional and final provisions. Further than that, you won't be able to go according to this law. That's the problem. These two or three constitutional provisions that regulate the High Council of the judiciary have some kind of indetermination, but based on what is written in Article. In 153 and 154, you can see the intensity, the spirit of the one who wrote the Constitution, what he meant when he proposed such provisions. Spirit, that intensity is not present in this law, and that's a big problem. She's not present, and that's why this is going to be the case in the judiciary. I have to distract you. Furthermore, not to touch Batic, but he praised the Court for War Crimes and Organized Crimes. Imagine, a polling post for the election of judges in the war crimes court and organized crime. Isn't that an insult to the judiciary? Those men in custody will laugh, these judges will choose each other, spit each other out, each will be a representative of an interesting lobby, each of them will be a representative of an interesting lobby. Those who guard these who are not MPs so that, kobajagi, they are still MPs, it is one very important lobby, and on that lobby account and DS. An interesting thing will be to make this kind of choice on the territory, for example, Kosovo and Metohija. There must be at least one judge, as you have now adopted this amendment, from the territory of a court of some autonomous province. We have two autonomous provinces to choose a judge, which is why you have prepared this new organization. You have transferred everything to Kosovo Mitrovica, all of Kosovo and Metohija. What laws do they apply? What are they applying? Nothing. You've been assigned to destroy the country, you're doing it, you're trying to make it look like you're doing it with dignity, and you're full of the words of the European path, the European Union, but, people, the European Union is stealing our kiM. It's not KIM China, India, it's the European Union. Please, who beats your kid in the street, well, you're not going to have coffee with him. Report him to the police or get as far away from him as possible. You've got the situation, this guy touched the button, started the bombing, killed our kids, and you're running to them at the coffee shop. What do you need to tell them while you're drinking coffee? You killed a little bit, it needed more. You created a mirage with the citizens. All European, European, only European theft can be and nothing else. European lies, there's no G17, here's only the one from Nis, bananas, he's the director of the City Construction Directorate, according to the labour contract, and he's not in a working relationship. How can he sign something?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8527	Mr. Krasic, it's been 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8528	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8529	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8530	Art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I have a Prime Minister named Cvetkovic, and I'm not sure he's exactly the Prime Minister, as it says, I think someone else is doing it, a set of questions, in these three minutes. First, where are the passports and visas promised by January 1st? When are we going to enter the Schengen area on the white list and when are we going to get visas once? There's nothing from that, as far as we can tell. Secondly, what about a thousand euro free shares? When's that gonna be? Maybe Kristo took some of that to Germany, since JAT can't be sold either, apparently, that only the public enterprises negotiated by the DSS in the previous government can do well, what's on you, it's a disaster. What about pensions? That's why you made the government. You promised 70% of the average profit, you raised 10%. Otherwise, when you promised the euro was 76 dinars, and now it's 90. You know what you can do with those 10% and those increases you can do. Speaking of which, is it true, too, that the Prime Minister replied to me that half a billion euros were spent in just a month to calm down that course? Kostunica's government has made foreign reserves, and now you're splattering it, it's the only real expression for your behavior. Where 201,000 new employees are, since you promised 200,000 jobs, 1,000 people have lost their jobs in the meantime. And we'll ask you where 15% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is. You're talking, you're making a campaign, and you think you're gonna make it spin that Eulex story, it's none of it. Where's your new budget? Is it true that the new military budget will be drastically reduced? Is it true that the Minister of the Army is rebelling? Is it true that now that NATO has started together with Kosovo authorities to build Kosovo security forces, which is contrary to Resolution 1244, and we have made a decision on military neutrality, you are reducing the budget for the military, and the Chief of Staff says another 3,000 troops are needed? (President: It's been three minutes) No problem, I'll finish, we'll wait for you at Eulex, remember, we'll ask for the resignations of all of you, and the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic when the first ruling is passed by the judge by the laws of the so-called the countries of Kosovo. When the first man EULEX police officer arrested, the first citizen of the Republic of Serbia, under those laws... (President: Bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... Remember, Albanians are also citizens of the Republic of Serbia – so you can hide them in Albanian environments, these are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Đakovica is Serbia, Prizren is Serbia. When the first verdict is made under these laws of the false state of Kosovo will come to an end, free of propaganda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8531	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 52. The proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary which says that Article 52, paragraph 1, after the word "minimum" adds the proposal "by", and after the word "terror" adds the word "both". Namely, what's this about? The Republic of Serbia has two autonomous provinces under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, one of which is the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and the other is the AP of Vojvodina. It is unclear how this was predicted by the promoter, i.e. in Article 52 of this Law on the High Council of the Court of First Instance, it is the choice of members of the First Chamber of Judges: "The elective members of the First Chamber of Judges shall be one Judge from the Supreme Court of Serbia, one Judge from the High Court of Commerce and Trade Courts, or two judges from district and municipal courts, with at least one member", and that should be corrected, it shall stand – 'one member from the courts of both Autonomous provinces', and you have written that this should be at least one member from the territory of the Autonomous Province, both of them. So, by word, there can be a situation where one representative from the territory of an autonomous province, without being a representative of the High Council of the judiciary from another Autonomous province. It is particularly unacceptable for the reasons provided in the explanation, where it stands – "The bill contains provisions on the representation of courts and in indent 6 it is prescribed that one election member of the Council is elected from the courts from the territory of autonomous provinces. It is also prescribed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that one of the election members in the judge's order must be from the territory of the autonomous province. ''Not only to be an election member, but to be a 'chosen' member from the territory of an autonomous province, if we want to correctly interpret the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So that one elected member from the judge's ranks be of the territory of an autonomous province, and one elected member from the territory of another Autonomous province, if you care about the recognition of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is necessary that we all have to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest act of our country, and therefore try to protect the territory of KIM. But you're just doing this for the reason that you've already decided to release the kiM down the water and the remaining 130,000 Serbs to leave down the water into the hands of the Shiptar Separatists and terrorists, to find out how they know and know. The Serbian people at KIM tried to do a lot of things and point out. We organized ourselves after the election and formation of local self-government. We have established a Community Assembly, which is a common body, and which should have taken views on these key issues, when it comes to us personally, when it comes to our families, when it comes to our lives, about our property, and when, simply put, it is about our skin. We've been looking for reception on many occasions. However, apart from the President of the Assembly, we did not find understanding among others. We're reading these days that the Prime Minister himself doesn't know what was going on at the UN Security Council. Probably that's why he didn't want to take a delegation of Serbs with KIM after six or seven months, probably thinking that KIM is somewhere in South Africa, so there's no need to talk. It is a problem that will be addressed by other international organisations, not by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have organised a petition and we have collected 70,322 signatures of citizens from KIM, mainly Serbs and non-Albanians, who have expressed a clear view that we do not want the Eulex mission and that we already have one mission called UNMIK, which should carry out what the UN mandated them to do, which is to provide peace and prosperity in the KIM territory, with the normal sovereignty of KIM within the Republic of Serbia. On many occasions we tried to point out the problem that we couldn't function, that we were missing funds. But you were deaf. I submitted an amendment to the budget rebalance proposal. Do you know how much money I've been looking for? I asked for 50% of the first part to receive Bojan Kristo or 30% of the second part of the personal income, one personal income from Bojan Kristo. That was a lot for this government, for this parliament -- if they didn't want to allow these funds to be allocated to the KIM Community Assembly, so that we could have minimum funds so that we could function. I repeat, we asked for either 50% of the one piece that Bojan Kristo received in one month or 30% of the second part of his personal income. That's crazy stuff. I cannot explain when I go down to KIM, and I work here from Monday to Friday, as it is possible that this parliament does not vote this amendment, do not allow it, and you probably will not put it into the 2009 budget – that there is this institution, regardless of what the institution is legal and legitimate and represents the expression and will of the Serbian people and other non-Albanians on KIM, regardless of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia acknowledged by its conclusion. ''We confess you, you have a good life, that you respect, but to go and look for funds either in the international community or with Hashim Thaci, or to deal drugs with Hashim, so finance yourself! ''If the state of Serbia does not have, it cannot separate one third, 30% of one personal income, one part of the personal income of one public firm official or 50% for this part that we have asked for, for this three-month budget rebalancing period, so multiply it times four, because it has 12 months – that means we receive one salary from Bojan Krist, possibly two salaries from Bojan Krist, and we are satisfied. If so many states can't provide, then there's nothing else, but we have to do something else. We will succeed even though you do not allow us to have those resources. The assembly will function while there is no Serb at KIM. Be assured, everyone will stay down and fight for their rights and demand rights. If they cannot achieve them in the Republic of Serbia, they will look at other instances. What you have done and what it says in the press these days (on page 5, 6 or 7) that some victory has been made, that you have won a diplomatic victory – it is a disgrace and shame for this country of Serbia! You left, you handed over 15% of your territory, you gave up 15% of your country's territory. You left 130,000 Serbs at the mercy of the Ship's Separatists and terrorists. They're still telling you that if you're not good enough, you'll get Serbian heads here too, and you keep your mouth shut! You don't say a word! If any Serb had mentioned such a sentence, anywhere, I guarantee you that CNN, BBC, the UN Security Council would have already ambushed -- these are the hooligans, those Serbs, the villains that need to be destroyed. However, the Shiplars can send such messages that you will have Serbian heads, and whose heads, ours, my children, my friends, my neighbors, you will get on the plate here. It's a shame and a shame, what's going on. We asked various questions, among other things, and our minister who "proved a great diplomatic victory" in New York and he has answered our question since 14 October, in a package, me and Elena Christmas-Talian, and Vladan Batic and Jovan Palalic. We just asked him, "What is this state policy towards KIM, has it changed, hasn't it changed and what is it he's negotiating?" ''The answer is one fog, one indiscretion, and only one is important, and that is – the European Union and the road to Europe. The fact that you Serbs are going to stay in the new state in KIM doesn't matter at all. That Serbia will be cut 15%, it doesn't matter at all. It is important that you Serbs from the Serbian border enter Europe. And do you know when you will enter Europe – 2025 to 2030, if there is an organization until then? So you're giving something to accomplish, you're sacrificing part of the territory, you're sacrificing your own people, so another people can live better. That's how I can figure it out, no different. In fact, that sacrifice is in vain, because this people will not live any better than they do now, regardless of what 15% of your territory you're giving up, regardless of what you teach on the plate of 130,000 Serbs left down there to live. And then, according to the press, all kinds of affairs are starting in the paper, I don't know, robbery, abuses in KIM from 2002 to 2004. Today, gentlemen, is 2008. Why didn't you do it? I'm not saying there's no robbery, there's no abuse. But if that crime happened from 2002 to 2004, why didn't you react in 2005, 2006? 2007 Why now? To make some fog about how we Serbs in Kosovo are bad, how we Serbs don't know how to use the funds you're sending us, how we've misused, and I'll read from the papers, there are fantastic figures, and there are lies: "Point of Robbery" -- "The government of Serbia has been speedily preparing a package of measures against the abuse of state officials and officers at KIM, who have embezzled nearly three billion euros in the past six years". Do you know what you're talking about?- I'm sorry. We are asking you for one salary from Bojan Kriste to survive, to function the Assembly, you are not giving us, and here you mention three billion euros that have been misused. And if so, who has abused? It is you who have been in power, your people who have ruled below and who are still ruling today, no matter how they do not have a standoff in the electoral body. You have an incomplete 8% electoral body in KIM, but that's why you have both the Minister for KIM and the Secretary of State for KIM and the Chairman of the Co-ordination Committee. All those people were working and strutting. The KIM minister was one of the ministers in the government of Bajram Rexhepi. The current secretary of state is also an MP in the Kosovo Assembly. Those are the people who robbed those funds! You're even suggesting they robbed Hashim Thaci?- I'm sorry. He says, "With benefits, such as diaries and official cars, valuable Serbian officials tasked Thaci's government with salaries ranging from 1,000 to 3,500 euros a month. Who are these people? These are exactly the people Boris Tadic invited to go to the election! You remember, everyone boycotted the election, and Boris Tadic himself here, as an MP, voted not to go to the elections, and two months after that, when he was elected president of the Republic of Serbia, he called on the people to vote. How much did she respond? 0,035% responded. He remains president of the Republic, although he has the support of 0.035% of the electoral body of a part of his territory. Now, such insubordination Serbs, Boris Tadic, are well-delivered to Hashim Thaci. Why does he need Serbs who vote against him, who don't listen to him? What does he need this territory for? This is what the European Union needs. We had one single argument, and that's, that's under the auspices of the United Nations. In the United Nations, more than 50% of the members are friends of Serbs and Serbian people. There we could have earned our rights. You are returning us from the United Nations to Brussels, to the European Union, where we have no friends, except to mention Spain, Cyprus, Slovakia, Romania. But they're negligible in terms of strength. The basic forces are much stronger and much larger, so their influence is negligible. (President: it's been 15 minutes. I'm done. If we had stayed in the UN system, then we could have achieved and hoped for some better, that it would be in due course. To be clear, Serbs and Shipari are currently living next to each other, it is impossible to connect them. But in some foreseeable time, maybe, in 10, 20 years. And they will come, through our story, through our work, that they should accept the state of Serbia as their country, not to create a new phantom state, with the help of Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. It's a disgrace to this government, to this country! It's a shame that we're talking about Bojan Krisht, and that the minister, who named him, is not resigning. It is a shame to talk about KIM, to make such decisions in the Security Council, and in the meantime, the foreign minister does not resign immediately. It is a normal procedure in all democratic countries, except in the state of Serbia -- the worse, the better, and it is really incomprehensible, both for the citizens of Serbia and especially for the citizens of KIM. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8533	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8534	So I understand why the government did not accept this amendment by Mr Kragovic, because it refers to transitional and final provisions, Article 52. These provisions were spoken of when we talked about my amendment to Article 23, because this provision of Article 52, in fact, distinguishes the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary from some subsequent composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The difference is, right now, I'm gonna remind you, because of those unfortunate misdemeanor judges. Because the unfortunate judges can't find their bodywork anywhere at the moment, but they're at some transitional stage by 2010, when all the lucky ones will become the same as the permanent judges, and then we hear in the end -- they're not the same as permanent judges, so we don't know what they are. And Article 153. The constitution, on the basis of whom and the debate to be passed by these laws, stipulates in paragraph 4: "The election members make up six judges with permanent judicial office, one of which is from the territory of autonomous provinces". Here lies the reason for not accepting this amendment. I'm sorry, I would certainly support it, because the idea of the amendment is that each autonomous province should be one, which, apparently, is not possible here. But it is interesting that, when this bill was written, in other provisions, such as Article 22, it stole a mistake, allegedly, so the term autonomous province was given in one. That's how it was done through the entire text of the law. Is it a mistake or not? I'm afraid not. I'm afraid there's no mistake. Then, when the opposition MPs submitted amendments and suggested that this change be made and brought into line with Article 153. The constitution, in which it stands very clearly, one of which is from the territory of autonomous provinces, then of course you accepted it, because you have nowhere else to go, and you wanted to drag the one. When I'm talking about that one, you're thinking about the AP Vojvodina, not the kim. What do you mean, it's not? What would you think of KIM when you were provided in this regard by the president of the state, Boris Tadic, who, otherwise, you may not know, runs your government instead of Mirko Cvetkovic, who managed to solve all the problems of the Serbian state by recognising Eulex, who, rightly, intends to implement everything necessary for the state of Kosovo to gain full capacity for independence. That's what we do. That's what we hear every day in the media. We listen to ourselves, you carry out propaganda for Serbian citizens, push them, dose them with this propaganda, rejoice for your own great success by lying to yourself, which is very good, because that makes you less nervous. And you will prepare that what appears here as a fraud can be revealed very easily and quickly. Mr. Shormaz pointed that out. The EULEX will begin to help Kosovo institutions implement the rule of law and the first rulings of an independent state of Kosovo will appear, and until sighting. It's just one example, not to mention a number of other examples. Anyway, let's get back to this subject. So it is clear why this amendment could not have accepted this. But it's not clear why there was an intention, and it was an obvious intention to systematically pass through the entire law a unit when it comes to autonomous provinces. It's always said, "Autonomous province." Then the amendments go, then you accept that amendment because you have no place to go, because it points to Article 153(4). The constitution, which clearly stands, when it comes to candidates for the High Council of Justice, says – one of which is from the territory of autonomous provinces. So that's got to get in. Of course, the issue of formulation in this law is also extremely controversial. In which way, in order not to return now, very briefly, Article 22 lists which members of the Council of Judges – these six. The constitution only talks about six electoral judges, and it doesn't talk about exactly what the criteria are, where they're chosen from. Then it stands right here where anyone comes from these proposals: one from the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Court of Commerce, the judge of the administrative court. It means from any of these courts. One from appeals courts, any court of appeal, one from senior and commercial courts, any one from primary courts, one from law enforcement courts and a higher court, whatever it is, whether it's a misdemeanor court or a senior criminal court, and eventually this formulation that should make us happy -– one from courts from the territory of autonomous provinces, which is likely to be altered by the acceptance of the amendment, that it's plural. See now this formulation – is there an AP base court on the territory? There is, there is. Are there any higher ones? There'll be that, too. So what does this isolated formulation mean to you? Could it not have been written differently? Of which one must certainly be. This isolated formulation indicates nothing, only that one must be from the territory of autonomous provinces, as it stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In practice, you did not know when you wrote the law, nor did you adapt the constitutional norm that is extremely precise and clear, one normal, bound norm on how to choose candidates for members of the judge's office. There's still this big problem with the judges for violations, because you're going to put it here, relative to Article 153. The constitution, in the very beginning, will be in an unequal position for the candidate to be elected as members of the High Council of the judiciary, because for one candidate who is a judge will be asked for seven years of permanent judicial office, and another candidate will be asked to have a judicial exam and to have six, or seven years of training in the legal profession, as you accepted Mr Alexic's amendment. How can you explain that healthyly? There's no way. It is clear that you cannot accept Mr Kragovic's amendment, but I do not understand your intention, when it comes to the systematic introduction of the unity, when it comes to autonomous provinces, in the proposal for this law. What would you have if it hadn't been for the amendments? Like, you'd remember for yourselves, so you'd come to the board of directors, and you'd change that? You wouldn't, I bet you would!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8535	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8536	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and MPs, the LDP has submitted an amendment to Article 52 of this Law on the High Council of the Court and our amendment specifically reads: "Article 52 of Rule 1 adds a new position that reads: At least one member of the district court judges must be the judge of the Special Department of Organized Crime or the Council of War Crimes Judges." We have come to the conclusion that the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is very important, that it has the most difficult task and the greatest responsibility, because it has a general choice of judges ahead of it. Therefore, it does not matter who will be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. As far as we know, the judges of the special department of war crimes and organised crime and how experienced judges are, and how professional and responsible the judges and worthy of the task, because otherwise they would not do the work they do. These judges, among other things, are brave, and you will allow yourself to be a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and this first composition, in today's conditions, in today's situation, and that it is a serious act and requires great courage. We see no reason why, in addition to all these judges listed in Article 22 of this Law, we would not introduce this provision with regard to Judges of the Special Department of Organized Crimes and War Crimes. We suggest that these judges, with special qualities, which have already been checked, are qualities that do not have to be proven, but have been checked because certain filters have passed, have passed certain checks, why not take advantage of them, not give them a chance, not improve this composition of the High Council of Justice with these people and expect them to result, and the result can be expected, because they have so far proven to do this job seriously, because this is currently a burning problem of this country, that they are being tried by organised crime and war crimes. We have opportunities today to see that there are also a lot of crime, especially organised crime, and you know very well that organized crime is not without the involvement of the state. If we have this serious problem, that the state is involved in crime, and it is, the most crime is in the public sector, public enterprises, prove the past events this week that we have talked about, why not take the opportunity to put such judges, such responsible and dignified people in the High Council of the Judiciary, because the High Council of the judiciary that is now being formed, the first High Council of the judiciary, will represent an Alpha and an ominous of the future judiciary of this country. These are the people on whom the burden lies to choose judges who will judge in the future. If we go by that logic, that we need to reform the judiciary, then we need to go by that logic, that the first step is a good step, to be a brave step, and in our opinion, if one of these judges is included in the High Council of Justice, which I was telling you about. We propose that the LDP amendment be accepted, and the coalition in power, when the voting day comes, votes for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8537	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8538	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 226 and I request the notice and information that is important for my work, and this question is – where is the 2009 budget proposal? Fifteen days ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia reached an agreement with the IMF on a budget and public spending framework for 2009. It's also for the 19th. December scheduled session to decide on a new arrangement with the Republic of Serbia. However, in order for the arrangement to be approved, the Serbian Parliament must adopt the 2009 budget and there is no budget anywhere. My question is -- where is the budget, where is the stage, where is the work version, is there a predicate, a draft, because there is no proposal? A session of the government of the Republic of Serbia was held yesterday, but the budget was not on the agenda. Looks like our government has a lot of work to do. It seems that Tadic's government is still celebrating the adoption at the Security Council session of Ban Ki Moon's report on the deployment of the Eulex mission. They celebrate the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia agrees to lose its southern province and should resign. In today's statement, the EU welcomed the excellent co-operation of the Eulex mission with Kosovo institutions in the area of rule of law building. The EU has made it clear in its official statement that Eulex's goal is to build an independent state of Kosovo institution. Serbia's consent to legalise Eulex represents a direct complicity in establishing excellent co-operation between EULEX and the institutions of an independent Kosovo. The DSS MPs also warned the president of the Republic, Mr Tadic, and Prime Minister Cvetkovic for months and in time that Serbia should not become an accomplice in the process of recognising Kosovo's independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8539	Mr. Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8540	Reporting under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, first of all, do not surprise me that there are no MPs of the ruling coalition in the larger number, for the simple reason that the meetings of the Assembly do not mean anything to them, they learn the truth from the media, because once the media propaganda is unseen, they distort the image of what is happening in Serbia. Everything looks nice, everything's idyllic. At this point, we have more or less one emergency situation in the country, because we do not have yet the main document, the draft budget, here in the Assembly, which depends on the lives of citizens in 2009. It is interesting that when we talk about the budget, about the results of the government and about the economic crisis that the country's government have in mind individual ministers, a few days ago the Minister of European Integration, Mr Djelic, said figuratively that we are an island, an isolated island, and that we will not be affected by the economic crisis. Today, we have a statement by Minister Milosavljevic in "Evening News", where he says that Serbia is not an isolated island, that the economic crisis will reflect on both economic stability and the lives of citizens in Serbia. It's even scarier that this government has no responsibility, and when it comes to private entrepreneurs and workers, owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, because a huge number of people are out of work. We are not surprised by this situation and the government's relationship to the Security Council's decision on Eulex and there is no reaction to the EU's statement, where the EU has just welcomed the excellent co-operation of EULEX and Kosovo's institutions in the field of rule of law. So it's not true, gentlemen, that EULEX is status neutral. According to all the interpretations of the EU, Eulex is in charge and is coming to Kosovo to enforce the laws of the so-called EU. independent Kosovo countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8541	The MP, Mr Dimitrijevic, has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8542	Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been a media hall in Serbia for two days now about the great diplomatic success of Mr Vuk Jeremic. Today, an EU statement is coming, where it praises the excellent co-operation between Eulex and Kosovo institutions in the rule of law. In what state? Did you confess to Kosovo? Say it in public. Don't lie to this people anymore. Where are your MPs? Are they, perhaps, at some banquet about the installation of Eulex in Kosovo? Or maybe they're writing a budget? Where's the budget? I went out today and asked and asked for an answer to the question I received an unmistakable answer, on which the medicines are obtained through the Republic Health Insurance Office, and I received an answer from the current minister – based on the prices valid in Croatia, Italy and Slovenia. Do you have any idea how many detachments per capita are in those countries? In Slovenia, 2,500 euros. In Italy, about 1,500 euros. About 700 euros in Croatia. Do you know how much we have? That's 230 euros. These are the rappers we pay for the funds. It's the government's social responsibility, so it takes care of its population. That's how the U.S. ambassador's government behaves, made by the ambassador of Great Britain, and that's how the government of the domestic tycoons behaves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8543	The word is Mrs. Vervaine Radeta, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first address, in fact, Ms. Malovic, only in one sentence, because you were not there when my colleague Ljubomir Kragovic explained the amendment to Article 52. I think it's completely illogical why you didn't accept this amendment. You accepted my amendment to Article 22, which is almost identical with the amendment of counterpart Kragovic, with the exact same explanation. You accepted the amendment where I asked that instead of a single "autonomous province territory" stand "autonomous provinces" because in Serbia there are autonomous provinces. The same amendment is the same as my colleagues, Ljubomir Kragovic, and I remind you, as you were not at that moment, there is no reason. Mr. Cosic heard the whole argument and I just wanted to remind you, in the meantime look, think, there is no reason not to accept this amendment. Don't let us put it on your mind that you, too, recognise Kosovo in advance as an independent state. So accept this amendment just now. Now on the LDP amendment. A colleague, Judita Popovic, here on their amendment, of course, in an explanation, and even when she explained it, spoke very nicely, the essence was yes, she spoke nicely of judges who judge in the Special Crimes Department and organised crime of the District Court in Belgrade. The request of this amendment is that, in this high council of the judiciary for the seriousness of this first call, etc., it is necessary that representatives be at least, as the amendment states, one member of the district court judges, must be the judge of the Special Department for Organized Crimes or Judges of the Council for War Crimes. So much praise for the judges working in these courts is, above all, inappropriate to the results of the work that the whole of Serbia knows. Of course, the position of the SRS in these special court departments has been clear from the very beginning, that is, since the establishment of these departments. We don't think we should have ever organized these special war crimes departments and organized crime. There have been attempts since the time when the Belgrade District Court was organised, there have been some attempts and announcements in public, representatives and some other parties to oppose such a solution, but it has been stopped very quickly. Of course, we are not interested in what other political parties think, we are expressing our views, but I just want to say that we, the Serbian Radicals, have never had, have never had, and will have no problem expressing what is in line with the politics and attitudes and the SRS programme, confident that this is in the interest of Serbian citizens, and that this is in line with the interests of the citizens of the Serbian state. So, at the time this county court organisation in Belgrade was created, we openly said it was political courts, that what counterpart Judita Popovic presented as an argument on why the amendment should be accepted, we feel that it is precisely for these reasons that the amendment should not be accepted. Because the judges in these courts have been educated and educated in the white world, it certainly does not say that they went out there to learn anything that would be in the interest of protecting the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, which should be their primary goal. Because there's no difference, and I don't know what way it is, and when these judges are elected, and not now all of you who represent the claim that it should exist, how the criterion, what cantar you used when you measured the expertise, the knowledge, the security of the judges you took to those special departments, versus the judges who stayed to work in the Belgrade District Court. The colleagues who did the same job by yesterday, you are, not personally, but the Minister then, the Government, because it was the government's decision, regardless of what it formally went through the Assembly and the Assembly's majority at the time, you chose a number of judges you rated as some reformers of state and system. They differed from their colleagues at that time by receiving three times the salary. In the meantime, their salary, when the other judges were slightly increased wages and then to the intervention when there was some change of law, I think some amendment was accepted, twice increased compared to the other judges. These judges who are dealing, or who are judging the so-called organized crime and war crimes, have all possible similarities as top state officials. This is where my colleague, Judith, spoke of their extraordinary courage. These judges are driving in a armored car, and the judges are guarding the police as the highest state officials. We have no objection to the state guarding anyone whose life is at stake, but fellow Jojic here talked about the murders of judges in district courts, in municipal courts. So no one's tried or tried or tried or should, of course, threaten to kill or kill them, but protect all the judges. Why would that judge who was killed in Odzac, who Jojic spoke of, why would he be unprotected and Nata Mesarovic be protected? I guess only because Nata Mesarovic, when she read the verdict to the accused of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, began with "lady and gentlemen, we got the verdict". So we know that both she and everyone in those special departments are just the ones who get the convictions, as are those in the Special Court and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office who receive requests to initiate proceedings both from the prosecution in Croatia and from the BiH prosecutor's office, but therefore do not ask the same thing in return, that in their countries they are tried for war crimes indictees or suspects against Serbs. I talked about it here the other day, and that's a question, first of all, for Prosecutor Vukcevic and his spokesman Bruno Vekaric, who is so warmly praising that prosecution and that special court, why we have no information about it. This question, it can also be extended to the Minister of War Crimes, Dragan Sutanovac – why in the public of Serbia do we not have information, I even asked that as a question, and I never got an answer, why did our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office not ask for a case to continue in Croatia against certain persons detained in our courts – a criminal case against them, suspected of war crimes against Serbs, in some exchange went to 'their pretty' and there no one is running any proceedings against them, and our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is not looking for it? If they are specific and important that we should put them further to determine which judges will be in Serbia-wide courts, it is certainly not a recommendation. When it comes to organized crime, I don't know what a colleague of Judita Popovic saw or there's something we don't know, what's that organised crime court ended up with? Which of the affairs that have been initiated in the last eight years, which has been legally resolved and decided and judged by the judges of that special department? None. How many years have people been in custody and now they're in custody? Remember, we changed the law so that some would not be released from custody because the deadline that was then in force in the Law had expired because these special forces failed to resolve, or even the first-degree rulings to be passed. So, we think, not that something special should continue to stretch these judges out of these special departments, but we think that this is an opportunity when laws change, they bring new ones, and when you do this reform, they call the judiciary, to abolish these special departments, because their only success is a beautifully arranged building, video links provided so that witnesses can question both from here in The Hague tribunal and in Croatia or BiH. Last time I talked about it, I dropped something very important, in which the witnesses are provided here, those led by Natasa Kandic and that lawyer Todorovic, "Mothers of Srebrenica", and I don't know what they're called, and these from Croatia in crime proceedings at "Ovcari" and "Zvornik" etc. Do you know, Madam Minister, when there was a renewed crime case against Serbs in "Lori" near Split, that witnesses, people who were in "Lori" were not allowed to go there to testify? They asked the Justice Department, but you weren't the minister at the time, so that these special forces would provide security for these people to go to Split, to testify there. The state of Serbia couldn't provide them with that. No, only a man who lives in Rakovica went to his own risk, the others were offered to testify to the video, because there was no one in Serbia who could provide them with a witness in Split as witnesses to the war crimes trial at "Lori". So, there's a lot, here's the 15th minute that stands out, on this topic every Serbian radical could talk from now on until tomorrow, but the point is that we're pushing for these special departments to be abolished. They didn't show up in the light in which you represented them, and we knew from the beginning that they were political courts, that they were political departments, judges who judge political disputes. And, our best experience in co-operation between, in particular, the War Crimes Court and The Hague tribunal, we know through a procedure led against our president in The Hague, and now I don't have time to talk about pictures on the wall of that special prosecutor, Stipe Mesic, Boris Tadic, Vukcevic in arms, Carla del Ponte, etc., but there will be opportunities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8545	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the political system of a country, it is very important that each branch of government, in its full capacity, be independent or complement each other, is particularly important that the judicial branch of power is independent. These laws deserve, as you have seen, the attention of the MPs, but you could notice, here, as one reference to our discussion, I allow myself, since this is the last amendment, let me say, you have noticed that they are carrying out other topics, simply, we cannot be absolutely focused on this law in a situation where very important things are happening for our country, when the whole public is being deceived by, above all, by the ruling structures, and thanks to the influence they have on the media, about what happens in the Eulexa and what it means by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. An ordinary man would say, well, the Secretary General of the United Nations has reached agreement there with both the Serbian and Albanian sides and with all members of the Security Council, that EULEX is one benign thing, that it can be moved to the KIM premises and that it does not affect our province's further fate at all, that it does not affect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country in those areas, but simply, we have a commitment and I have noticed that many MPs, especially those with KIM, and here when we intervened in Article 52, where Mr Kragovic talked about it, it is not so. The statement is resorted to when the Secretary-General absolutely knows that he cannot reach a majority in the Security Council, when there is a danger that one of the Security Council members is vetoed. As such a danger existed, he brought a statement that was not binding, but after the Serbian authorities accepted it, gluffed it, and our foreign minister raised his hands in victory, as if he had won the "U.S. Open", then it binds us. So our authorities went a step further in acknowledging the so-called “recognition. ” independent KIM countries. No one's gonna talk about it, no one's gonna critically look back, and the government, here, we're warning her from this place, takes a historical responsibility for what's going on today. Of course, that's because we haven't had a chance to talk here, for this assembly speaker, about what Eulex is, to get to know our public, to put extra pressure on our government to hear us abroad, to hear us and those countries that are members of the Security Council, because they follow what we do and what attitude we have on this issue. The ruling majority here in the assembly didn't want that item on the agenda, and here's our proposal to discuss government mistrust, but only because of Eulex, although there are other reasons, and it could be heard and implemented through this session here. Unpreparedness to fight crime leads to the government having free space to do something and what she did, indeed, will be just her responsibility. So, in front of history, and we in front of the people, and perhaps later, one day when we agree with the president of the assembly who will tell us on behalf of the parliamentary majority when that session will be next, let us talk about it. Please, gentlemen, let's get serious. If we don't know ourselves enough, come on, read again, you've all read, I believe, Archibald Rice, to open your eyes, to tell you what's so beautiful in the Serbian people, in our man, and what's what we have to take care of ourselves. We always react to the post-festum. So the circle of history with us is constantly turning and we can't learn what, when, we should do and how to keep ourselves from ourselves. I had to say this, it's not unrelated, of course, to these amendments that we have submitted, through this whole bill is implemented by an AP, which means that you knew in advance what attitude Eulex will be about in the Security Council, because that was the whole policy of the Serbian government and the President of the Republic. You've installed only Vojvodina here, you've given up KIM, even though it doesn't stand in the Constitution. But in particular, my amendment refers to Article 52(5), in which we ask that the High Council of Justice, which, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, will propose to the National Assembly one or more candidates for each election member, that this "one or more candidates" will not be so alternative, but be mandatory to 'two', because if we choose to then be offered those two candidates. You can choose one, not you, but those who suggest. This, if it's gonna be any more, is a question. We don't have a choice here. We can only agree or disagree, bring this high advice to a situation where there is no elected member, if that one doesn't suit us. I don't see what your need for you to endure, not to accept this amendment, and we clearly don't determine that it has to be at least two. We said two, but you could have put at least two. The explanation that you gave us for not accepting this amendment is at least totally insurmountable, because you say that this is the only way you suggested that it should stand in the law to allow the election will to be achieved by the judge. Which is quite the opposite of what we've been trying to prove with the amendment, because we think that the best way to do so is to make it possible for the judges and those who propose and those who will eventually choose. But good. We were just talking to the benches that this was called the High Council of Justice, and you changed it to the High Council of the Judiciary. We're playing with time and form. It is in accordance with the Constitution, but in the Constitution, we also coordinate terminology with Western terminology. The militia isn't the police anymore, it's the police. We're losing our beautiful Serbian language. Everything about wanting to touch someone instead of going back to ourselves, because, believe me, in medicine, they say homeotherapy is the best way to treat it. The organism itself is best at fighting all negative phenomena, so it's the same in society. It's all very nicely designed, but we just need to look around and find a cure for all our pains. Thank you for listening to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8547	Mr. Alexander Pejcic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I know it's too late, but I have to ask you all one question -- who authorized Vuk Jeremic to bring EULEX to Kosovo? I'm asking all of you. I'm asking the government the same question. This assembly, this house has brought a resolution, which is not recognised by Eulex, and does not give anyone the mandate to negotiate this abroad, to bring Eulex to Kosovo. This assembly has not passed the law to negotiate. The government, however, derogates the decision of the assembly. Boris Tadic derogates the decision. I ask all of you - why are we sitting in these benches? Should we just be a voting machine or make important decisions? I'm asking the MPs of the ruling majority. What's your function here? To derogate the decision of this home? What's the role of government? Instead of being bickering about the issue that life means for people in Kosovo, around Eulex, it deals with one single issue, which is the introduction of Eulex in Kosovo. What is it, like my friend Misa Dimitrijevic said, with the budget? Did this government bring a budget or a budget draft? Do we have it on the table? We don't have it. Does the government know how much the euro is today? He doesn't know, 89.2 in exchanges is 91, with a trend of growth until the new year to 100 dinars, and maybe over 100 dinars. Does this government have a solution to this financial crisis? No, there isn't. I ask all of you – why does the Government sit in government, what does it do? Is Mirko Cvetkovic there a spokesman for Boris Tadic or has some important function? It's a question for all of us here, because at this point the government is demeaning us all by introducing EULEX to Kosovo, not asking all of us here. I don't want to use words like that. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all of you from the ruling majority will influence your superiors to give up some of the things for people who matter in Kosovo, which is, above all, Eulex. This congregation must make an important decision about Eulex, for this house decides on these important matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-28-0.u8549	The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, Mrs. Snezana Malovic does not want to speak, I conclude the review of the proposal for a law on the High Council of the judiciary, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law on principles, details and generality. We continue our work on Monday, December 1st at 12 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. On the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are currently 92 MPs in the hall, i.e. we have more than one third of the MPs, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Munir Poturak. That's what he told me and you. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called on Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr Jovan Cosic, Head of Justice, to attend today's session. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY OF THE PUBLICATION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the following MPs: Đorđe Milicevic, Zlata Đerić, Branko Ružić, together Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, Vladan Batić, Srdjan Spasojević, Milutin Jelic, Jurvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antić, Mileta Poscurica, Veroljub Arsić, Petar Jojic, together Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilović, together Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Janković, Sreto Perić, Vuk Dinčić, together Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Janković, Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojlinović, Nenadžtinović, Nenadčević, Milan Lapčević and together Milica Petović and Milica Petrović. You have received amendments submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vuk Dincic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milica Radovic, a national MP. Here you go.
