ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3808	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS OF THE AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The People's MP Slobodan Samardzic appeared on the word on behalf of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3809	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure to ask a question – what will the Serbian Government do to deter the wave of recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, which followed right after accepting our initiative to seek the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the validity, the legal validity of Kosovo's declaration as an independent state? The effects of what happened the day before yesterday in the General Assembly lasted less than 24 hours. We have triumphantly celebrated this result in the media and public statements of officials. However, very soon, therefore not full 24 hours later, the recognitions of Kosovo and Metohija by Montenegro and Macedonia followed, two neighbouring countries of Serbia and two states that have apparently succumbed to US pressure to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The government has already taken some steps, but they concern only Montenegro, as far as we know. However, this is a far more important matter. In fact, the US's likely pressure on other countries is mentioned in Saudi Arabia and some other countries, which should now recognise Kosovo's independence. The reason for the initiative in front of the General Assembly was that this would result in a reduction, if not a complete annulment of the continuation of Kosovo's recognition, however, we see that this is not happening, but rather the opposite process -- already the two countries have recognised it further, and probably others will. So these measures don't produce fruit, they don't produce results, so the basic question is what to do next. The government must have had earlier stronger mechanisms than these, than this demand for an opinion, precisely in the sense of deterring Kosovo and Metohija's recognition, primarily the lawsuit against the states that did it. In any case, such a move by the state would do much more than this which was obtained by this opinion. On the other hand, Serbia continues its European integration process although the European Union is very present in strengthening Kosovo's independence process and very present in the secondary role, so as US assistants in this process; this is, therefore, more than clear. I must tell you, if you haven't noticed, that Serbia's European integration is not on the agenda of the European Union's enlargement policy, but is on the agenda of the European Union's foreign and security policies. And the European Union's foreign and security policy on Kosovo and the Western Balkans is not managed by Brussels, but by Washington. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) So we need to review our integration policy completely, given what's going on. Once again, I ask the government to make a clear statement about this and take this strongest move -- to initiate lawsuits against states that have illegally recognised Kosovo's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3810	You received motions for decisions taken by the parliamentary groups: G17 plus (number 02-1529/08 of 15 July 2008 and number 02-2232/2008 of 26 September 2008); New Serbia (02-1600/08 of 17 July 2008); United Pensioners of Serbia (PUPS) Party (number 02-1803/08 of 4 August 2008); Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) - Unity Serbia (JS) (number 02-1804/08 of 4 August 2008, with correction of 2 September 2008 and number 02-23858/08 of 7 October 2008); for European Serbia (number 02-2021/08 of 9 September 2008) and Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica (number 02-2259/08 of 29 September 2008). I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the parliamentary group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the G17 group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: Milisav Petronijevic, the mandated representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, and in the absence of the president of the parliamentary group during the discussion of the 14th item of the agenda of the first session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008; on the same basis, MP Zoran Krasic is an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of the proposing, MPs Suzana Grubjesic, president of the G17 Plus MP group, Miroslav Markicevic, deputy president of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Konstantin Arsenovic, deputy president of the United Pensioners' Group, Milisav Petronijevic, senior representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia - Unity Serbia, Nada Kolundzija, President of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia Milos Aligrudic, President of the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica, Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, want a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3811	Mrs. Komic, you are well aware of the practice of the National Assembly for the past few years that when this or similar item of the agenda comes to the agenda, usually no one appears for discussion, because at a meeting with the president, attended by representatives of all the political parties represented in the National Assembly, there is simply an agreement on these quotas of proportionate participation of each political party on the board. The parties deliver their personal proposals and almost after automation such a decision is voted here. It is almost identical when a political party changes its representative within a committee or other competent body, its party member. This is usually used in the National Assembly as evidence of tolerance, parliamentaryism, bargaining, since there are some things that would be controversial, since the working bodies of the National Assembly reflect the electoral will of the citizens. Of course, in an appropriate proportion, depending on how many members there are of a working body. However, there was a situation where these points of the agenda were also giving attention. If Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic were in your position, I would give her an example she was criticising with law. This is Branislav Ivkovic's example. It was this: SNS, Branislav Ivkovic; the SPS and many other parties who were opposition parties in the National Assembly at the time opposed it, criticised and said that it was a change in the electoral will of citizens, that under one ideologies, a group of MPs entered one policy, and at that time DOS charmed some of its spells by Branislav Ivkovic and, with several MPs, he simply changed the ideology and politics, the way of voting, the way of thinking. He was a sort of backup. It's the kaka with the cabbage, so when you need a race, you take out the rasol as much as you miss to demonstrate some unity in the National Assembly and the presence of a much larger majority than there really is. With this argument, Mrs. Comic, I can't convince you because you supported it at the time. That's why I made that difference. If Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic were in your position, she would have taken it very well and I don't know why she wouldn't have condemned it now if she criticised it a few years ago. The situation is identical today. If the RIK reports are looked at, if the beliefs issued by the Republic Election Commission are looked at, if you look at what was done at the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly, if you look at the order of sitting MPs, then it is clear to every reasonable and normal person that the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj has 78 seats in the National Assembly. Now I'd like to remind you a little bit of something that's been made public. It's common knowledge as soon as it's published in all the media. All MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, 78 of them, have resigned to the Serbian Radical Party because they are MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Meanwhile, one of those MPs has left the party because of one amendment. A party exclusion was established, and then he informed the public that all resignations were with him, that he had lost them. Did he lose them, did he burn them, did he hide them, for this debate is not so important, but it is important that, first of all, the president of the National Assembly, the Democratic Party and those who make up the government and who make up the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly, these people are allowed to be a reserve, a yellow reserve. How was that done? It was done by harshly breaking the provisions on the formation of parliamentary groups under Rule 23 of our Rules of Procedure. We are all aware that today no one should be called to this Rules of Procedure or to some member, because it all comes down to most, it all comes down to whether there are 126 - 127 hands in the air for. If there is, then everything is constitutional, legal, legitimate and so forth. I came out today to remind once again the president of the National Assembly and all the presidents of the parliamentary groups of parties, and the Democratic Party, and the Socialist Party of Serbia, and the G17 plus, and the Liberal Democratic Party, and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and New Serbia, and the United Serbia, and the pensioners' party and these two-three parties of national minorities, that this is what is done, and it comes down to a fact that it is not recognised to the Serbian Radical Party 78 mandates, unconstitutionally, illegally, and that it must be resolved, that everything is back to the previous, initial state. We are fighting for our mandates because these mandates express the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They express how much the citizens of the Republic of Serbia supported our ideology, our programme and our policy with which we offered ourselves to citizens. Now it's over, we now have a situation where the National Assembly, by means of funds from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, forms a party out of the budget. They're starting a new party. I must draw your attention, as a candidate of a group of citizens, there is only one MP here. We now have twenty MPs, because they are not party deputies, they do not have that party, there is no such party. There's no such thing in the register. It didn't exist on election day, it didn't become the day of the National Assembly's constitution. If you don't believe me, look at the credentials of the election for the Messengers of the people. You won't find any SNS abbreviations anywhere. We believe that the Serbian Radical Party should be allowed to benefit, in fact, 78 seats and that everything that depends on the number of political party MPs in the appropriate proportion should be re-painted in committees and committees of the National Assembly. You probably have most of it. You can probably do anything. I'm saying probably because I'm absolutely sure you're not sure this is going to be a good move for you either. Based on some experience, I can warn you in time. So was Branislav Ivkovic. He's gone in political life. Here was the "Serbian Berlusconi" – Karic; he also came in pompously, kidnapped MPs, failed in the elections. That's how the other one's gonna go. Do not underestimate the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they have much more morals than you think they do. They recognize, see what it is, they understand, and put this in the context of daily political events related to Kosovo and Metohija, related to the social and economic situation of Serbian citizens and these "fatamorgans of the initiative" on joining, joining those installed as enemy authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. They recognize citizens that someone designed this as a topic we'd be dealing with. We're only going to deal with this subject as much as to remind you that everything that's been taken is cursed. That's how we teach kids -- son, don't steal, remember, there's a saying in Serbia "he's been kidnapped." That's how we teach kids in the house. Well, you don't think it takes kids to remind us that what we taught them is true? I guess we, as older people, should demonstrate that, and that morale, and that honesty and respect of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At some meeting, something was agreed, of course, by the voting system, and the Serbian Radical Party is not recognised what belongs to it, but a new political party is being created. It is not even registered yet, but it, according to the president of the National Assembly, exists, vegetates, enjoys rights here, uses unfounded budgets to make a party. Who needs her? She needs a Democratic Party. Only the Democratic Party needs it. I don't see the difference between those DS people sitting on this side and their "yellow" colleagues who moved around on some other benches. It's the same ideology that only got a certain number of votes, but it has an addition -- stolen votes. We hope there must be some kind of morale rot and that this great injustice must be corrected. We have no intention of voting. We have come here to express the views of the SRS and to represent the interests of citizens, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and particularly of those who voted for us, who recognized our policy. That's what we're going to do, and we're going to file, if we have to, bill proposals and amendments, and we're going to take part in the debate, and we're going to criticise you always for this -- kidnapped. We'll always criticize you. You won't be able to avoid that criticism. In this conference, not until you've made a vomit in your previous condition. The previous condition is normal. Contrary to normal, it's an abnormal condition. This is an abnormal condition. Whether this addition to the "yellow company" will vote against, whether it is in the O.R. or not, it stands as a warning to the SPS, G17 plus and other political parties that the reserve exists, be good, you must listen to Boris Tadic. We're putting all this on Boris Tadic. This was well designed so as not to see a devastating policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, so as not to see a destructive policy towards neighbours, so as not to see this devastating collapse towards the EU in a non-critical way, without leaving space and for one national interest, with the blind acceptance of everything that comes from the side, this situation with banks, businesses, pensioners. We got a raise, we cheered up, and tomorrow he's gone. They've gone down. That's how it's gonna be with all the social groups. Why? Because here in the National Assembly Hall, the parliamentary majority (the general majority, perhaps a more correct term, because now you are the unity of power) demonstrates that kind of violence not only but also corruption. It would be a shame for me personally if one of your MPs had moved on to the SRS. We would never accept it. And in order not to complain much, the issue of the Serbian Radical Party is resolved. You know well that's settled. It is not only the issue of returning the mandate and the issue of proportionate representation of the Serbian Radical Party, with 78, in all committees of the National Assembly, and you know it well. It suits me when you deny it. It suits me when you applaud them, because then it's the best proof of that relationship that exists. If, on the Administrative Board, the main defender, not the defender, but the defender of the character and actions of some who are not MPs, is Bosko Ristic, then you understand everything. What remains of all the initiatives Bosko Ristic defended in the National Assembly? Nothing, the Rules of Procedure mutilated, expelled MPs, then returned, from the DSS. Constitutional Charter - a torn state. It's so much better when he doesn't do anything. When he gives someone support, then you know it's something illegal. Intelligence is, among other things, behavior based on some experience. An elementally intelligent man refers to experience; he was once in that situation and learns what will happen. Bosko Ristić is a recognizable brand for lawlessness. When he's applauding something, know it's not good. There are others, that syndrome is spreading to you. I'm not in charge of this, Mrs. Djukic is in charge of these syndromes. I've used these 17 minutes to just warn you, inform you and express my protest, because this way... Not so many of these decisions, we don't interfere with the personal solutions of political parties, so someone doesn't get it wrong, but we insist on getting back what we've been kidnapped by the president of the National Assembly, Boris Tadic and DS. Give us back what you took from us. You kidnapped by guarding, defending, trying to keep these people here, so they could be a stone in our shoes, a pebble, but there will be a stone around your neck. Every day you'll see how much that rock weighs. He'll be too heavy for you. He'll sink you. You understand, I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3812	The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, who points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3813	Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, there was an event yesterday in Montenegro, and we sitting in this House must ask the Government to inform us what it will do in the coming period. So, what do we propose as MPs? I remind you that Serbia has supported Montenegro for 50 years. My grandfather paid over the payroll because of an earthquake that hit Montenegro I don't know what year, so we took over to do it since 2000. When the country of Serbia-Montenegro was created, Serbia paid 95% of the financial commitment regarding Serbia-Montenegro's support, i.e. Montenegro's, and Montenegro's 5%. They had a 5% obligation they did not respect for Serbia. What else did they do? The man who broke Yugoslavia, Stipe Mesic, was declared an honorary citizen of Podgorica. We were silent then, but I knew that Svetozar Marovic was not the president of Serbia-Montenegro, he was Montenegro's president and represented Montenegro's interests and advocated Kosovo's independence. I propose, since it happened yesterday, and not the citizens of Montenegro have decided, but two people, Filip Vujanovic and Milo Djukanovic, that they be "persons non-grata", that the Serbian government makes such a decision tomorrow, to freeze economic relations between these two republics, to stop planes flying to Montenegro until further notice what the people of Montenegro will say. We can't just watch what happened yesterday. This parliament would have to schedule a session with the only agenda -- the problem that happened in Montenegro. Please accept this proposal, Madam Chairman, to convey to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who is not here right now. I think this is the most urgent thing right now and we need to talk about it. Why? If we were betrayed by the ones we've been supporting for years... And I must remind you that there are many mixed marriages between Serbs and Montenegrins; I hope that the Montenegrin people will condemn yesterday's decision and that Milo Djukanovic and Filip Vujanovic will change the decision they made to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Maybe this is Milo Djukanovic's blackmail because it's mentioned in the tobacco affair, but I don't need to be the victims for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3814	I ask the service to refer a stenogram and a discussion of the MP to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a proposal. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not about the classic injury of the Rules of Procedure. It's really interesting that on this side and at times like this, the throws come -- come on, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We expected you gentlemen from the ruling majority to tell us what you will do and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do about Kosovo's recognition by the government of Montenegro. That's why I called to talk to the Rules of Procedure. We have long spoken and asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to meet the National Assembly with an action plan. We don't even know today, we can read in the paper that some government officials say something from some action program will apply... We always thought that the action programme, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, should not only be in the jurisdiction of the Serbian government, but also that the National Assembly had to get to know it; and not only to get to know it, but to give the National Assembly its opinion on it. It was really necessary for us to have a Prime Minister here today. I guess they expected MPs to be interested in what the state of Serbia is going to do today, as far as Montenegro is concerned, because of what happened yesterday. Of course, we don't have any information about that, nor is there anyone here today who could introduce us to that. We Serbian radicals insist that as soon as possible, both the people's MPs and the public, the citizens of Serbia, introduce us to this action plan regarding Kosovo and Metohija, to see what the government of the Republic of Serbia will do when it comes to the government of Montenegro, whether they will just fold their shoulders and say - what to do, what happened, that they have made a joke to withdraw the ambassadors to consultations, so that after a month or two days they can return them back to where they pulled them from. This irresponsible attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia towards Kosovo and Metohija is indeed inadmissible. It is clear to us why you did not allow the National Assembly to discuss a proposal of 108 MPs on the so-called Kosovo and Metohija resolution. You want to throw everything that's a real problem under the carpet. That, ladies and gentlemen, can't do it anymore. The government of the Republic of Serbia has to file accounts. I don't know what they'll brag about when they're graded for 100 days of work by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which they'll boast about when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We expect the most urgent reaction from the government, we expect the Prime Minister in parliament, we want to talk to him, ask him, suggest and negotiate here. Kosovo and Metohija are no one's side, it's part of the Republic of Serbia. The state of Serbia, all state authorities must have a very serious and responsible relationship. Regardless of how embarrassingly you voted not to discuss resolution 108 of the MPs, we insist that it be put on the agenda today, immediately, to convene non-EU MPs, to hold a special session. We have a business opportunity. But you don't care, ladies and gentlemen. What's scariest is you're laughing at us for what happened yesterday because of that part of the brotherly people in Montenegro... Because of the government of Montenegro, unfortunately, we were surprised, we knew Milo Djukanovic couldn't do anything but what they did yesterday, but it's a shame that you from the ruling majority are not interested in it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3816	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is pronounced by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3817	Mrs. Komic, I will appeal to the most banignant provision of our Rules of Procedure, which is Article 27, and you will understand what this is about. In parliaments where there is a tradition and where parliaments seek to fulfill their constitutional role, and there is a state where there is no constitution, it is important that, regardless of whether it is a assembly or a senate, always a representative of the government present; regardless of whether a point proposed by the government is on the agenda, there is always a government representative present. We have something like that in our rules of procedure. I do not refer to these provisions and do not want to direct the debate to this, I just want to draw attention to the MPs – if there is an institution in the Republic of Serbia that has to take care of what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 2, then it is the National Assembly. Just to remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, what is written: "The bearers of sovereignty - sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a people's initiative and through their freely elected representatives. No state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens or establish power beyond the free will of citizens. "The whole wisdom of our present day comes down to this member, the whole. We can't get past this subject. We need to have a parliamentary debate on this. We should not appeal to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the Agenda, because there are also provisions that allow the agenda to be changed, that the Government should come and report, that it should submit the most basic information, that citizens should simply be oriented in time and space, not by means of newspapers, television, but by means of what is heard in the National Assembly. The National Assembly is the central place of politics in one country. And here it's avoided, here it's resorting to some ruses, pranks and insolences, and that's why it's catching up with us all. I think, Mrs. Comic, that the National Assembly must urgently request that a complete government come here to submit an adequate report and basic information on what is happening in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-10-0.u3818	The invitation to Article 27 implies the obligation of the chairman, or the President of the National Assembly, to carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution, to chair the meetings of the National Assembly, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to take care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly and to carry out other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. I don't think that member's been broken. I can only remind myself of the information that we all know, which is that at the request of the parliamentary group, a session of the assembly at which the Government answers the questions of all MPs can be scheduled. These are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we all know. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, 10 October 2008, at 12.00 hours at the Blue Salon. I would like to inform you that according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for the application for a word, in writing, were not submitted by the Presidents or by the authorised representatives of any parliamentary group. Since there are no voter groups registered for a word, I ask if the presidents and representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak, or if someone else has not used their right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, whether or not the representatives of the proposer, and on the basis of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. This concludes the session for today, October 10, 2008. We continue our work Tuesday at 10:00 p.m. by discussing the details of the agenda points for which we have completed the search in principle. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. On the occasion of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Vladan Batic appear. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
