ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-15-0.u15403	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Let me, on 15 February – Statehood and Army Day of Serbia – congratulate all citizens and soldiers on the holiday. Also, I congratulate all the believers of the Orthodox religion on the feast of the Meeting of the Lord. I would like to inform you that they are also invited to attend the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the MPs and elected President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Government, the Head of the General Staff of Serbia, the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for Public Information, the President of the Council of the State Auditory Institution, the President and members of the Republic of the Election Commission, the President of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the rectors of the university, representatives of traditional churches and religious communities, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court. Allow me to welcome the guests present on your behalf and on your behalf. Dear People's MPs and distinguished guests, I called this special session on the basis of Article 114(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the President of the Republic swears an oath before the National Assembly when entering office. A report by the Republic Election Commission on the elections conducted for the President of the Republic, held on 20 January, 3 February and 12 February 2008. On the basis of the results of the re-voting, the Republic Election Commission has determined that it is in accordance with Article 21(1) for the President of the Republic. The law on the election of the president of the Republic, elected Boris Tadic, who won the largest number of votes in the re-vote, with 2,304,467 votes. In this way, the conditions for the President of the Republic, acting pursuant to Article 114(3), were met. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia swears before the National Assembly. I remind you that, according to Article 182. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the oath takes an oath by reading aloud the Constitution of the established text of the oath. After reading the text, the President of the Republic signs the text of the oath. I ask Mr Boris Tadic, elected President of the Republic, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the People's Messengers to stand up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-15-0.u15404	"I swear to all my strengths to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of it, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the Constitution and law, the preservation of peace and prosperity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to carry out my duties in a safe and responsible manner." (Singing anthem.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-15-0.u15405	I ask Boris Tadic, president of the Republic, to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate Boris Tadic on your behalf and on my behalf the president of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been chosen by Serbian President Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-15-0.u15406	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, your Excellency, the election of the President of the Republic of Serbia ended the process of establishing state institutions after the adoption of the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All state institutions – The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Serbia and the President of the Republic are the cornerstone of the country's stability. We all have to work at full capacity and there must be no delay in that work. Dear MPs, we have great responsibility, the defence of the interests of Serbian citizens, the country's economic progress, the European perspective and the preservation of Serbia's sovereignty and integrity. These are our most important tasks. The citizens rightly expect us to work for their benefit, so they chose us for these responsible functions. The citizens set a goal by their choice. It is important that we achieve unity on key issues, but not unity is not the goal in itself, but is the objective of the programme for which the citizens voted. They voted for Serbia to be a strong and stable, economically prosperous, respected country, an EU member state. In front of this House of the National Assembly, I want to clearly confirm - I will never give up the fight for our Kosovo, and I will fight with all my strength for Serbia to be in the EU. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, your Excellency, I thank you for your attention and expect that our co-operation will benefit all citizens of Serbia in the future. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-15-0.u15407	Thank you. I conclude the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Please attend the cocktail in the central hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
