ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5227	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 140 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present at this point in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary Aleksandar Veljkovic, Interior Ministry Chief and Nenad Banovic, Head of the Interior Ministry. Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Professor Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education. I also welcome the minister. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SERBIA GOVERNMENT OF SERVANT TO KFW after JP EPS's responsibilities - TERMOELECTRANS OF LIFE FUNDS (single) After the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. As amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Goran Mihajlović and Jagoda Jorga. You have also received the opinion of the Government and the reports of the Committee on Education and the Legislative Committee on the Amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Dejanovic, I have a feeling you're afraid to look at the MPs. Since you sat down at the table and left, you can't lift your head. I don't know what the reason is. Yesterday we had a problem in the Assembly when Vice-President Gordana Comic was chaired. She conducted the session and acted completely different from you, so we don't know what the current Rules of Procedure is. Mrs Dejanovic, does Mrs Komic (in my opinion) violate the Rules of Procedure or do you (in her opinion)? It is impossible for you and her to act in different ways and respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We should clarify these things because you are bringing the Serbian Parliament's MPs into confusion. You have made it possible, which is quite all right, among other things, to have a session where it is said: before moving to the agenda, the minutes are adopted. It's totally fine, just like someone can answer the Rules of Procedure. If you can move to the agenda before the minutes are adopted, you can certainly get a word in the Rules of Procedure. You did it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But yesterday, we had a huge problem with Mrs. Comic, who in no way wanted to allow it. I had the feeling that Mrs. Comic would run out in front of the pay phone, if necessary, to defend the pay phone until the last drop of blood, and not let it get to the agenda, making sure that Europe was waiting for us, so we wouldn't waste our time and get to Europe as soon as possible. Therefore, I would really like you and your vice presidents to agree, sit down and say, "This is according to the Rules of Procedure, this is not in the Rules of Procedure and to tell the MPs." You had another situation yesterday, that one vice president took away the other vice president's word, and that, according to the Rules of Procedure, he had no right to do so at all. He wasn't at the pay phone, and there's not a single word in the stenogram...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5229	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. I'd just like to say that I'm not afraid at all, but I'm simply reading the text that was planned for the beginning of the session. There's no reason to be afraid of my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 27. Rules of Procedure. The issue launched by Mr Dragan Todorovic can only be resolved in one way. I suggest you do it in voting day and do it. In Voting Day, you should put the question on the agenda whether you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, violated the Rules of Procedure when you gave Mrs Susan Grubjesic the floor before opening the next item of the agenda. We don't think so, but you should put it on the agenda. The second question you need to put on the agenda in the voting day is whether Mrs. Komic hurt the Rules of Procedure when she did not give Mr. Todorovic the floor before the debate was opened on the agenda. So that we don't waste our time and convince ourselves about what we individually think, because it's unacceptable what Mrs. Komic said here yesterday, that she thinks she's in line with the Rules of Procedure the way she does, and that the President of Parliament might think differently and that that's her thing and her opinion. So you can only interpret the Rules of Procedure the same way. You may have some personal opinions, but the personal opinions of the President of Parliament and the Vice-President of Parliament when he sits in that seat cannot and must not be. So, to clarify the question permanently whether the MP can speak in the Rules of Procedure before opening the agenda, and I repeat, we argue that he can, you must put on the agenda in the voting day, and that is now my request, my intervention by the Rules of Procedure. First, the National Assembly wonders whether you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, hurt the Rules of Procedure when you gave the word to Susan Grubjesic. The second question - did Mrs Gordana Comic hurt the Rules of Procedure when she did not give the word to Dragan Todorovic? After that vote in the day of the vote, we, the MPs of the people, will respect what you decide. One of you did break the Rules of Procedure. What the assembly majority or MPs decide, all who vote, will apply to us as a rule of interpretation of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5231	Thank you. The service will, of course, prepare your proposal and Parliamentarians will declare themselves in the voting day. Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5232	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think it is high time, given that the public is well aware, that you invite your vice presidents and agree on how to apply the article. 27 and 31 (i) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it is impossible for two different decisions to be made in the same situation and for it to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It could only be in one anecdote of Nikola Pasic, where there were two opposing sides, and he said one - you're right - and then he told the others - you're right, so this third said - so how can one and the other be right? And he says - and you're right. That could have been interesting at the beginning of the 20th century. It's no longer interesting today. People who chair meetings of the National Assembly cannot be the cause of a misunderstanding or something that creates conflicts in a normal work of the National Assembly. We believe that you simply have to resolve this or, otherwise, that we are asking that the National Assembly in Voting Day finds that Mrs. Comic has committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that she realizes that you have committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, most will decide that there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. So, what's the situation? I get the impression this Rules of Procedure needs a little bit of work. This is where the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are to be imposed while the chairman sleeps, because I get the impression that Mrs. Komic does not dream of clouds, birds, but how the next day to break this Rules of Procedure better, to express the rhetorical ability of the "Kumroving School" system, I tell you a story and tell you nothing, and some time purchases. You from Kumrovec call back later and come out here. I know you're focused here, from Mojvicka, and so on. Sorry about your last name, come on. So this has to be dealt with in principle. If this isn't resolved in principle, then it's possible that we in the Assembly have a funny situation, that someone from the security team run in and say, we have a tip that a bomb was planted, so it's like a fire protection exercise in The Hague yesterday. When they no longer had anything against Vojislav Seselj, a police officer came in and said, "All out, fire drill." The judges run, the D.A. runs, the Army sits and laughs and watches what a bright mind can think of overnight. So, this violation of the Rules of Procedure while you're sleeping... (President: It's been three minutes. )......................................................................................................... Just two seconds, because of what I gave last time a lot more. So while you're sleeping, you're thinking about breaking the Rules of Procedure. I wouldn't be surprised if the head of security ran and said - we have a tip that the bomb is a bomb, just to get rid of people, that the public in Serbia wouldn't hear what Serbia is going through with this kind of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5233	Mr. Krassic, you're absolutely right. A new law on the Assembly and amendments to the Rules of Procedure will solve all possible misunderstandings. In Voting Day, according to Mrs Radete's proposal, MPs will decide who may have broken the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added in front of article 1. The government and the Education Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has Mrs. Radeta first, and then Mr. Vesenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the Law on Higher Education was passed in the National Assembly, when it was a matter of serious debate, then we Serbian radicals made our point that such a law was extremely bad, that this so-called law would be. The Bologna way of studying, which, by the way, has not been accepted in most EU countries, is something that will destroy generations of students, or future diplomats in Serbia. That's when we reminded ourselves of that time of introduction. The Shuvar system in Serbia's secondary education. Everyone, at least the ones I know, feels damaged by a general high school education that they missed during that period. I think, Minister, you agree with that. Besides, when we talked about that law, you shared our opinion. When it comes to higher education and when this law is passed, we have also warned the ruling majority of how much damage this law will do in Serbia. And then we talked and now we repeat that much less damage that has been caused in Serbia for the past eight years due to criminal privatisations, due to various affairs, commissions, etc., because all that materially one day is responsible for power in Serbia slowly, for many years, will certainly be able to return or at least lead to some limit that will allow Serbian citizens to live a decent man, from which Serbian citizens are now far away. What destroys the Law of Higher Education, these are generations of young people who study and who are educated by a system that will make them semi-educated. I have no intention of insulting any student when I say this, because I've talked to many people and they all share that opinion. So we accept it, otherwise we do it, accept what no one wills. I remind you, the Bologna Declaration is not binding. If it were binding, it wouldn't be called a declaration. We didn't have to crash and get into a situation now to change the law (only two members). I have heard, Mr. Minister, or I have read somewhere, that you have announced the adoption of a new law on higher education and I really expect, given that your views from this Parliament are familiar to me when we were fellow MPs, that this bill will be something that will introduce a healthier and more normal form of education in Serbia. Now here we are, before these amendments to the law, three members, would say man-- well, what now, three members of the law are formally changing, but those three members of the law, or, better say, one amendment to Mrs. Jorga, have made general chaos and confusion among students in Serbia. We have an announcement that today the students will gather. But what's this about? Here, I'm going to read to you, let's say, what's done in one of the colleges, in which way, by applying this law and so on, I'd say, wrongly understood autonomy in colleges, that some students will never be able to complete the college within the deadline that this law provides, and in any case, a large number of students, not by their own fault, but because of some transitional deadline, because of some decisions made by student parliaments, which the deans of the university make, etc., will happen that some students will not be able to enroll this year at all, and that they will remain in their lives, that they will steal the Law of Higher Education, so without their guilt. For example, at the University of Stomatology, the conditional subject for enrolment on the fourth year until last Thursday were: anesthesia, dermatovenerology, dental diseases, dental prosthetics, oral pathology, and unconditional are: surgery, internal medicine, ophthalmology, genetics, ORL, neuropsychiatry and infectious diseases. The decision of the Teacher's Council of 16 October 2008 decided that conditions would require anaesthesia, dermatovenerology, tooth disease, dental prosthetics and other two cases of choice, which were not the condition until 16 October. What does that mean? If the students had been informed of this in time, at the end of last school year, it might have been justified and meaningful, so maybe they could have had time to prepare some more exams, but this way they were brought into an incredible delusion, that they had to prepare, in a few days' time, at that dental school, two more exams, and it's known that these are difficult exams, whichever they choose, and it's really impossible to do. The only way, Mr. Minister, to overcome this problem is to allow all students to enter unconditionally in the following year, not only for graduates. You know, it's the same if someone is going to lose a year of life during the second year of study or at a time when they're graduates. It doesn't matter, he loses that year, so he loses. So if you really want to help all the students, the only way is to make it possible to sign up unconditionally all the years, because if you don't do that, then not all students, or a lot of students won't have a chance to finish college. A group of students, from one college, were at your place for a conversation, Mr. Obradovic. You probably had more groups of students, but I, honestly, don't want you to recognize who I'm talking about, because I don't want these students to have any problems because they've spoken to the SRS parliamentary group asking us to help them at least in this way that we're going to publicly present their problems and the fact that students know what the SRS' position is when it comes to higher education and secondary education, and now I'm going to do it again for the public. The position of the SRS is, I mean, high school or college, that students should not be enrolled by taking an entrance exam, but by opening their college doors to high school diplomas. We talked a lot about it, you know how one entrance exam can undo all the knowledge that freshmen have achieved during high school education, and we still think that they should all have the same chance, that they should all go to college, that all regular students should go to school for free, and those who are not able, for whatever reason, to finish college in due time, then they should, of course, pay their tuition and that's how colleges are financed. You, Mr. Minister, are something like that the other day, or these days, because it's very current and you've often made statements, and you've also said that you're going to advocate and advocate free schooling and that's certainly something that deserves support, but it's not good to wait with it. I'm going back to what's now controversial for students who can't enroll in a year because of these changed conditions. It may happen, for example, that some student, who is otherwise a good student, industrious, hardworking, in this previous school year for objective reasons, couldn't lay down all those items that were conditions for enrollment of the year, could have happened to have had some tragedy in the family, that they were sick, that they had to leave with their parents because they had to go abroad to work. So there are really objective reasons against which we can't do anything and no one can do anything, and such young people will be left without being able to enroll next year, or, at the very end of the day, without being able to finish college within the time limit this law provides. It's clear to us, of course, and it's clear, believe me, to the students why it's done that way. For one simple reason, because colleges have introduced enormously high scholarships, I hope you agree with that, and that's how they take from students, or their parents, an unprecedented number of money. We have to stop it. Whatever it is, it's one of the sources of funding students, self-financed students, but we can't do it in a way that we can patch up holes and make parents sell property so their kids can enroll in their next year's study, as self-financed students. And some don't have it either, so one number of valuable, smart and intelligent children will be left without the ability to finish college. On the other hand, what was planned by this law, I remind you again, when we were saying that we were going to get into this situation, the inability to apply the law, then the majority of the congregation laughed at us, and here came the time for payment and, unfortunately, what we were saying was going to happen. Why are we still in this situation? Because students are being forced, conditionally forced, indirectly, to study at private colleges. That's not good. Of course, we have an opinion about it, too, but now is neither the time nor the time to talk so much about it, but there's no reason anyway. You know, what's happening right now is an absolute and pure abuse of university autonomy. You can't make anyone study at a private college if he wants to study in public. If you ask us, state colleges are still prestigious compared to private colleges. Maybe one day it'll change, but the way things are now, we're pretty far from it. You know anyone can open a private college. You know how to get credentials. It's all known to everyone in Serbia. How much abuse, how many former ministers opened colleges, we never knew, nor how they got the funds to open colleges directly from the ministerial chair (you know already which ministers are concerned). A special story is how they all got accreditations and how all their colleges were to admit it, but they were to admit everything until the student, finished, with a degree, came to work somewhere – well, then there is, of course, a problem. Here, 15 minutes really went by fast. I'm sorry I overstepped a little time. I'm going to say one more sentence, actually I'm going to ask the Minister a question. What's going to happen to colleges that haven't gone out to students, like this Stomatology, there's more of them, and is the Ministry ready, and does it have any strategy to help students sign up unconditionally this year so they can continue to study by law? If you do not do so, you will be responsible for the loss of a large number of students a year of life due to the application of the Bologna Process. Thank you, and I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5235	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Zoran Krasic and has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5236	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you know that when I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is a serious injury. I'd like you to take a look at Rule 136 of our Rules of Procedure and better understand what this is about. The proposal for this law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education states that the Law on Higher Education was adopted in 2005, that in 2006, there was one amendment and some authentic interpretation in 2008. I consider our member 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should also be interpreted in the following way – that if the Government, as a legislator, proposes within three years of the date of the adoption of a law, proposes amendments and amendments to the law, then the minister who was in the post at the time of the law's adoption should be eligible. It's very simple and simple. Why? Because the National Assembly has been spinning some 70 laws for years. Changes and additions, changes and additions, changes and additions - what? - the same laws. When the bill is considered here, and when we point to problems, then this side, regardless of the aggregate state, says -- you don't know, you're not European, this is the best thing, you can put on bread. It's been a year, then the minister remembers something's wrong, so he proposes amendments and additions to the law. Come on, you waste paper, let's waste time, let's waste MPs' time, but some amendments come and strikes turn out, demonstrations in the state. For what? Because the first minister, when he proposed this law, was probably not reasonable or in good conscience, and we pointed to problems that would happen. And here, today after this change and the addition that you're about to adopt, and I hope with three or four injuries to the Rules of Procedure that you're going to get together in enough numbers, it means that we're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure is in order to get together, because you're having a hard time gathering, and the real question is, do we even have the Bologna Process in our law right now? We have a process, but the process can be a Benigan, and it can be the other one, God forbid. What they swore here, Democrats -- it's the best, it's going to be -- here it is, now it's stuck, it's stopping. Now our students are in one process. They're not in the position he was in, say, Srdjan Milivojevic, about the cost of the state, they're funding themselves, they're finishing college, they're videoing horses, and they're saying, "Come on, European laws here." Now these European laws are hitting my children, not your children. That's what this is about. That is why this Rules of Procedure should be refuteably interpreted and ministers punished if, after two years, they gain an ex-post mind and see that they have done something wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5237	Thank you. In this particular case, it is about amending and supplementing the 2005 law, and the Government's policy, or proposals that have been submitted to us, is, of course, in line with the Constitution and the existing laws. The word is Mr. Zoran Shami, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5238	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on this amendment. I can't talk about that second amendment because there won't be a debate since the government accepted it. Right now, let me say my position on the original text of amendments and additions to the law. My colleagues from the DSS and I made it clear, and based on what we talked about back then, it was clear that the DSS was ready to support the amendments and amendments to the law with all those arguments that we said at the time, which I don't want to repeat now. In the meantime, however, Mrs Jorge's amendment appeared. In some ways amnesty to Mrs. Jorge, it is essentially an amendment to the ruling majority, or, if you will, the Government, which drastically changed the initial idea of the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education. Now based on this amendment, which has become an integral part of this law because the government has accepted it, we are in a position to make two completely different categories of students. On the one hand, we have those who, when they passed the entrance exam, were better placed and...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5239	Please allow Mr. Shami to hear and speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5240	I apologize to the ruling majority, but I'd like to say something. If you're not interested, go outside and talk. So, we're going to get into a situation where we have two categories of students -- one, who started out on the burden of budgets and others, who, either because in a high school class, had a slightly weaker success or didn't have their own day when the admission exam took place, then signed up deservedly on their expense. But it is not deserved that when they enroll in the second, third, fourth year of college they continue to finance themselves even though, under the provisions of this law, they can have a far better result than some who are on the budget. Mrs Jorge's amendment has somehow protected students who are on the budget as white bears, while at the same time bringing students who pay for their own education into the situation that, regardless of what they can achieve a significantly better result, they continue to pay for their education. He also brought us, I mean the state, in this case the current government, into a situation that still one day says that the state can't pay for all those who meet these already reduced conditions, or we've brought the scale down significantly, I think we've brought it down with reason and justification, but I say, we're going to get into a situation where a large number of young people rightly are dissatisfied. For the request of the students now heard, that all those who meet the conditions be enrolled in the cost of the budget, is absolutely just. The only problem is, and I'm afraid the state won't have the money to pay for it. Of course, we can now deal with demagogues and promise students that when they get results, when this is it, but at the end of it all, I'm afraid, there'll be nothing. Right away, I wanted us on the Education Committee to reconsider the whole situation regarding Mrs. Jorge's amendment. Unfortunately, representatives of the ruling majority were not in the mood to open the debate. I think it's a big shame, because maybe by some additional amendment from the Committee, we could have fixed the matter. This way, we have nothing left to do but wait for the ruling majority to vote with all these amendments to this law, and on the part of the DSS, I promise that as soon as the law appears in the Official Messenger, we will propose new amendments and amendments to the law in the only possible direction, and that, as far as students who will be financed from the budget, it will be those first "en" students, and not by their grandmother and uncles, but by the result and success they have achieved. So the advantage will be those who have more points. In the case of an equal number of points, it decides 'gold difference', i.e. average in college. It is only possible and correct that, on the one hand, the thing would be fair, and on the other hand, to achieve our global state interests and the interests of the students themselves, to stimulate them to show the best possible outcome in their education. I'm sorry, I think these amendments and the amendments to the law were an opportunity, I listened to the initial discussions, I have the impression that all MP groups supported this original text, but I'm afraid that this stubborn insistence on something that the ruling majority imagined and what it realized through Mrs. Jorge's amendment has led us to adopt one bad law and that we're going to have to change that law very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5241	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an injury. 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure. Article 104 states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and Article 103(3) says: During the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way than any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. Madam President, you are required to provide conditions for those who wish to speak, to address the Assembly and the public from this pay phone. The conditions for such a thing did not exist before, nor did Mrs. Radet speak, nor did the previous colleague who spoke of the amendment. I can understand the dissatisfaction of the left-hand side when we speak and appeal to the Rules of Procedure, but it insists on the agenda. We've moved on to the agenda and speakers on this pay phone have to get used to the people on the left. As much as you are instructing the lack of this Rules of Procedure, I think he gave space in article 86 for all of you who do not want to listen to the debate to go, to leave the session and to come to Vote Day. Where you're going to spend your time, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. When it's voting day - it doesn't matter either, but by then you can go, talk nice and talk at the bar or down at the restaurant. Therefore, I ask you to allow MPs who wish to speak in normal and appropriate conditions. I think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If I am not satisfied with the answer, I will certainly ask that the Assembly be made known in the day of the vote. Of course, I'd use my time on a note you just said, that you have no fear of the MPs of the people. You have no reason, either, or you have, but I would ask you and everyone else who can in this case react seriously to take one suggestion, namely the reaction of one of your fellow MPs, Mr. Vladan Jeremic, who presented the problem that happened to him yesterday or the day before, anyway. In fact, at the door of his family's apartment, someone drew a cowardly cross, a Nazi swastika, and there remained a foot on the door of the boot that hit the door. Mr. Jeremic called the police neatly, reported the case to the police. However, from his conversation with him, based on certain conclusions, it seems to us that the competent state authority has responded quite indecently in this case. So I ask you to use your authority, show real concern for your fellow MPs and appeal to the competent state authorities to do the job properly and bring the perpetrators to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5243	Thank you. About whether there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I simply didn't want to irritate you, because I couldn't strictly share the breach of the Rules of Procedure with regard to the disturbance of the atmosphere here on one side. Look at what the joke looks like right now; who's standing there and who's talking to who. I just didn't want to answer because I couldn't agree with you to hurt the Rules of Procedure you were talking about and focus on only one side of Parliament. Would you like to make a statement on Vote Day? Yeah. Thank you, that's how it's gonna be. Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5244	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like only for a few minutes to draw your attention from a very important item of the agenda, and you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to warn that the borderless patience that MPs of the 'Forward Serbia' group have is not at an end. The goal we set ourselves is very high. But yesterday there was an incident at the meeting of the Committee on Industry, when the chairman of the Committee of Mr. Buha didn't give a word to MP Zoran Antić and said to him, "You can't get a word because you're not a People's MP. Mr Zoran Antic could not participate in the work of the Industry Committee because one MP interpreted whether he was an MP or not. If it falls on one MP, then this assembly has nothing to do with it. So please, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, or to ensure that the session of the National Assembly takes place according to what the MP asked before me, which is that whoever has nothing better to do goes to the restaurant, whoever has nothing to do in life but only knows how to knock on the bench, go to the restaurant, or to ensure that committees and session of the National Assembly do or resign. The president of the National Assembly represents and represents the National Assembly. If you are unable to solve this problem, perhaps someone else will be able to solve it. If there isn't one in your ruling coalition, let's go to the election. But that someone here, who no one has proven is not an MP, and has confidence that he has been chosen as a MP... (Not like you, Todorovic, you're a serious man. Come on, those who don't know what else in life is gonna do, I get it, let them bang, but what are you banging at? You know very well that it's their last banging in these benches. ) So, for the last time, please, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, make sure that you respect the dignity of every MP, and I invite you, dear ladies and gentlemen, to once in the Sava Center to do something similar to what we are able to do, and then beat you to the will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5245	I would like to join the findings of Mr Dragan Stevanovic and Mr Nikolic, that we should create a working and dignified atmosphere in the Assembly, but we will agree that my appeals, and especially punishment, cannot regulate it. I ask all of us to take part in creating such an atmosphere. Mr Batic Vladan, according to the Rules of Procedure. First came Mr Batic, then Krasic, then Aligrudic, then Todorovic. That's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm also a member of the Industry Committee and I'd like an explanation. I don't want to arbitration between the two opposing options of the once-integrated SRS, especially if I don't favour anyone in that conflict, and not those who try to present themselves as the European right. Both sides are far from the European right, but the fact is that something happened at the Committee on Industry session that is not really in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, nor is it in the spirit of normal work of the National Assembly. What's this about? The Committee's session was held. The board can't pass any legal acts. There were more proposals to reach the Committee's conclusion. If the board's conclusion is made, and if that's possible, I'm setting it hypothetically, then the proposal has to be in writing. Mr. Milorad Buhha, on the basis of what was heard in the discussion, has verbally formulated the proposal of some conclusions and, not to mention further, put it to the vote. Mr Zoran Antic also voted for that conclusion. I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's been said and I see today in the paper it's been determined that this conclusion has been given to most of it. Then Mr. Antic answered his word. The president of the Industry Committee, Mr. Milorad Buha, did not allow him to participate in the discussion, arguing that he did not give the citizens a word, but said - the vote is fine. Well, how is voting okay if a citizen doesn't have the right to vote? It would be funny if it wasn't tragic. Madam President, it is your duty to regulate the way the Assembly and its committees function, so that this situation does not happen, because no one has the right to take another's word because he thinks that the other one does not have the status of a MP. As for the gas story, it will continue. Here, for this speaker, she was launched, among other things, and some who are the most responsible for the situation, but can't take a commission right now. They introduced a commission to get gas, I mean gentlemen from G17. Now that it's gone, it's somebody else's fault. A man scratches where he itches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5247	Krasic Zoran, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5248	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in line with Rules of Procedure and Article 27, I must charge you with this situation, because I could not accuse the absent Boris Tadic. He, a man, flies across the country and abroad, allegedly doesn't care about this, but what he cooked, you, who are most, must eat. It's the fate of parliamentaryism, I must tell you. I did, or the SRS did, as you instructed, and we took that legal course. Cases have been filed, criminal charges filed. It's about common knowledge. I'd like to ask you to use your authority and charge the Republic Public Prosecutor to proceed with this criminal report as soon as possible. Whatever she wants, she can throw it away, turn it down. If rejected and rejected, the SRS shall proceed with its legal protection system. But that the situation is irregular, that's a fact. I'm just surprised that you don't warn some of them here when they're calling for certain beliefs. There are 78 credentials about the election for MPs, and it says: SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj. I keep telling you: we're looking for 78 seats, we're looking for the President of the Administrative Board, which belongs to us, and representation in that respect. I don't understand that you're letting anyone out here to do anything. He can't, he must have some legitimacy. You've made one party without respecting the Constitution and the law. Not to mention morale, it's long since been crushed, here in the Assembly there has been a new party, the regimeal party Boris Tadic, and now we have Boris plus... Not to mention, since we don't take it in our mouths. There he is, running away. There, that's my destiny. I don't want to talk anymore as soon as he's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5249	Thank you. On your behalf, on behalf of the Members of the People, and on behalf of myself, I ask all the authorities who need to make appropriate decisions to make rapid dynamics, and in accordance with the law and the Constitution, to act and inform us. Until then, we agreed to work in this sort of... (Zoran Krasic, from the post: That's what we agreed with Chomićka. )......................................................................................................... We did, we did. The president of your parliamentary group... Of course you have a different attitude... Please, you asked me. I'm obliged to answer. It is clear to you, as a man who is well aware of legal science, and who both the Constitution and the laws well interprets and knows well, that the decisions made by certain authorities will be binding for all of us, and indeed I call on all competent and actors of the work of those bodies to work as dynamically as possible, to speed up their work and inform us about it. And I ask that by then we have an atmosphere that will still be in line with the suggestions that you give yourself, that there should be and rule in this congregation dignity and work. Mr. Milos Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5250	Thank you, President. On the basis of Article 100(1), and in relation to Art. Items 1 and 226 are replaced by the following: I am going to KIM very soon to meet as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with members of the families of the missing persons, within the framework of a parliamentary investigation that the Council of Europe is currently conducting and on the allegations in the book of Carla del Ponte. In this regard, since I will soon have to leave, and Article 225 of Section 1 says that MPs must be informed, they have the right to be informed of everything that is relevant to their work, I am using this opportunity to inform them of my position on the law that is on the agenda, and on the amendments being discussed today, which guarantees that I will be very short within the time at my disposal. The basic text of the law when it was passed, and was brought during the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, was the result of consensus of interested groups, starting from university workers to student organisations. After all, more people at the Ministry of Education literally worked day and night on the text of the law until it was adopted. At that time, an agreement was reached, which must be made publicly, between the university on the one hand, the Student Organisation on the other hand and the Ministry of Education, that this law, as it was brought, in the form in which it was surprised, may later and should later suffer certain changes depending on what practice shows from the deficits of the law in its practical application. That deal shouldn't be forgotten. He was an integral part of a consensus when it comes to the legislative initiative. Because even though the Ministry, the Government, is actually the initiator of this law, the Assembly has brought it. It is obvious that certain other factors in this society, other segments of society, must also be asked when the text of the law itself is concerned, and about the application of this law itself and about any changes. Since what has now been done, the Amendment of Jagoda Jorge and the adoption of this amendment by the Government of Serbia, in fact, ruined that consensus and disappointed a very important interested group when it comes to the application of this law, it means that the DSS will certainly not vote for this law now, regardless of the positive intentions that existed at the very beginning, when the draft text of the amendments came before us, because then we had a different intention. But I have to repeat what Professor is. Shami, before me, said that the DSS, following a trail of what I was just talking about, as soon as this law comes into force, and I believe that it will be brought to most of the vote, because the ruling majority will always do so, will certainly submit a new bill on amendments and additions to this same law, but starting first of all from communication, which we hope to have with both student organisations and with university officials to bring about something that is consensus in the application of this regulation. It's the only way we can function, and what the ruling majority has produced (if intentionally or accidentally) on this occasion is certainly something that our society and the university don't need at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5251	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I am reporting under Rule 104, the MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. And you, Madam Chairman, should respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, you have allowed the Constitution and the law to be violated most brutally in the Serbian Parliament. You allowed people and one man who admitted to taking party documentation to be an MP and that this assembly was having trouble working all the time. How do you plan to overcome this situation? By letting all this take place, counting on you to need help at some point, that you will need a certain number of MPs, those who have kidnapped the mandates of the SRS, and you will continue to allow political prostitution, which was before, or a cattle market, as some have called it, to walk through this assembly and try to get honest people to leave the Serbian Radical Party. Mrs. Dejanovic, you are responsible for this. As far as morality and honor are concerned, they've shown who they are. You were not, among other things, at the meeting of the Assembly yesterday when I showed the signatures of MPs and requests from the SRS, one vice-president of the Assembly, for the replacement of the chairman of the Administrative Committee, which was signed by two MPs. That was September 9th. They signed at that time and after a few days... They didn't spit on the signature, they spit on themselves. That's what people are like. And they're talking about morality. They say they are Serbia's future. If the future of Serbia is those who steal, it is poor Serbia to which they will be the future. They stole mandates from the party and not only did they not have a future, but they ended up. And whether the SRS will sit in these benches or not, that's what you'll see. Anyway... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They will sit with their merits and voices of Serbian citizens. As to whether someone's banging or not, it doesn't matter much. Looks like some of them are completely crazy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5253	According to the Rules of Procedure, Savik Nikola; then Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. To remind you, it is a member of the National Assembly. I will quote the position of the 4th member: "The President of the National Assembly takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly." So, among other tasks, that's the job of the president of the National Assembly. Of course, the work of the National Assembly's working bodies should be harmonised with the law, the Constitution, with the Rules of Procedure and with parliamentary practice and that the composition of these working bodies should be proportionate to the number of seats won in the elections and distributed to the parties. However, in this House I see a certain group of people who are not MPs. I must remind Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic how the mandates are won. Not to go far, there are two basic conditions. The first condition is to participate in the elections and the second condition is to cross the census, i.e. the natural threshold when it comes to members of national minorities. This group of people sitting in this House does not meet any of these two basic conditions. Moreover, in front of Serbia's general public, they admitted that they had not participated in the elections, that five and a half months after the election they had founded their party. Of course, everyone has the right to start their own party, I don't mind it, but it seems to me that on the day of the party's establishment they might have chosen October 5th, a day that is suitable for both their conduct and their manners, because we know what happened on October 5th eight years ago. They, in turn, tried to make October 5th in the U.S.S. but, fortunately, failed. However, they took one of the saddest dates in the history of the Serbian people for the day of their party's founding, and that is the day that as many years ago as we all know it, a whole generation of students in Kragujevac was shot. To be more ironic, such a date was taken by a man who was born right in Kragujevac. Of course, who's asking him? It is not his question, the US Ambassador Cameron Manter, who was present at the rally, and who handled Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5255	National MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5256	I'm calling in an article. 27th and 104th because I think there's been an injury. Of course, I have to call you because Boris Tadic is not here. He won't show up in this room because he's made his own party, he's now in a phase where he's forced to rest, he's signing some declarations, he's establishing some unity, he's making peace with everyone and everything, etc. I came forward because I get the impression that, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there's probably something wrong with you when you're in some way holding back your personal knowledge. The problem is much greater when there is complete knowledge in the Serbian public. Full knowledge in the Serbian public is... Something's wrong with the man, there's a problem. I know he took off all the mirrors in the house, 'cause they're shooting as soon as he looks at himself. ) Mrs Đukić, there is knowledge and it is based on recognition. One man said, "I took my resignations, I lost my resignations." He made the official correction unusable and it is not available. On the basis of this knowledge, it is a generally known fact that what is in Article 102(2) can be applied. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But Boris Tadic won't do it. The public in Serbia needs to know: this is condemned by all political parties, only Boris Tadic (not all DS, only Boris Tadic) says: let them, should press radicals and a nationally conscious part of the population in Serbia and should serve as a means of pressure against tycoons. Remember, there's no ideology here. They're funding one tycoons to squeeze another tycoons. When they squeeze enough, then the other tycoons will pay you, so there won't be any further squeeze. If they get into parliament, they'll be fine because they'll be able to legalize it, and some sparrows say it's been done in the last few years by those who made a party that didn't participate in the elections a few days ago. We all know that it's about citizens, more or less exemplary, these new ones that come probably exemplary, and those that make with roots, they're not exemplary. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, can you imagine the situation of taking from the City Committee the Kragujevac laptop, then leaving the party, and the laptop is run as the property of your municipal board? Would you return that laptop? You'd come back, I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5257	You speak 30 seconds longer, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5258	I know you'd pay back, but there are others in Kragujevac who don't think to return.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5259	Mr Krasic, it is quite clear to you that in office of the President of the Assembly I cannot, nor is it logical, do any investigative activities or criminal proceedings. You know who does it if there are elements to the work you're talking about. Your suggestion to me, what I'm supposed to do, is absolutely inappropriate. You know that well, but I must say this for the public's sake. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: He also asked about the laptop. () As for that, he himself said what I would do. Marina Ragush, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I thank Minister Obradovic in the first place for being present in the debate on this agenda point. To inform you that the SRS had requested some time ago to explain why the eight colleges of Belgrade University raised tuition prices to 60%. We also asked, trying to find the responsibility of MPs, to provide us with a transparent cost, or where the students' money goes to colleges. It is simply that I am almost convinced that you will do your best to improve the situation and status of academic citizens in Serbian society, and we will try, on our part, to really help that story out. I am now addressing the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I am also convinced that you will do your best to find an answer from the authorities and an urgent response to the emerging situation and recognition of Helena Ranta of the circumstances that occurred in the village of Račak in 1999. She said a while ago that she was actually forced to falsify a report that was the basis of aggression on SRJ. We also remind that the SPS was the first to draw attention to a terrible falsification that served as the basis for the indictment of former Serbian and Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic's murder. Another emerging situation, which is very dangerous for the national sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which is something that MPs have not been informed about. An agreement on US participation in the EULEX mission in Kosovo and Metohija was signed. Therefore, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I ask that you react without delay on this matter. So 80 American citizens' officers will participate in a mission that will be operationally capable since December of this year. So, this is a very important situation, which should be examined, with one indication that has seduced us, but it is not surprising, given that the master race, the American race, is taking place everywhere in the world, where, among other things, it insists, according to the agreement, Washington will ensure that its officials perform the mission in accordance with the joint action and operational plan of Eulex, and any disciplinary measure will remain in the jurisdiction of America and the status of US members of the mission will be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. (President: Time. I apologize for overstepping, just to finish my thought and thank you for your understanding. Mr. President of the US Embassy, the SRS MP club, with this distraction, tells us that he survived the coup and will continue and insist on creating a strong national state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5261	Part of the content of your speech was released yesterday and Mrs. Komic referred you to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, but it is obvious that you have expanded it today on a new topic. I think, within the framework of the Assembly, the Security Committee could be competent in this matter. Thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Chikiriz, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would ask all the MPs to keep in mind one thing: the public is looking at us, and we all make a contribution, we raise the rating to this institution, or we crash it with our performances. Here is the minister of education, the public is very interested in a law that is on the agenda, and I think colleagues from the SRS and newly formed parties should no longer burden the public with their disputes. We, even, suspect that there may have been some arrangement to divide into two columns, and then after a joint creation of absolute power. Because, you see, the newly formed party also says it was founded on the principles of the Serbian Radical Party and will fully follow what they have done for 18 years. On the other hand, Mr. Vukic says that only a month ago he matured and saw that he was politically wandering, which could be a trick to attract some voices that you couldn't attract. Therefore, we will appreciate the political action of both parties in the future, but I would really like to return to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5263	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you see, if you would follow the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article. The 27th and 104th that I now intervene in would certainly make this Parliament's work much more effective. You allow, colleagues from other parties have begun to react, to speak from this place some who are not MPs, who appear here from time to time. Of course, as far as we're concerned, they shouldn't even show up because they don't belong here. You must understand that you are the only one obliged to agree with Boris Tadic, tell him that you have problems in running this parliament, in performing your post, because he does not allow people from his party to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you have MPs here telling you that they have resigned from the SRS, that they have entrusted their mandates in accordance with the Constitution to the SRS, if you have 60 people who confirm this to you and who tell you that someone in Bajcetina told them that their resignations were lost, or stolen, or unconsciously treated other people's matters, is that not enough for you to act in accordance with Article 102 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the MP can have his mandate by entrusting it to a political party? We entrusted our mandates to a political party. Of course, you'll probably say, because you tend to say that, that some other organs are responsible for that. Yes, we filed criminal charges for crime, for theft, against Tomislav Nikolic, and we're not stopping it. And we'll file a report to return two laptops, Mr. Krassic. Two laptops he stole, not one. So, this is something that we do in the second ordinary procedure, and this Parliament, namely you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, ask us to allow us, the MPs of the SRS, to present here the views, ideas and ideologies of the SRS, whose president is Dr Vojislav Seselj. And what someone says when they come out here, that's completely irrelevant. You know what the people say. It's not what they told me. It's who told me. Such a moral nugget, someone who's... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... (ending, thank you) So morally low, it really doesn't touch any of us, anything to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5265	Mrs. Radeta, Mr. Boris Tadic is certainly very informed about the politics and ingenuities of the Assembly. I can't possibly be a transmitter between you and him. The political atmosphere in the Assembly, I assume, is presented by many MPs of the SRS. So, you in this way, by means of the media, you want... And what you're talking about, that you need to talk to him, is what those people who are ideologically closest to him do. Although we've made reconciliation, although our programs are largely identical, I couldn't possibly take over that function. As far as further work goes, Marina Ragush is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5266	On the basis of Art. 225 and 226, as well as violations of the dignity of the MPs, members of the SRS parliamentary club. Mr. Chikiriz, this isn't really about a personal conflict, this is about conflicted two ideologies. Serbian radicals are in full media blockade. We cannot react differently to certain attitudes but, at a congregation speaker, in the context of what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly permits. We apologize if it interferes with your attention and concentration, and does not allow you to work on the established agenda, but simply, our mandate is to pay daily attention to everyday life in Serbia and democratic assets that were promised in 2000 under the definition of the previous totalitarian period. What's been up to date in public lately, here's a chance to finally answer that. A man who, according to some, has subordinated Serbia's interest to his own personal interest is in The Hague tribunal, and imagine that, in the detention unit, for six years now, with a constant derogation of the right to a fair trial, only because he is in the way of the totalitarian ideology of a world power. So, I'm just going to remind you of that, and the public, of course, is asking and asking us, that this man, in time, said that the Serbian people were on the way to totalitarian ideology, which has been trying to swallow it for ten years. First the whole, and how, because of the desperate resistance of the Serbian people, she couldn't, then she swept it apart. They took away Serbia's Bosnia, Serbia's Hercegovina, Serbia's Macedonia, Serbia's Dubrovnik, Serbia's Dalmatia, Lika, Banija, Kordun, Slavonia, Serbia's Baranja, occupied Kosovo and Metohija, switched to Montenegro, the Rusk area and Vojvodina – this is Dr Vojislav Seselj, once professor of the Law Faculty in Belgrade, wrote a number of years ago, and unfortunately, as you can see, this is happening right now. And that is the answer, and we are obliged to say this to our voters and the general public in Serbia, to how much this man has subordinated his personal interest to the national interests of the Serbian people. From this pay phone, we are very open to all Western diplomacy that the Serbian Radical Party has survived and will continue to carry out a consistent ideology of Serbian nationalism. So here we are, from this place, telling you that together with Noam Chomsky, Edward Herman, Michael Mendel, Jelen Guskov and all the world's greatest intellectuals (I apologize for overcoming, ending this thought), we will succeed in destroying the neoliberal totalitarian ideology of the American administration, both Washington and Brussels, and creating a strong Serbian national state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5267	Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5268	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I must inform you that you and V.D. are under certain conditions. President of the Republic of Serbia. I must inform you that you are also the president of the National Assembly. I must inform you that, according to all our knowledge, you are a patriot and a righteous man, who holds to morals and all that is human traits, and that is positive, good human traits. I must inform you that this question, which has been in the interest of the National Assembly for a month and a half, has been answered and resolved. All you have to do is have a coffee with Mr. Tadic and tell him that his intention has been discovered, that he knows what he's up to. And I have to tell you that the National Assembly is in one illegal state. It's not the first time. The National Assembly used to have, according to books and those voting instruments, 317 MPs, in one period, a little longer, 287 MPs. And I need to distract you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic – all those who tell you that this issue should be resolved before the Constitutional Court, lie to you. This question cannot be resolved before the Constitutional Court. I just remind you that in a similar situation, when it was an old constitution (the new constitution is much clearer in this regard), so, in that seemingly unregulated situation, the problem was solved by the Assembly establishing the end of the term of office of two G17 Plus MPs, and they addressed the Constitutional Court as a constitutional appeal and conducted some proceedings. We don't mind doing the same thing now, and let those 16 years conduct the procedure before the Constitutional Court. But the SRS cannot conduct proceedings before the Constitutional Court. That's the prank you're pushing us into. Of course we won't get into that prank. Well, it's our wish that when Tadic sinks, he sinks with this burden. That's what we told you on the first day and we'll tell you all the time. You have created a party, a regimeal party, which should fear, support, bringing such topics into talks so that the National Assembly escapes reality. Does anyone today want to talk about Kosovo and Metohija? Here is Canak, he says - the International Court has already recognised Kosovo and Metohija's status. Well, I have no intention of dating these guys, but you're making me do them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5269	Time, Mr. Krassic. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word. Your MP group has seven and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5270	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the motion to amend the Law on Higher Education was, when it came to assembly procedure, fully acceptable for our Assembly group of DSS. We felt that such changes should be supported, especially because it was a requirement for students who wanted to have the possibility, during the period of adjustment of the Bologna process, to move on in a different way and with easier conditions in the coming year, so that their parents and they themselves would not suffer, above all, material damages due to the payment of high scholarships at Serbian universities. We also realized that it was one of the pre-election promises that the new government should fulfill. Nevertheless, we felt that this law should be accepted. However, to surprise us from the DSS parliamentary club, the amendment sent by the parliamentary majority of the government has accepted, i.e. the resolute minister has accepted the amendment, which is the essence of the student demands and the request agreed by the Rectors Conference, completely distorts the students, so that they are placed in an unequal position. Worst of all, this way of amending the law puts students in a fully subordinate position, i.e. there are those who are privileged, whose status is protected by law, i.e. one normal system of values, that those who are the best, those who achieve the best success and the most valuable are in the course of the year, do not have equal opportunities with others to move on to budgetary financing, i.e. that, if they are worth it, if they achieve successes, reduce costs for their parents by not paying tuition. It is widely known that Serbia has an average age of 41.3 years. It is widely known that the number of written Serbia is among the last in Europe. Even more famous is the fact that it was the DS, which led the congregation's majority, who counted on the student population most and promised European education. The fact is also that these students in most cases supported such pre-election promises, apparently false, and here's how they're coming back today, with these changes to the law. That's why today you have, like the previous days, and I'm sure for the next few days, thousands of students in front of the government who are looking, rightly, for their rights and fulfillment of their pre-election promises. In this way, a negative selection, a negative system of values, is fully established, and I am afraid that this is also being implemented in practice. Here, I'll read you an example of an undeveloped community, which is shutting down, which is borderline and where 35,000 people once lived, and today barely 17,000, where they're mostly old people. Your favorite TV B92 has published on its website the following content: The new municipal government in Kursumlia, led by DS, is now replacing people in public enterprises and institutions financed by local self-government. The problem, however, is that non-professional persons have been placed on individual executive posts. For example, in a public-communal company, a plumber named Darko Lazarevic was appointed as director. At the same time, the director of the Tourist Organisation, graduate tourismologist Radovan Tanaskovic, was appointed as the waiter Slavko Ilic. Here's what kind of system of values is being established in this community. For such decisions, municipality president Zoran Vukkovic has reason to believe such an agreement is within the ruling coalition. The board members are appointed by political and family lines, local merchants, auto carriers and housewives. Thus, the shift and selection of the new principal of the "Drinka Pavlovic" elementary school is a crucial vote by the local auto mechanic, who is not even referred to in the decision-making procedure on the board. Now I can't say anything officially and in detail, I don't know what the board of directors or what personal rights are, we'll see, I'll ask someone who understands it a little more -- said auto mechanic Dragoslav Gizdovic. A man, of course, has nothing to do with it. It's set up by political will. It is the most beautiful message to young people, whom this Serbia is hungry and who are beyond the need of this country, that they should have European education, that they should study diligently and diligently and that tomorrow, when they learn something, they will be able to apply it - where? Nowhere, because in places where the executives are supposed to be and to help those municipalities where they come from with their knowledge, and these are mostly undeveloped, waiters, auto mechanics, housewives will be placed in their places, and they will be sitting on the desk waiting for work. That's how the Democratic Party leads the country to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5271	Thank you. The word is Mr Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5272	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm just going to say a few words about amendments to the Higher Education Act. The law itself was passed with high ambition, in the previous period, that it could be converted into a new way of working and studying without any major problems, which proved to be unfounded. Life and practice have shown quite something else. That's one fact. The second fact, in the law itself, is the possibility that 20% of students who will be financed from the budget will increase in the coming years. With this amendment and the addition of the Law on Higher Education, 20% of these are still detained. Therefore, the spirit of the law of the previous period was preserved. Probably when the law was passed earlier in 2005, it was estimated that enough of that 20% expansion, for students who achieved good results, and that would be enough space to enroll those students who subsequently showed good results. We had a situation, as I said, that the existing law showed a lack of character in this regard that a poor assessment was made about how it would be reassessed by what the new study and work regime is on the Bologna Declaration. For these reasons, changes were to be made and complemented in terms of making a certain scale and the number of points that will be enough in the coming school years to make the enrollment of regular students, but in any case, I want to say this, without the intention of glorifying what is offered, it is very difficult to interpret what is going to happen after the test period rounding the school year, as it was also difficult when the law was passed in 2005. It's very important that we are aware of these unknowns. It is necessary to complete the test period, to draw a line, to see how many students have reached the condition and can enter the next school year, how many students who have achieved better results, who have been out of the budget and who can be included in the budget financing in this space of 20%. If the result of all this is such that there are drastic problems in the sense that this law has been implemented in some way and a negative selection, i.e. made it impossible for a larger number of students who have achieved very good results and others outside the budget, it is certainly a subject for discussion with the Minister of Education, and this announcement that certain parliamentary groups will propose a new law on education, of course, will do so for a reason if this is what I was talking about. But that exclusive right doesn't belong to them alone. The Socialist Party of Serbia, i.e. the Parliament Club, after one such analysis and epilogue, and an overview of the overall situation, if there are problems in this regard, will also propose to amend and supplement this law in terms of one positive selection and respect for what are the good results of students, regardless of whether they are now on the budget or outside the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5273	Thank you. No one's answering anymore. The People's MP, Jagoda Jorg, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The government and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Professor Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education, want to give the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5274	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. To be honest, I have a moral and professional obligation to say a few words about this law. It's a small law, but a lot of questions have been asked. I'd like to remind you, we talked about this on October 9th, and today it's 23rd. It's been a long time, and in the meantime some students have gone out to the streets, and I've talked to them, but I'm saying this because there have been a lot of questions in the debate today, and I absolutely think they deserve an answer. What I would like to remind all of you, dear fellow MPs and the public of the Republic of Serbia, is that this law has been amended with the idea of creating conditions for more students to enter. This is not possible if this law is not adopted and the number of points needed to register the year is not reduced from 60 to 42. That's where the story starts and ends. That's the point. It's a free story about all the other things, if it's this much, if it's that much. If the law doesn't pass, if the law doesn't create a condition that 42 points will be the condition of the year, then we're free of this funding story. Because the existing law, I'm going to remind you, predicts 60 points as a condition for enrollment. Think about putting some colleagues on the stand when they talk about the law, government decisions, etc. I think, and I've already said it several times, that this law comes out as much as possible to meet the demands of the academic public, which includes students. Why? Because this was discussed at KONUS, a Conference of universities, state and private, the Republic of Serbia, which was attended by representatives of the Student Parliament, from Belgrade and Kragujevac. There were words about the content of this. Then it's agreed, we put it through the text, that the condition for this year is 42 points, the next 48, the next 54, and that when the whole of Europe is fully applied to the Bologna system, and we're part of that system with 60 points. To really be one process, and in the meantime to look for answers to questions as to why the results were like this and why there was a need to amend the law. I have to tell you that in the discussion at KONUS there were also words about this part, whether all students could be on the budget. Some rectors said all students should. I said -- okay, but if all students are supposed to be on the budget, then give the state the right to determine scholarships. He doesn't want the state to determine scholarships. Then we get to the bottom of this -- whether the state really has the opportunity to budget everything that I'd like, and I don't think anyone in this room can say that it would like to, but the question is whether the state can do it. If he can, he'll do it, if he can't, he'll say it. That's what I told the students on the 13th, when we met. There were 11 of them -- three from the Student Parliament, two from the Union of Students, fellow political scientists, two from the Faculty of Architecture, Economic and Philosophy. So I did not hide from them anything that the Republic of Serbia should not and the rest of the public should know. I asked the students if they were comfortable with this bill, whether it was appropriate to cut the number of points from 60 to 42. They said it suits them. I asked them if it was appropriate for the state to finance the fifth year for those who failed during the four years to finish. They said it suits them, of course it does. I asked if they were comfortable with a part of my colleague Jorge's amendment to explicitly establish that the budget is for those who are on the budget, and those who are self-financed to move to the budget if they are part of that 20% quota, i.e. to explicitly determine that they retain student status. They say it fits. So as not to create an opportunity for colleges to interpret on their own whether or not they can, since the formulation in the existing law was 'can hold'. What's wrong with you? They say we don't fit the 20% quota. All right. But, dear fellow MPs, the truth works, it's part of the existing law, Article 84(4). – In the following years, the number of students in the 3rd position of this member may be increased by no more than 20% compared to the previous year, in accordance with the decision of the competent authority of the higher education institution. Completely undeserved to colleague Jorge, there was an avalanche of criticism that now, behold, she's making something up. It is part of an existing law, which has been applied for two years, and I would ask critics of this solution to pay attention when the law is passed. I would remind you that the state of Serbia has 197,660 students at the state colleges. Of which, at this point, she's funding 111,958. Plus high school vocational studies of 49,786 students 14.728. It's a terrible cost, and it doesn't have to be hidden. Why tell students it's not like that when it is? I told them, fellow students, I can, as Minister of Education, ask the university to extend the enrolment until November 1st because the law will be in the process. Under the law, if adopted, and I expect all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of this law, regardless of how much they have to do with the percentage of self-financing, that only after the adoption of the law, by the end of the October exam deadline, will we know exactly how many students have met the requirement for next year. Then we'll know whether the state can also financially endure that all students who gave the condition, 42 and more points, can be part of the budget. I promised them, and now publicly, once again, I will go with them to the finance minister and then we will talk. Those attitudes were repeated by counterpart Jorga and another good number of MPs. I have to tell you, I didn't have a problem talking to the students. I had the 13th talks in my cabinet, yesterday a fellow State Secretary Radivoje Mitrovic, a colleague of Janko Guzian, State Secretary of Finance, a colleague from the General Secretariat, from the Treasury were also present, and we understand the students in the good part. If you want, and we understand each other, it's just that this part remains, that after the deadline is over, we sit down to see if the state has financial opportunities. We don't have that problem. The problem arises in public from the point of view of some other stories. And unfortunately, I have to say, compared to the first talks, the story has spread in the meantime, so then we get the demands of students who contain things that the Ministry is unable to meet, because it's not competent. Of the four requirements we have received, one refers to the number to be entered, saying: We consider a scandalous decision by which students will be unable to change their status a week before the deadline for enrolment next year. They didn't meet the condition. If we don't change the law, the condition is 60 points. Once we change the law, the condition is 42 points. Only then is 42 points. So if we don't pass the law, 22-30% of students will sign up. If we pass the law, that number will, hopefully, be over 50% and live in college, students will learn and teachers will have a more complete situation in college. This is about the unconditional enrolment of final years of studies for all students. For those who don't know, and I have to say, that part of the requirement applies to those students who study in previous programs and are covered by the 2002 University Act. I must, for the public's sake, say, Article 42 regulates their way of studying, so it's said, "a student can enroll next year with," and then it's listed, "a student can enter the final year of the study", so it means, "if he passes the exams from at least half the teaching classes or the corresponding number of teaching classes of the previous year of study according to the statute of the university. The statute of the university sets out teaching courses which the student must submit as a condition for enrolment in the following year." College statutes, respected colleagues. It's not a matter the ministry decides on. That's the thing colleges decide on, autonomously. The students who are looking for this should know that we are not the address - neither the Assembly, nor the MPs, nor the ministry - but the colleges, because the statute of the university is established there. The third position was: the suspension of the charge of the transferred points from the previous year. In agreement with the students on October 13th, I said that the next day, the next day after the interview, I would send an educational inspection. The educational inspection was 16, 17 and 20. Now they're making a final report, but it's undeniable that colleges on their own have charged students with expenses at which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the ministry, people have no right under the law. They used a provision that says colleges can decide on other issues related to education and admission policy. That should be made clear. Article 87. The law on higher education says: A student who himself is financed is defined, in accordance with the student programme, on as many items as it takes to achieve at least 37 points, which is a condition. A student who self-finances pays a part of the tuition, calculated according to the items for which it is defined. Colleges charge for everything. They don't ask him what his share is, or what he's defined himself for, but they charge everything. If they charged him a year's tuition once, then he can't be charged again. And then you should just say it. If you ask me what mechanisms are in front of the ministry, as asked by my colleague Ragush, I thank her, we will see it very closely, with the Secretariat for legislation in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where we will apply the appropriate measures. We don't want students on any basis to be in an inferior situation. They're not to blame for this. They're not responsible for this, but they have to deal with the situation at individual colleges. I'm conscious of what I'm saying, at some colleges. It must be seen exactly how decisions are made and who takes money from students on behalf of high goals and future diplomas. The students are being brought into a very unpleasant situation. We all graduated from colleges, schools and stuff. Put yourself in the student role, is he in a situation, really, that his dean, the teacher with whom he should pass the exam, says -- listen, you're taking my money illegally. Well, of course not. And then the easiest thing -- please, look for justice in the assembly, in the ministry, in the government. But this is a problem that's inside the university -- individual. Fourth thing - high school fees. They're high school fees, and they need to be reduced, and I told the students on the first day that I became a minister, because I have great co-operation with people from the Student Parliament, and I have great cooperation with the students' Union, and I said I'm looking for their support, that next year in June the scholarships are lower, but that's what colleges decide. And we're coming back to college. If all students move to the budget, which I would like, but the government, the finance ministry, decides on it, then the colleges will send a request for material expenses the next day and they'll say, you know, they're all on the budget, we don't have any expenses... And we boasted, I would remind some critics that in 2003-2004, since I found a text that we boasted in Europe that we had a great idea of a system of higher education, where one part of the budget, or colleges, is part of the budget, is self-financed, and part of it is on the market, and then it's an ideal variant that shows both the independence of the university and that we very rationally found a way to make it work. Dear colleagues, if all students move on to the budget, and I repeat once again, I would like it if the state can, but that should be clearly told to the students, we should not lie to them, and that is what we told the Ministry of Education to them and said – if so, what if not? And if it doesn't, we'll tell you how things are. If all the students go to the budget, the colleges ask for the cost of material maintenance and then what kind of situation do we have? I must tell you, the budget of the ministry is 1,342,388,000 euros. Fantastic suspicion. But 97% of that amount goes to personal employee incomes, 125,000 people. I had a conversation with the unions yesterday. While my colleague Radivoje Mitrovica, government secretary of state, spoke to students, I spoke with representatives of the three representative unions in the ministry. We agreed on how to improve the material status of employees and the situation in education, what we should do strategically, and whether there are conditions to apply the provisions of the protocol that foresee possible increases in the personal incomes of employees, the third so-called. A tranche, if there are conditions for it. There's nothing to hide. We have 3%-4.1% of the budget for all levels of education, and for preschool, and for primary, secondary, for high, for student loans, for student loans, for awards, for student homes, for student homes, for technical resources and maintenance. Not to mention investment, I guess we should be building schools and preschools in Serbia. Look at the situation with 3%. Then the easiest thing to say is state. But the state has its limit, and that's fair to say. I told my colleagues -- if we tell colleges we can't give more than what we're giving you or possibly increase something else, they'll say -- that's not enough for us. Then we get to the finale of the story. The next June the tuition will be enormous, because they'll say -- sorry, you didn't let us finance ourselves, from other sources we can't get money, the situation at colleges is such that there's age and equipment and buildings, we have to go through scholarships to provide conditions. So how do we appeal to other arguments, say tuitions are high? I told the students and, believe me, I don't have a problem with students, neither I as a minister nor we as a Ministry, because we don't lie to them. We're telling them the truth, and the truth is, this law is good for them. It's good because it's going to increase the number of high school kids. He's good because most of the students are going to sign up for a year. It's good because most of them will get higher education in the short run. One more thing, you know, we're going to either, not just because of these discussions today, in the future, we're going to get into amendments and additions to the law or we're going to pass a new law. My colleague noticed that, and I was talking about it. Whether there will be new law or amendments and amendments to the law, depends on the number of objections to be made to this law through the debate. But the Ministry won't do it alone. They'll work together with colleges and universities, because we want to hear from them two things that matter. First, why do we have the results of what we are doing, which are the causes of these results, to change the curricula, the programs, the behaviour of teachers and students, to improve the whole process of education, to really be part of the European system of education, to know who is doing what, and for what it does to receive adequate compensation according to financial opportunities. The second is to solve these other problems. Let's see what's wrong, so we can do it through the amendments and the additions of the law or through the new law. You can't get away from that. Whoever the minister is, he can't get away from it. The point is that we want to improve that, and there is absolutely good will with us. There is a good will in the government of the Republic of Serbia to address this problem to the satisfaction of all, and if not for the satisfaction of all, then to the satisfaction of the majority. I said 111,958 students are funding at the moment. It's fantastic figures and I can't, as a minister, take the obligation to say-- well, it's all right, you'll be part of the budget. It's not a fair relationship to those I'm talking to, and especially not to my colleagues, but we should all sit down together and see which solutions are best for the students. At the very end, there are problems and students need help. They need help in those parts where they can't go to college and exercise their rights. We, as a ministry, stand absolutely at their disposal, but I will, in the end, ask you, to call you, to vote in favour of this law. No matter what you think about some of his parts, whether you refer to the previous or future consensus, this law is necessary for students. The state needs it, too. Students also have reasons to look forward to this law because, when this law is passed, conditions will be created to enroll as many as possible next year. And then, after 1 November, when the review deadline ends, my colleagues from the ministry and I, with counterpart Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister, sit down and talk, exactly on the basis of exact data, will see what is the number of those who gave the condition, which are below the 20% line, and then decide whether they can, or not, be part of the budget. So nothing hidden, all clear and public, and all in the interest of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5275	Dear Members of the Parliament, allow me to thank Minister Obradovic on your behalf for the crystal clear explanations of the reasons for the amendments and additions of this law. I would say that part of the secret answer that he did in such a way in the fact that he has been in this Parliament for a long time, that he knows in some ways how such a minister should address himself, but we must admit that what he owns is Mr Obradovic and a gift of nature. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, Unity. Since we have carried out a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly carried out that search, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby set 23 October 2008 at 13.00 a.m. as Voting Day for All Points of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. [[After break – 13.05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a bill on the protection of personal data, in principle. For 130, it did not vote 6, out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric, by written means, have withdrawn the amendment to Article 45. It's a bill of law. An integral part of the bill has become amendments: Citizens' Protector - Art. 1, 6, 10, 11, 31, 40 and 44; National MP Vladan Batić - Art. 8, 11 and 40; Srete Perić - on Article 14; Judite Popović - on Article 16, with correction, as well as the Committee on Justice and Administration - in Art. 29, 35 and 45. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision. MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 7, out of 135 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. By 7, versus 127, they did not vote two out of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Jerkov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, versus 128, there was no vote of 8 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 126, four of the 139 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 10 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 9, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 135, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 137 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 118, five out of 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, v. 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote five, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 22 of the amendment, with correction, is submitted by the Citizens' Protector. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment, with corrections, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 14, against 121, one abstention, they did not vote four, out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 121, there was no vote of 8 out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 35th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 11 out of 139 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 126, one abstention, two of the 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 130, six of the 144 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Civil Protection Officer has submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 121 abstention one, two of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 122, two of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The Civil Protection Officer submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 13, against 121, four out of 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 9, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 59th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, it was not 13 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on protection of personal data, in general. One of the 138 MPs did not vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of personal data. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONFORMATION OF THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL WITH REGARD TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF FACTS ON THE AUTOMATUSION OF PERSONAL DATA WITH REGARD TO THE SURVEILLANCE AUTHORITIES AND THE PRETTY PROGRAMME Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before the transition to decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow, in principle. One of the 138 MPs did not vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data with regard to Supervisory Authorities and Cross-border Data Flow, in general. For 136, they did not vote two out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the confiscation of property Prosthesis from CRIME After the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a crime, in principle. For 128, against 7, two out of 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Slobodan Maras, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarevic - on Article 11, which was proposed to add a new stance 5; Zlata Đeric - to members 2, 9, 23 and 28 and submitted new amendments to the same members and Srdjan Spasojevic - to Articles 28, 41 and 43 and submitted new amendments to the same members. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Zlata Djeric to Article 9. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 124, there was no vote of 10, of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 126, 12 of the 145 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment, together, was submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 128, he did not vote one out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Ivan Andric, Slobodan Maras and Zoran Ostojić submitted the 7th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, versus 127, three of the 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, v. 128, of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 10 out of 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In 9, against 126, two of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Ostojic and Ivan Andric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137 of 137 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 128, 9 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 14 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 128, 10 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 14 out of 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, v. 125, there was no vote of 11 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 14 of the 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 10 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, versus 127, 10 of the 145 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, 12 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, there was no vote of 7 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 13, out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric, Slobodan Maras and Zoran Ostojić together submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, v. 125, a abstentioned one, was not voted by one of 136 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, it was not 13 out of 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 11 of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion for a law to confiscate property from a felony, in general. I repeat the vote. I ask the MPs to concentrate a little. Please, it's no pause, I made a mistake technical something. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. It's okay, now I'm asking you to repeat the vote. I'm putting the motion for a law to confiscate property from a felony, in general. For 128, against 7, two out of 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the confiscation of property arising from the crime. We move on to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW on the Liability of Criminal Persons Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the liability of legal persons for criminal acts, in principle. For 137 MPs, of 137 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 10 out of 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric and MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government has not accepted the amendments, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendments be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendments legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 11 out of 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 12 of the 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 12 of the 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 10 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 10 out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, no vote of 10, of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 12 of the 136 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 63rd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 11 of the 137 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 70th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee is proposing that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 9, out of 137 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on legal persons' liability for criminal acts, in general. For 137 MPs, he did not vote one out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on legal persons' responsibilities for criminal acts. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN BANK FOR REFERRED AND IMPLEMENT OF THE "BELGRED AUTHORITY AND THE PURPOSE" As the National Assembly carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all national MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development "Belgrade highway and bypasses", in principle. For 137 MPs, he did not vote one out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development "Belgrade highway and bypasses" in general. One of the 138 MPs did not vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development "Belgrade highway and bypasses". We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK "COURT OF THE BELGRAD" Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search of the bill and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all national MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The Bill on Belgrade", in principle. One of the 138 MPs did not vote for 137. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The Bill around Belgrade" in general. For 136, they did not vote two out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Balgrade around Belgrade". We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal FOR A SIDE LAW After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on foreigners to the vote, in principle. For 150, they did not vote four out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 26 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 27 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 28 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, v. 127, there was no vote of 25, of 161 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Grujic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 128, they did not vote 22, out of 161 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 30 out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 30 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 27 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 26 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 25 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 31 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 26 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 29 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Mr Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 28th amendment together. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137, there was no vote of 16 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Mladen Grujic submitted the title above article 30th. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 128, it did not vote 24 out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, he did not vote 31, out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, 29 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, he did not vote 31, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 50th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 125, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 57th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 26 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 26 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 26 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the 75th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 126, there was no vote of 16 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 25 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 129, they did not vote 22, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras submitted together to the 76th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, v. 127, there was no vote of 16 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 78th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, they did not vote 24 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras together submitted to the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 125, 15 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 127, against two, abstentions two, did not vote 20, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 84th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 125, 25 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 22, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted the amendment to article 86. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 23 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 23 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 87th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 126, there was no vote of 23, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, they did not vote 24 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Marina Toman has submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 23 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft foreign law to the vote, in general. For 159, they did not vote three out of 162 MPs. The National Assembly passed a bill on foreigners. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the State Borders Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the protection of the state border, in principle. For 160, they did not vote three out of 163 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 128, it did not vote 32, out of 160 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 123, 29 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 124, there were no 28 votes, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic - Markovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 142, 12 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 126, a abstentioned one, not 27, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 128, it did not vote 25 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 27th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 126, there were no 28 votes, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 22, against 127, 12 of the 161 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 127, it did not vote 28 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 10, against 126, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, out of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. One, against 127, was not voted 26 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 127, there was no vote of 27, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 56th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 10 against 120, 29 of the 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 64th Amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 124, 33 of the 157 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Against 127, it did not vote 28 out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote for the Bill on the Protection of the State Border, in general. For 154, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of the state border. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE CONSERVATION OF THE FUND CONTRIBUTION OF THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL As the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, most of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, in principle. For 136, it did not vote 13, out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of the MPs. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, in general. For 135, it did not vote 12 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the confirmation of the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe by majority of the votes of the MPs. We move to the 10th point of the agenda: – Proposal for AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUPTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, in principle. For 136, it did not vote 11 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. As the National Assembly accepted the Bill's proposal in principle, I find that an integral part of the bill became the amendment of the People's MPs: Srdjan Spasojevic - to Article 22, Maja Vidinović - to 26, Zoran Kasalovic and Dejan Radenkovic - to Article 29, Zoran Kasalovic - to Article 30, Konstantin Samofalov - to Article 36, Saša Dujovic - to Article 39, Nada Kolundzija - to Article 39, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac - to Article 50, Maja Lausevic - to Article 55, Milan J. Nikolic - to whom he proposed that a new member of 82, and Djord Milicevic - to Article 83. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Ambassador Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of the law, Chapter I and Articles 1 and 2 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 20 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, against 126, 16 of the 148 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Verica Radeta has tabled an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter II and Articles 3 and 27 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 129, 20 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 124, 17 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras submitted the 10th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137, a abstentioned one, no vote of 10, of 148 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras submitted the 14th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137, there was no vote of 11 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Ostojic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 128, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. MPs Judita Popovic, Ivan Andric, Kenan Hajdarevic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Slobodan Maras submitted the 21st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 137, against one, it did not vote 9, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, it did not vote 19 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milorad Buha submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter III and Articles 28 to 39 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, he did not vote 21 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zeljko Tomic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Nine against 125, two abstentions, were not voted by 11 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Milletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven against 120, two abstentions, were not voted 18 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 11, against 122, it was not 13 out of 146 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 106, 23 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter IV and the members of 40 to 43 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 25 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment proposing the name of Chapter V and Articles 44 to 50 are deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 21 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 44th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 126, 12 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 9, against 126, 12 of the 147 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VI and the members of the 51st to 58th be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, 21 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VII and the members 59 to 62 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 22 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter VIII and members 63 to 68 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 18 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Pai Momcilov submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter IX and Articles 69 to 72 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 20 of the 144 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter X and Articles 73 to 77 be deleted. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 20 out of 145 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The proposal to delete the name of Chapter XI and Articles 78 to 83. National MP Momir Markovic submitted an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter XI and members 78 to 83 be deleted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 18 of the 144 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, in general. For 134, 10 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the beginning of a session that was scheduled for 15 hours will have to be delayed for at least 30 minutes, so I ask you to be patient and be in this session. We move to 11 points of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Financialisation of Political Parties. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, in principle. For 134, 10 of the 144 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, 17 of the 144 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, 18 of the 142 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Škrbic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 16 out of 143 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17 by 142 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 18 of the 141 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 15 of the 141 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, in general. For 135, it did not vote 7. Of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE DECLARATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (SERBIA'S FINISH INSTITUTIONS) After the National Assembly has conducted a search under the proposal of this law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia" (measures for environmental protection in lignite thermal power plants). For 135, it did not vote 6, out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (Modification of the environment in lignite thermal power plants), in general. For 134, it did not vote 7, of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on granting a guarantee to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivred Serbia" (measures on environmental protection in lignite thermal power plants). We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. For 135, it did not vote 7. Of 142 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment submitted to Article 2 by the People's MP, Jagoda Jorg. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Proposal to add a new Article 1 in front of Article 1. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added to article 1. The government and the Education Committee propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 141 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in general. For 135, against one, it did not vote 9, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPOSES OF THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the proposals for decisions, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members decides most of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group since 15 July 2008. For 143, five of the 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group since 15 July 2008. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the G17 Plus parliamentary group since 26 September 2008. For 141, it did not vote 7, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the G17 Plus parliamentary group since 26 September 2008. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the New Serbia parliamentary group since 17 July 2008. Nine out of 148 MPs voted for 139. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group since 17 July 2008. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the PUPS parliamentary group since 4 August 2008. For 138, it did not vote 10 out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the PUPS parliamentary group since 4 August 2008. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the SPS-JS parliamentary group since 4 August 2008, with a correction since 2 September 2008. For 139, there was no vote of 8 out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - Unity Serbia since 4 August 2008, with a correction of 2 September 2008. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group - Unity Serbia since 7 October 2008. For 141, six out of 147 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group - Unity Serbia since 7 October 2008. A year. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia since 9 September 2008. For 143, they did not vote four out of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia since 9 September 2008. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group on 29 September 2008. For 138, a abstentioned one, 9 did not vote, out of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group on 29 September 2008. Since we have come to terms with all the motions for decisions, I ask if you agree that all adopted proposals for publication in "The Official Messenger of Serbia" as a legally-technically united act - a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board? I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two out of 148 MPs voted for 146. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal. We're moving on to a decision on employees' injuries. Since the session shows injuries to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the violation of Article 100(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. 1. National MP Milos Aligrudic, at a session on 7 October 2008, at 13 hours and 40 minutes and 19 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a member of the 27th Point 1 is injured. Rules of Procedure. For 14, against 123, 9 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has decided that no injured Article 27, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure. 2. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 7 October 2008, at 20 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to an injury. 100th and 136th. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 120, it did not vote 26 out of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. 3. National MP Paja Momcilov, at a session on 15 October 2008, at 16 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. Against 116, 29 of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. 4. National MP Nikola Lazic, at a session on 15 October 2008, at 16 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. For 10, against 123, 12 of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. 5. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, at a session on 15 October 2008, at 17 o'clock, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether or not the said member of the Businessman has been injured. In 10, against 118, 17 of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Six. National MP Dusan Maric, at a session on 18 October 2008, at 16 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 104, 1 and 2. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 119, a abstentioned one, not a vote of 125, of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Seven. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 21 October 2008, at 15 o'clock and 48 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For 7 against 122, 16 of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. 8. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 10 o'clock and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 201. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 122, 23 of the 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Nine. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 10 o'clock and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 201. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 122, 22 of the 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Ten. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 11 o'clock and 53 minutes, pointed to the violation of Article 27, Article 100 of the 1st and 3rd and Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 120, 21 did not vote, out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. 11. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 12 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 117, it was not 24 out of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. 12. National MP Mirko Munjic, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 12 o'clock and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 123, 18 of the 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. 13. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 12 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 121, 19 of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Ambassador Vjerica Radet, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 13 hours and 3 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 123, 17 of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the MPs have decided that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milan Avramovic, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 13 hours and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 23. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 121, 19 of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the MPs have decided that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Paja Momcilov, at a session on 22 October 2008, at 13 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 23. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 121, 19 of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the MPs have decided that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. At a session on 22 October 2008, MP Vjerica Radeta pointed to a violation of Article 201 at 13 hours and 49 minutes. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 120, it did not vote 20 out of 140 MPs. I find that the MPs have decided that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 23 October 2008, at 10 o'clock and 15 minutes, asked the National Assembly to decide whether the president of the National Assembly hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving a word to MP Suzanne Grubjesic before opening a debate on the next item of the agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 120, it did not vote 20 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the President of the National Assembly has not hurt that member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 23 October 2008, at 10 o'clock and 15 minutes, asked the National Assembly to decide whether the chairman, Gordana Comic, vice-president of the National Assembly, hurt the Rules of Procedure by not giving a word to MP Dragan Todorovic before opening a debate on the next agenda. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 120, it did not vote 19 out of 139 MPs. I find that the MPs have decided that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Stevanovic, at a session on 23 October 2008, at 10 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 117, there was no vote of 23, out of 140 MPs. I find that the MPs have decided that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. (The session is over at 3:30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5277	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL BELISH OTHER SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION 23 October 2008 (The first day of work) (The session began at 15.35 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 167 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 126 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, Assistant Director of the Treasury Office, Ms. Minister. I welcome them. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Thursday 23 October 2008, so within a shorter period than the deadline set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 25, 26, 29 and 30 September and 7 October 2008. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from the previous session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written objection to the minutes set out in that session. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 25, 26, 29 and 30 September and 7 October 2008. For 128, it did not vote 18 of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 25, 26, 29 and 30 September and 7 October 2008. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that, following an urgent procedure, the draft amending and supplementing the 2008 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the proposals for decisions to agree on amendments and amendments to the financial plans for 2008: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance, (b) the National Employment Service, (v) the Republic Health Insurance Office, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 October 2008 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 20 out of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2008 (point 2 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, he did not vote 21 of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Justice and Administration Committee has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 20008 is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, it did not vote 22, out of 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 21 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Vojislav Kostunica -- suggested putting the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 40, against 123, there was no 11 vote, out of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Olena Papuga proposed to put on the agenda a bill banning the manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For six, against 112, a abstentioned one, did not vote 35, out of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement "Providing improved services at local level" between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 14 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For two, against 120, there were no abstentions, no vote was taken 31, of 153 MPs present. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the proposal for a law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and the proposal for a law on residence and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance (points 2 and 3 of the proposed agenda). Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 124, against four, there were no votes of 26, of 154 MPs. I apologize, this was a merger point, not a adoption of the agenda, so we had an absolutely sufficient number and the proposal was accepted. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals for putting acts on the agenda of the session under emergency procedure and of the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. 13 of the 137 MPs present did not vote for 124. Tomorrow at 10:00, we'll make a deal, or I'll invite the heads of Parliament to a meeting. I'm taking a half-hour break. Today we'll be working until 18 hours if we agree to work. We'll continue work tomorrow at ten o'clock. Please, the agenda has already been adopted. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, with proposals for decisions on granting consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2008 Financial Plans: (a) the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, (b) the National Employment Service, (v) the Republic Health Insurance Office, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on the write-off of interest on commitments made on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, which the Government has submitted; 3. Proposal for a law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the judicial duty, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration; 5. A proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work on the established agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. One year, with the proposals for a decision to give consent to amendments and amendments to the financial plans for 2008. YEAR: A) THE REPUBLIC FUND FOR PENSION AND INVALIDIAN GOVERNMENT, B) THE NATIONAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES, V) THE REPUBLICAL GOVERNMENT FOR SPECIFIC SURVEILLANCE (principles) You have received that bill, with proposals for decisions made by the Government. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there any other suggestion? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5280	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, on the basis of the talks and arrangements of the heads of Parliament's clubs and the proposal of the head of the opposition's parliamentary clubs who asked for the total time of debate to be extended, on the basis of Article 94(3), I propose that the Assembly declare the total time of debate on this agenda to be ten hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5281	To make a decision, the National Assembly must have at least 126 MPs present. Before I put it to the vote, given that, according to the electronic voting system, 121 MPs are present at the moment, please, on the basis of Article 222. Rules of Procedure, members of all parliamentary groups shall identify electronically so that we can vote on the extension of the debate. The question of determining the voting quorum, given that we have established the quorum, is unnecessary, but I can determine the voting quorum if necessary. So we'll determine the voting quorum. Please, by respecting the Rules of Procedure, we register in the electronic system. Here you go. I find that we do not have enough MPs registered in the electronic voting system to decide on a proposal from the parliamentary group president's meeting with Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I call on all MPs to, respecting Article 222. The Rules of Procedure shall register their parliamentary cards in the electronic voting system so that we can make a decision, since there is an obvious difference between the number registered in the electronic system and those present in the hall. I find that we cannot make a decision, since there is not enough number of MPs and we are moving on to further work. The total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours and a half of parliamentary groups, the time has been allocated as follows: the parliamentary group "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 9 minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 24 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the minority parliamentary group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: The Parliamentary Group of Minorities has authorised Elvir Kovac to represent this parliamentary group; the SRS parliamentary group on item 1 of the agenda will be represented by Parliament MP Milorad Buha; the MP group "Forward, Serbia" will represent MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, the parliamentary group SPS - JS will represent MP Zoran Kasalovic. The word was sought by MP Rada Obradovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5282	Thank you. I'm advertising a breach of Article 151. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Rules of Procedure provide for the session procedure and has general parts relating to all the laws, but has a specific segment relating to the budget, where among other things it is said that the budget can be voted on at any time. The same member says he must receive a report from the Finance Committee before opening a search. Some other member says that for some other laws, that is, Article 139 doesn't have to be, because if committees don't deliver an opinion, Article 139, last position 5, then they can be discussed without it. However, in a particular chapter that applies only to budget-making procedures, it is explicitly said that before the opening of the search of the Finance Committee, the Assembly must submit its report and no gaps and the possibility of discussing it without the report is left. The Administrative Committee, or the Legislative Committee, I apologize, chaired by Mr Ratkovic, to present his report. I ask that the Committee's session be scheduled to create conditions for the session to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5283	The conditions for continuing work exist, as Article 151 reads: "The committees of the National Assembly and their reports with reasoned proposals are being discussed at the National Assembly's session of the draft budget. The Financial Committee shall consider the draft budget and reports of individual committees and shall report it to the National Assembly. "So, your interpretation of how this must happen before I say "opening the principled search" does not stand, since a report on the collected reports of the other committees can be submitted, and as decisions of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, and during the debate in principle and later, after the debate is concluded in principle. The word for breach of the Rules of Procedure wishes for MP Slobodan Maras and receives it on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5284	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I think this really looks like a joke. I'm not going to say that those who didn't insert the cards are responsible, but you were responsible for providing most of them if you agreed to this proposal. The LDP MPs who were here put in the cards. And we wanted to allow us and the other MPs to speak for more than five hours, more specifically to double the time. However, I have reported for violations of Rules of Procedure, Articles 151, and also Articles 131 and 139. I really think it is extremely irresponsible to begin the debate on the most important law, the budget law, more specifically on budget rebalancing, and that not one word of the Finance Committee has been heard from the Minister, has not been given what other committees have proposed, how you quoted Article 151, or any of us, members of the Finance Committee, have been given the opportunity to say anything, that the Minister may possibly explain to him why this budget rebalance, etc. The fact that we have such a situation that the chairman of the Committee is from a party that does not make up the ruling majority is no excuse. I really think you should be a little more responsible and the Finance Committee should be scheduled. What are we serving? We wanted to talk to the minister a little bit, hear about the reasons for the rebalancing. What it says in the explanation, it's as if it was written by someone who lives in another country or lived a long time ago. Privatisation in the next two months – what privatisation? Reduce unemployment in a country where we have an increase in unemployment in the first nine months? That's all the questions we wanted to discuss on the board, that when we get here, we might as well get some answers from you. It is not your fault, of course, that those who run this congregation, those who have the ruling majority, who have the majority in the Finance Committee. Why is that a problem? You always want us to keep our mouths shut, so we don't say a word about a single subject. You didn't even let us get a budget rebalance on the Finance Committee that we could talk about. In fact, we got it, but we didn't, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, get a chance to talk to the Finance Committee. Please, the Chairman, that you may at least allow what is strictly to be held by the Rules of Procedure. At the end of the line, it's consistent with common sense, if it's not with the Rules of Procedure. But then why do we and the Rules of Procedure and the Assembly if we can't discuss what we're responsible for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5285	Article 151 and Article 139 clearly speak about the obligations and work of the Committee of the National Assembly, both the Committee on Finance and the other committees. The debate may also begin if there is no report delivered by the Finance Committee, as we have discussed at the session, one law without the opinion of the competent Security Committee. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. This session can run. I am opening a principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2008 Budget of the Republic of Serbia and of the Single Search on Proposals for Decisions to give consent to the amendments and amendments to the 2008 Financial Plans of the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service and the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Before I ask if Ms. Diana Dragutinovic's representative wants a word, because of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word was sought by the MP Vjerica Radet, and by MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come forward on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, but I think it best that we suspend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since it is not respected at all in this House. What you ladies and gentlemen of the assembly majority are doing, how much you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, how you behave unbusinessfully, I don't think it's been recorded since the parliamentaryism in Serbia. It is amazing that today, in the voting day, you voted on whether Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic and Mrs Comic broke the Rules of Procedure, and it is absolutely the same case. For the sake of the record and for the sake of the public, I will repeat that Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic gave the word "Suzani Grubjesic" the day before opening the agenda. Yesterday, Gordana Comic did not give the same word to Dragan Todorovic. Today, I suggested that the Parliament be given a statement in voting day which of the two ladies respected the Rules of Procedure, which was violated by the Rules of Procedure. There is no such thing in this room, nor one who follows the work of this House who will not say that I am right, that we are right when we claim that one of them, either the President or the Vice President, has broken the Rules of Procedure. Absolutely identical situations, and you in voting day vote that neither one of them has violated the Rules of Procedure! So, such rape of rights, such behaviour by the parliamentary majority is indeed something unrecorded. Here, now it's all happening when it comes to Article 151. Mrs. Comic, we're not idiots. Tell us, we have a majority, we will do whatever we want, you complain, report to the Rules of Procedure, do whatever you want, we are a force, and it will be as we say. We can accept such an explanation, but if it says: "Before searching at the National Assembly's session", I quote Article 151, "the draft budget is being discussed by the committees of the National Assembly and their reports with reasoned proposals are being submitted to the Finance Committee, and the Finance Committee is considering the draft budget and the reports of individual committees, and this is the report to the National Assembly," and you say that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and that neither of the terms of Article 151 has been met, so this has been true since the world and centuries have existed. Such insolence, such an insolence of the congregation's majority over the representatives of the opposition is something incredible. I suggest, just because you're missing 126, unless you've been gathering for two hours, as you just weren't to extend your time, if there are currently 126, suspend the Rules of Procedure, what do we do when you don't respect it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5287	There's no injury to the quoted member. Today, the opening of the search is a respected Rules of Procedure. Article 151, and I'm glad he reads more of us, says the board will work and deliver reports and a member of 139 says, lastly, that the Assembly will work and unless the committees deliver an opinion. The opening of a principled search is neither prevented nor compromised by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly. He can work today and tomorrow and report on his work and reports collected by other committees to the National Assembly during the debate. As for the vote on the extension of the time necessary and prescribed for the debate, not all MPs who are very obviously in the hall have been recorded on the electronic voting system twice, I have asked that we respect Article 222. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which obliges all MPs to identify themselves with their MP card when entering the hall, and especially if it is such an interesting proposal, which was reached by agreement at a meeting of MPs' groups with National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that, on a proposal by opposition groups, there should be an extended time of debate. There is no way that the chairors of the proposal to vote in favour of their proposal do not really exist. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz. He gets a word based on Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I think the state is in big trouble; of course, for us from the DSS and this budget rebalancing proposal is proof of that, but we think that the state is in big trouble and that the state is concerned, and without the state there is no budget, let alone the rebalancing. Yesterday, an agreement was signed between the EU and the United States on joint participation in the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which the UN Security Council has not yet approved. Today, Daniel Fried, who signed an agreement on behalf of the United States, said, I quote, and I think that everything from the parliamentary majority or those who support this government should be of interest, especially the president of the parliamentary group: "The deployment of EULEX across Kosovo will be a key element for the country's supervised independence. "The supervised independence of Kosovo as a state, as a false creation, is foreseen in Ahtisaari's plan. I asked Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and I expect him to answer in writing, whether he is also behind what the President of the Republic is doing, as announced by Minister for Kosovo and Metohija. The President of the Republic should now inform the National Assembly, and ask him for a response, on whose behalf and with which right he negotiates, whoever he negotiates with, and we see in the media that he is also negotiating with some UN representatives and with some of the EU representatives about becoming acceptable to Serbia. What Fried said means only one thing - the application of Ahtisaari's plan. According to the resolution adopted by the National Assembly in December 2007, it is unacceptable for Serbia. We insist that a new declaration on the agenda related to the Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, to make a decision as the Assembly, and to make it clear whether the parliamentary majority, whether the executive power in Serbia, whether Boris Tadic means the same thing that some of these days have said to support this government and participate in power, such as Vuk Draskovic or Dragan Markovic Palma, that they support EULEX or that Serbia will go to the EU without Kosovo. By the way, seven MPs are from the two parliamentary groups. Is that what President Boris Tadic is behind and when he will... Yeah, you know that's behind it? And he's not talking to me? All right, all I know is that the MP from the Democratic Party said yes after what I said, the public knows it. So we ask that the text of the declaration be found urgently on the agenda and that the public in Serbia already knows what the ruling majority thinks about this issue. It's obvious he disagrees, since he doesn't agree on any of the issues, which we saw today at the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5289	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5290	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, business conditions have not been met to discuss budget rebalancing for the following reasons. Mrs. Komic, you are not a lawyer and I don't mind you so much, but I think Mr. Odalovic had to draw your attention to a basic legal principle, which is that something that specifically derogates something that is general. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 139 provided that the draft law before considering it in the National Assembly should be considered by the competent committees and by the Government if it is not the legislator. That's attitude one. The last position, paragraph 5, says: "If the committees in charge do not deliver a report, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will also be considered without these reports or opinions. "So it's some general provision that applies to all the laws passed by the National Assembly. In Article 150, the Rules of Procedure clearly defined the conditions under which the Assembly can adopt a budget, i.e. budget rebalancing. So the Rules of Procedure clearly set aside the budget from all other laws passed by the National Assembly. The provisions of Article 150, in relation to the provisions of Article 139, legal language, represent lex specialis. Article 151 states that the draft budget is being discussed by the committees of the National Assembly and their reports with reasoned proposals submitted to the Committee on Finance. The Financial Committee shall consider the draft budget and reports of individual committees and shall report it to the National Assembly. It is clear from these provisions that without a report from the Finance Committee, absolutely cannot begin the debate on the draft budget rebalances. He writes in Article 151: "The Finance Committee is considering the draft budget and reports of individual committees and is delivering a report to the National Assembly. "There are no reports from the Finance Committee at the moment. This would be not only a legal but also a political scandalous decision by the chairman that a debate on the draft budget rebalancing could be reached without a report by the Finance Committee. However, I understand the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament, they know that the Finance Committee is chaired by someone who is not a MP. They want to save themselves from confusion and shame, so now they want to force MPs, contrary to the express letter of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss the draft budget rebalancing even though there is no report from the board of directors, which is the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5291	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. I would just like to remind the MPs of the Serbian Parliament and the citizens of Serbia, when the MPs of the SRS went out for a pay phone and warned that the Law on Broadcasting was harshly violated, you also said that SRS MPs were obstructing the work of the Assembly. That SRS MPs are right to speak and today's press conference, namely a statement by RRA Deputy President Goran Karadzic. Television and radio stations that broadcast that event from "Sava Center" violated the Advertising Act that prohibits the transfer of all political gatherings, except during the election campaign, Beta was told today by the Radiodifuse Agency Council. The broadcasters who transmitted or broadcast the tape broke the law, Deputy President Goran Karadzic told Beta's agency and said monitoring would show what the broadcasters were talking about. Direct transmissions aired TV "Avala", and delayed transmission and footage of the rally aired several Belgrade TV stations, including cable stations. For law-bending broadcasters, more criminal measures are provided for. Look at the state we live in. What other parliamentary party has been allowed to transfer an assembly so far? Even the ruling parties did not use the law so harshly this way, as it was done by this new party. What can the citizens of Serbia expect when they violate the Broadcasting Law in this way? And the question is, who paid for those big hours, not minutes, who paid for it? Or are there sympathies? I don't mind, but you can't break the law. Now I'm interested in the reaction of the authorities, the extent to which the law will apply, and whether those who have violated will respond. Who's behind this? This is quite clear to you, just look at who is behind these media, or television houses, and everything will be clear to you; you will see how it is remotely managed by the parliament of Serbia and how all the decisions that are needed for individuals to crush another million of this poor people in Serbia are made.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5293	People's MP, the question was raised yesterday on several occasions and a service order was given to send a stenogram. We can't treat news agency reports as an official document, but in any case, you gave information that clearly shows that there were reasons for asking questions. As the National Assembly, we expect an official response. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5294	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, in front of the DSS parliamentary group, on the basis of the members of the 225th and 226, the question that we are persistently asking and no chairman wishes to give an answer – when will the People's Assembly's agenda finally find a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija? We are witnessing that these days, by the highest representatives of the Serbian state, statements are coming that accept the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which is actually being moved. The targets of the mission are reportedly being denied in order to give the Serbian public the impression that it is a welcome mission, which should bring good to Serbs there, and these days we hear from policymakers towards Kosovo and Metohija, specifically from Daniel Fried, that it is precisely the goal of the mission to carry out supervised independence. We've been wondering for a while why you're not here. Today in one vote, when the agenda is adopted, we find that the ruling majority does not exist. When the agenda was adopted in this National Assembly for the Agenda, it was the first time that the majority of MPs voted. Such a large decision as the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija should be declared by the ruling majority and presented its policy in the National Assembly. We can no longer watch what is happening in the southern Serbian province and call again on you to invite the National Assembly president to urgently schedule consultations so that the National Assembly gets answers about what the ruling majority's policy is, whether the ruling majority even exists and whether it is gathering on such topics as Kosovo and Metohija. We want to send a message to our brothers in Kosovo and Metohija that the policy towards Kosovo and Metohija is solid, consistent, continuous and that we do not accept the Eulex mission, especially that mission that Daniel Fried has qualified today, that it is the Marty Ahtisaari mission and the independent Kosovo mission. Show here that there are 124 MPs, that there is no more blackmail for ambassadors and other positions, but that you are running a single policy, so that we can encourage our countrymen that the state of Serbia really wants to preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Please schedule a session to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. It's a shame he hasn't said a single word about it in four months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5295	National MP, according to the rules on decision-making on the agenda in the regular session, this session that started today lacked a proposal to discuss your resolution immediately. If you had delivered it in the Rules of Procedure within the prescribed time limit today, it would have been decided whether or not the resolutions would be. So, I can only give you an answer on form and procedure, and for political arrangements are responsible, of course, for all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, together with the president of the National Assembly. If an emergency procedure was submitted to the National Assembly regarding the resolution of any promoter, the Assembly would be obliged to declare it. Of course, it is logical that there should also be a previous political agreement on this. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), so the People's MP Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5296	Although you, Mrs. Comic, are famous for loving to comment on the presentations of MPs, sometimes inappropriately, sometimes inappropriately... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5297	People's MP, I ask you to treat the National Assembly with respect. Respecting Article 104, none of the chairmans comment. The chairman is obliged and has the duty to provide an explanation after any MP is asked for and received a word on the basis of Article 100(1) because he noticed that a member of the Rules of Procedure was injured during the procedure of the National Assembly. I warn you to stick to all the rules of address prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5298	Obviously, Mrs. Comic is angry with you. If you'd told me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5299	National MP, I have given you a warning that you treat the National Assembly with respect and that you respect all the members of the Rules of Procedure you call upon in order to contribute to the order and respect of procedures in the National Assembly. The language we use is the language of form and procedure, and I really ask you to stick to it in your presentation as you call for a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 100, and you have been given the floor to talk about it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5300	If you would let me finish, you would see that my report is exclusively directed towards respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't mean anything by it. I think someone pissed you off, but if you could tell me what the problem is, I'd be happy to help you. You are a charming and lovely lady who with great decentness runs the sessions of the National Assembly and, believe me, you and I are at the same job, so we want to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I just want to help you to have this session have its own course as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When it comes to budgeting, if budgeting were to be put in the same line with the adoption of all other laws, I guess there would be no specific provisions in the Rules of Procedure concerning budgeting. Then the adoption of the budget would be subject to the same rules and would be subject to the same legal regime as the adoption of all other laws. But according to the Rules of Procedure, the debate on the budget takes place under stricter conditions than the debate on all other laws. Why? Because budget and budget rebalancing are nothing more than a plan to spend people's money. When deciding to spend people's money, it has to be a stricter regime than when it comes to passing all other laws. It is so in all parliaments of civilised and democratic states. The parliament of the Republic of Serbia is not an exception. So, Article 151. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are absolutely clear: the debate on the draft budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing, cannot begin until the report of the Finance Committee arrives. There are no dilemmas. Even those who are not lawyers must interpret Article 151 in this way. It would not be good, Mrs Comic, that behind that intention to discuss the draft budget rebalance without the report of the Finance Committee is in fact the ruling majority's desire to in some way silence the opposition MPs, not to hear the attitude of the opposition parties, primarily the SRS, as the main opposition party, when it comes to budget rebalancing. We have very sharp objections to budget rebalancing. We believe that there is nothing in the budget rebalancing of what you promised the citizens of Serbia. There's no sign of that socialist internationalism you're referring to. You promised a better life, bigger wages, bigger pensions. Instead, citizens have received an increase in the price of gas, an increase in the price of telephone impulses, an increase in electricity, gasoline and oil derivatives in Serbia is announced, more expensive than in any country in the environment, and this is a topic that you in some way want to bypass. Mrs. Komic, believe me, I have an honest intention to help you conduct the National Assembly session properly, but there is no proper session and there can be no valid debate on budget rebalancing until the MPs receive a report from the committee of directors, the Committee of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5301	The session is scheduled and running in accordance with Articles 151 and 139 and has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the appointment of the session. The session of the Finance Committee, when it collects reports from other committees, may take place during our principle debate and the report may be delivered at any time during the session. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic. He wants to speak according to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5302	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I ask for an explanation of who knows which time, and we are not particularly satisfied with the answer of the chairman when it comes to resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija. By who knows what time I repeat that the ruling majority has no intention of putting the resolution on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Kosovo and Metohija. The arguments are that you, as the ruling majority, have twice put the resolution on the agenda on Kosovo, so you pulled both of them, because it is obvious that you did not have most of the 126 MPs. That made it impossible to discuss and vote the resolution. Secondly, you say you have no agenda for today's session of the Assembly resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. Well, on the previous one, you took it off the agenda most of the votes. How, then, can you blame us for having no proposal when you took this same proposal from the SRS and DSS parliamentary groups? The second thing, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija has not yet taken place, only a constitutional session has been held, as MPs of the ruling coalition, who make up the majority, do not come to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. The third thing, I went out for this pay phone three times and asked the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia to receive a delegation from the Community Assembly of the municipalities of AP KIM in order to clarify this, not by chance, daily warning to all that the installation of the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija, aimed at implementing the Martti Ahtisaari plan, is at the outset. And today, for the fourth time, I ask the prime minister to give an answer as to why he will not receive a delegation from the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5303	National MP, the question was addressed to the chairman and it said: when will the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija be on the agenda? I can only give an answer regarding the procedure and the Rules of Procedure. So when? Then when the proposer submits an emergency procedure proposal, when a political agreement is made that there is a necessary majority of votes. You can only be dissatisfied with the way in which you processally put the dots on the agenda. For today's session, no emergency proposal has arrived in the Assembly, and there have been no political arrangements on whether or not to form any majority that will put an end to the matter, all of them are in the process today, it's the only thing I can answer you for. As a result of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic reported, so MP Zoran Nikolic, MP Milorad Buha, MP Srdjan Spasojevic, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5304	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think it's clear to Mrs Comic herself whether we can discuss a budget rebalance proposal without a report from the Finance Committee or not. Mrs. Komic, believe me, I have an honest intention to help you, we can't. The Rules of Procedure are very clear and do not allow double interpretations at all. Article 151 reads: "The draft budget is discussed by committees of the National Assembly and their reports, with reasoned proposals, to the Committee on Finance. The Financial Committee shall consider the draft budget and reports of individual committees and shall report it to the National Assembly. "What's not clear here? Do we have a report from the Finance Committee? We don't. Can we start a budget rebalance search? We can't. Mrs. Komic, my friendly advice: interrupt the session of the National Assembly, schedule a session of the Finance Committee, wait for the report of the Finance Committee to arrive, and only after that can you begin the debate on budget rebalancing. On the contrary, it is a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5305	The debate is open, the search has begun, in accordance with Articles 151 and 139. The board meetings will be scheduled, if they haven't already. If the chairman or chairman of the board, or members of the board, did not do so dissatisfied with the fact that the president or chairman of the committee did not cancel, then it is quite certain that this will be done on the proposal of the National Assembly President, because there is no dispute over the fact that committees should work. The misunderstanding is that there is no damage to members 151 and 139. The debate in principle can go on and during the debate, I hope, after the successful work of the Assembly committees, we will get reports from committees that have discussed the draft budget rebalances. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5306	Dear People's MPs, since you, Mrs. Comic, like to talk to the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5307	People's MP, I warn you, we must all respect the members of the Rules of Procedure that define the way we address each other. None of the presidents are polluting. The chairman has a duty to explain when the MP calls to receive his word on the basis of article 100 and when he gets his word. Any situation in which any chairman would not give explanations would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. At no time am I with any MP, nor will I ever lead the controversy. I ask you to keep an eye on how we address one another, respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5308	Can I go on? If I see your answer as controversy, then you can't convince me whether you're breaking up with me or not. So, for me, it's not relevant to your opinion. Perhaps your answer, the one we've just heard, and all the answers we've heard these days, you don't see it as controversy, but you can't convince me that it's not controversy, because I feel like you're constantly plowing with the MPs. When you chair this assembly, we have a constant conflict situation, which is what you are causing with your polemics. So that's my attitude and you can't change it. Let us leave it to the viewers and citizens who are watching this congregation to judge whether you are adequately leading this congregation, whether or not you are confronting the MPs. When I started my presentation, and when I said that you liked to hatch, you said here... We DSS MPs have come out here and have again updated the Eulex issue because of everything that is going on with Eulex, as well as the statement by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, as well as senior US officials, because we see that slowly this state is preparing the public to maybe use EULEX in Kosovo and Metohija. The question here is why you did not put the Kosovo resolution on the agenda. You replied to do so if there was a request for an emergency procedure. You deceive the public, ignore the fact that 108 MPs filed a request in June to put the agenda on the agenda of this assembly - a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, following an urgent procedure. You didn't do it until today. It's not just your responsibility, but I don't know why you accept that kind of responsibility to defend something that's indefensible. I'll tell you why it's happening. It is no coincidence that the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija cannot meet because the ruling majority does not come to that committee whenever it is scheduled, with all its minorities. That's because you don't have a majority on the issue, because you didn't agree with each other, because you have diametrically opposite attitudes when it comes to the situation of Eulex in Kosovo and the very problem of Kosovo and Metohija. You don't have a majority on many boards, and that's why they don't meet. You today have shown that you do not have a majority; when today's adoption of the agenda, 124 MPs voted for the agenda on which the budget law is, therefore, not more than 126, which was necessary and what is normal when someone has a majority. Apparently, LSV MPs didn't vote. As far as I know, there have been threats that Mr. Canak can bring this government down and respond by DS that the chances of this government being shot down only when a meteor hits planet Earth. Of course, he, as far as I can see, has shown today that you don't have most of them here anymore. You don't have a lot of questions, and that's why you don't put that point on the agenda. I remind you once again of the fact, and don't ignore it and don't deceive the public, that 108 MPs of this assembly have given in the assembly procedure a declaration about Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5309	Mr. Milorad Buha. He's giving up. ) Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, was injured by Article 104. Rules of Procedure. In fact, I call on this member of the Rules of Procedure and I would like to point out, Madam Minister, that it is really unacceptable that we continue this session on this agenda point, that we begin it, for a simple reason, because the previous issue has not been resolved, and the previous question in this Rules of Procedure is that we should sit down and bring the report to the committee responsible, this time the Financial Committee. I think the chairman should interrupt this meeting and the committee meet, bring in the report and keep working normally. Of course, it's been tense all day in this room. It is clear to me that the chairman has made one mistake and the session has been interrupted, and the error is precisely because the ruling majority's MPs made an extraordinary noise at the time of the vote. At one point, it was embarrassing for me because the president of parliament three times urged the ruling majority to concentrate. It's unacceptable, and it's completely illogical to continue working after such an atmosphere after five minutes. It was perfectly normal that if one half hour break, an hour, we wouldn't have these problems, the board would have met, the report would have been in front of us, and I'm sure we'd have started working normally about half an hour ago. So Serbian citizens should know that the opposition is very constructive and that the problem is in the ruling majority. We saw that there was total chaos and that it was not even known whether the agenda had been voted. So, as an opposition MP, I urge you to concentrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-23-0.u5311	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that the session of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly is scheduled for Friday, October 24, 2008 at 9.30 p.m. After you've given up, and we have an agreement to continue our work tomorrow at 10, on Saturday and Monday we won't work, so you can plan all your activities. By the way, the break was because we wanted to make a deal on further work and I think we agreed. Thank you for your cooperation. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
