ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2886	Of course, I refer to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think this Rules of Procedure is still in force and is in effect. I warn you and ask you to explain to the public in Serbia several facts that are important for the work of the National Assembly. This morning I opened a site of the National Assembly and I see there is a display, a special column – the political parties. I see there's talk in public that in the National Assembly there are also representatives of some political party that doesn't exist. Come on, she didn't participate in the election, but there's no such thing as a political party register. Well, then I see that there's a group of MPs... It's completely against the Rules of Procedure. I have come to the conclusion that, ma'am, you, who are chairing the National Assembly, have committed serious injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but we will probably soon, if you put that item on the agenda. But I think the public in Serbia should know. The National Assembly Hall can only be attended by MPs, government representatives and citizens only if they are personally invited by the president of the National Assembly. But when the president of the National Assembly invites citizens to attend the National Assembly session, then they go upstairs to the balcony and observe from there. You see, in the House of the National Assembly, and when the sittings are held, when representatives of the diplomatic crust are called, they go to the balcony. I can understand that someone doesn't pay a TV subscription so they can't watch TV, so they have to come and be there and see what's going on in the National Assembly. But, take care, there's quite a collection of material about whether the work of the National Assembly is legitimate and legal. Of course, the question of who is here in the National Assembly is not only a political issue, but the question that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to think about – whether they voted for this. Come on, you somehow formed a government, overcoming election results, but now, trying to put stones in an SRS shoe, make sure you didn't put one heavy stone... (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. )......................................................................................................... as noose around Boris Tadic's neck. Please answer me, what's going on with the National Assembly website. Why is he inaccurate, wrong, illegal and perhaps not in the role of fraud of citizens of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2887	Mr Krasic, a member of our 23rd Rules of Procedure, says: "In the National Assembly, MP groups are educated, according to the rule of law, no later than seven days after the election day of the National Assembly President. The parliamentary group consists of the MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. A parliamentary group of at least five members can also be educated by association by MPs of political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have fewer than five MPs. The parliamentary group shall be established by submitting to the president of the National Assembly a list of members signed by each member of the parliamentary group. The list specifically lists the president of the parliamentary group and his deputy. The MP can only be a member of one parliamentary group." You've had a chance to see a site that's only in accordance with this Article 23. Here, you have the word again, probably according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2888	I'm using my right to the Rules of Procedure and to answer you and to try, if I may, to help you understand that a little bit better. There are several displays on the National Assembly site. One of the shows is "Embassy Group." The second feature is "political parties in the National Assembly." The second display, where political parties are, does not contain something that is represented here as a political party. So you absolutely didn't understand me. But since you have now tried to interpret something in article 23. Rules of Procedure, then you have to understand one thing - the parliamentary group consists of persons who are from the same electoral list and persons who are members of the same political party. Here, the terms 'political party', 'political organisation' and 'citizen group' are used only to make a clear difference with the applicant, i.e. the applicant of the electoral list. Why is it said that more than five of them can make? Because if some lists with a number of MPs less than five pass, they are given the right to have a parliamentary group as a mix of multi-proposers. But this situation in the National Assembly is not the one. This situation in the National Assembly is the one that was with Banet Ivkovic. You know very well what the situation is. This situation is the one here, in the National Assembly, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed, condemned by all political parties and all those present in the National Assembly. And the situation is that someone cannot enter the National Assembly through one electoral list, and that after some time, because of the independence of the MPs, it forms another list, another parliamentary group or another political party. There was some "dica" - method one, and now we have a method two. As far as morale goes, this isn't the first time in history that anything like this has happened. And at the end of the 19th century, there was a Pera Todorovic, and he was afraid when Timočka was a rebellion and then he worked 20 years against Nikola Pasic. I believe the consul of Nicaragua knows that very well. So, ma'am, you're in a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and in a serious violation of everything that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2889	You have received a proposal for a decision to elect a Deputy Protector of Citizens since 19 October 2007, with an updated Proposal for a Decision since 13 December 2007, submitted by the Citizens' Protector. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time for debates per parliamentary group is the following: "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 16 minutes and 36 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; The group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups that, unless they have already done so, they immediately apply for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision to elect Deputy Protectors of the Citizens. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2890	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you did at today's session, Article 23. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We, SRS MPs, understand your intention that what has been happening with the SRS for 15 and more days is really happening, with all the forces, with all the resources and levers of power (police, media - printed and electronic, politics, money, etc.). You are doing what is happening on the political scene of Serbia, but I do not understand why you are allowing yourself to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You quoted the provisions of Article 23, where you stated that in Article 3, it is true that it says, "the ambassador group is made up of the MPs of a political party" (not to read any further) – well, I guess the political parties as submissions of the electoral list that participated in the previous elections, which was May 11th. Here we have a political party in the establishment, whose founding assembly is, we heard from the media, scheduled for October 21st. How can the political party now have MPs in the Serbian Parliament? It's absolutely illusory, unconstitutional and against the law. The other thing is when elections are called and the political party, when it is established, goes to the polls and gets a number of votes. Personally, it is now such a situation, with the support of the regime in power, specifically DS, euphoria, so people are mistaken. I was also, I admit, but with this information and this information when citizens get to know what is really happening, I think and believe that this future political party will not get many votes and voter confidence in the Republic of Serbia. Not to appeal to you, not to ask you, but it is your duty, as a People's MP, to the President (or president, if you prefer me to call you that), it is your duty to safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly, respecting the legal order of this country. If we don't do it in the National Assembly, if you don't, how can we expect ordinary citizens to respect the legal order, the constitution, the laws, not commit crime? How can we condemn someone who stole bread to feed the family, a pack of cigarettes, when we are stealing here from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, through parliamentary terms, from large financial investments -- into a newly formed parliamentary group, which did this, of course, against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2891	Mr. Krasic has a word. Meanwhile, I have an oral statement, and soon a written statement will arrive that it does not figure on the Serbian Parliament site, as Mr Krasic said, the term "political party forward Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2892	Mrs. Djukic, I am from the pay phone right now and claimed that there is no political party "Forward Serbia". That's what I was saying, and you didn't believe me. Of course, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure and, not to get the impression, but I'm absolutely sure you've misapplyed Article 94. Rules of Procedure. It is a total time for debates for five hours, but it is divided by a proportion of MPs, as many as there are in a group of MPs. If these citizens of yours, who you invited to be here, wanted in some way to respect, to allow them to take part in a session of the National Assembly, then you should have taken that time from the Democratic Party. Yeah, you had to subtract from DS. I just explained to you on the Pera Todorovic case. He was supposed to be a regime radical. Now there are citizens who are only here because they don't pay TV subscription. They have no place to monitor the transmission of the National Assembly sessions and then Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic invited them to be present here. I'm sure she'd never invite Banet Ivkovic back then, but she doesn't mind calling her countryman here, with these brothers who somehow went out... You see, something was born in the National Assembly building. It's the result of political perversion. In this love appears "progress" and "progressive" group here. Who are they representing, Mrs. Djukic? Please provide 78 seats for the SRS because the voters in the Republic of Serbia have said that is how much we belong. Please give us back that time for an hour and a half and something, and you can take this for your pets from the SPS (you won't be able to from the G17, they won't give), you can free from the DS, they don't say anything anyway, they just pull where they get. Of course, it takes a masquerade in the National Assembly, so you don't know what's going on with Kim, what's going on with Corridor, what's going on with the government, who's in charge, who's government, what NATO thinks. So it takes fun. You're the one who made the party possible. In the end, let me correct you. A moment ago, when I called from the scene, I called Mrs. Komic because I know you wouldn't be so kind to give me your word. In the future, Mrs. Comic, don't be angry if I abuse you to somehow get to this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2893	Members of the Parliament whose mandate is still in office, as you know, were not present, and we spoke about the procedure for the possible withdrawal of the term of office on several occasions in the previous working day. I would like to inform you, in accordance with Article 37(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the SRS parliamentary group in the debate on item 2 of the agenda, which is current at the Fifth Extraordinary Session, will be represented by MP Zoran Krasic, following a proposal for a decision to elect Deputy Citizens' Protectors. Does the promoter, Mr. Sasa Jankovic, protect the citizens, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2894	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, respected members and members of the Presidency, honourable MPs, I do not necessarily want to take away a moment of your precious time, but I believe that the importance of your today's decision to elect Deputy Citizens' Protectors, given the fact that for the first time the National Assembly is choosing an Ombudsman deputy, given the fact that the Constitution provides for the greatest criteria for this personal solution, so an absolute majority of all MPs, not just a simple majority, and the importance this choice requires for the citizens of Serbia to address you in words, not just the paper that is before you. In 2005 and 2006, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Protector of Citizens established an ombudsman institution in order to do in a new institutional way what you do, what is called the protection of citizens, by controlling all state authorities and all those who in any way personify power. This was the first time in the history of the Republic of Serbia instituting an ombudsman institution, in line with the solutions made by all the countries that did so before us, the institution of the parliamentary Ombudsman, the general, the single Ombudsman. However, Simeon is obliged to provide special protection to particularly vulnerable groups of citizens, and therefore the law specialises in four deputy citizens' protectors. It is prescribed that the Citizens' Protector shall provide specialisation for the protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty; for gender equality; for the rights of the child; for the rights of members of national minorities and for the rights of persons with disabilities. You notice that I have listed, as the law has done, five areas, and the law provides for only four ombudsman deputies. That's something we'll hopefully succeed in the next period to change. As Deputy Citizens' Protectors, I proposed: Tamara Luksic-Orlandic, a graduate politician, who is the founder and activist of the most important organisations in the field of child rights protection and promotion, but also has an enviable experience in the state administration as former adviser to the Minister of Human and Minority Rights, as assistant minister of justice and assistant minister of culture. I also proposed Milos Jankovic, a graduate lawyer, who, among other things, left a very good trail behind as director of the Office for the Implementation of Office Sanctions at the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. Of course he will deal with issues of protection of persons deprived of liberty. I also proposed to the doctor legal sciences Zorica Mrsevic, respected in domestic and international circles because of the enormous knowledge, experience and results she achieved in the area of gender equality and also knowledge of the problem of people with disabilities. In the end, I also proposed a doctor of political sciences Goran Bašić, in the country and region of a well-known knowledge of theory and practice of interethnic relations, with experience, too, both in the NGO and in the government sector. I want to point out that I proposed them almost a year ago, and I immediately met the public with that proposal. I don't think it's a minor fact that in these years, not a single professional, scientific, nor a broader aspect of the public has challenged their qualifications for this significant place, not for professional reasons, not for human reasons. On the contrary. Dear People's MPs, the institution of the Protector of Citizens, meanwhile, lived not only in legal but also in social practice. Immediately after obtaining the minimum working conditions, results have also come, which seem to me to have shown that the Republic of Serbia has the democratic capacity needed to make such a subtle institution, a delicate institution manages to improve the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is undeniable that they demand, and have this right, much more. I am convinced that with the final selection of deputies, those I propose to you, only because of their professional and human qualities, Serbian citizens will exercise their right to a faster, more efficient, wider and more detailed protection of their rights against the Ombudsman. So I suggest you choose them, hoping that it will be done not only as the Constitution requires, by the absolute majority, but unanimously, which is their and my sincere desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2895	Thank you. Allow me to inform you that the LDP parliamentary group has authorized Mr. Slobodan Maraš to represent her at this point. Do the presidents, or representatives of political groups, want a word? Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2896	Of course, I express my views on behalf of the SRS both as parliamentary groups and as political parties. This paper was supposed to come to this pay phone for a year. In the meantime, everything and everything happened, it can be said that even the Citizens' Protector was blocked by those he had to control. The protection of citizens is not only formally authorized to control the National Assembly, the Government, the Constitutional Court, courts and prosecutors, but, if it controls the state administration, it is not something independent, outside the government, because the government is covering all of it. At first, I would say that the Guardian did not convince us that since he wrote the proposal to this day there has been no change. I think that's the first question he needs to answer clearly. The second question to be answered is – what conditions should the Deputy Protector of the Citizens meet? Is it enough to write in one article, as point one - 'high professional cook'? It's not enough. It's not enough because Deputy Protector of the Citizens is acting before the court. If the Guardian of Citizens is authorized to press charges before the court, then let us change the law. If you say it isn't, let's change the law. You say here, in a regulation that regulates the procedure, that the "Citizen's Protector initiates proceedings on the citizens' complaint or on his own initiative." Can he represent anyone? No one. The citizen's protector should be a graduate lawyer, and the Deputy Protector of the Citizens can also be a politician. It is technically a condition that is fulfilled, which is essentially not a condition. How does a graduate politician know if someone's right is violated if the exercise of rights is regulated by some procedural law? How? We have a procedural law that regulates the procedure in which a citizen exercises some right. We have a material regulation that defines the scope of rights. How can a politician question whether the rights of citizens have been violated? That's absolutely impossible. The protection of citizens, in essence, is a state body, but, from the point of view of the decisions it makes and the importance of its decisions, it is a very important para-state body, in that sense. In an organisational sense, as a constitutional category, it is a state body, but it is concerned with protecting citizens' rights. Furthermore, the Citizens' Protector and Deputy Protector are forbidden to make political statements. Here, just now this civil defender here said at least seven political statements -- results, democratic rebirth, democratic society... Who authorized him to say that? The law explicitly states that it must not make political statements, political qualifications. Probably in the future, if we have such a session of the National Assembly, we will have to establish a constitutional category and protectors of the National Assembly. We need a protector to protect the National Assembly, to protect the election will of the citizens. The law states that the Protector and his deputies should be high-level and high-moral persons. But it's written by the system of presummation of accountability. It is thought that everyone is competent until they prove incompetence with some belief of the doctor. It is thought that everyone is moral and honest unless something contrary is proved. And now whether the condition of morality, honesty, security and expertise is met should be decided by citizens who have shown immorality in action. There are 20 absolutely proven immoral, unconscious. Anything worse can be said about them. They're sitting right here. And they need to appreciate the morality, expertise, similarity of professors, doctors, lawyers, etc. A completely schizophrenic situation – proven immoralists judge whether someone is moral. Then how can a decision be legal? How can the decision of the National Assembly be normal? You know, then we're not surprised what time can happen that these people you've proposed (I'm not saying that, I'm speaking purely hypothetically), it's possible that they're not who you represented them here. Maybe they tricked you. They can't search it here because they're passing. You know why they're passing? Because there are proven immoralityists who will give even a quorum or something to applaud, they will allow this to pass. They'll come out here to swear they're against it. And they're supposed to be some opposition, and the opposition is always against what the government is proposing. Even so, you're the Protector of the Citizens, so you're not the Government, they might look through your fingers, but don't believe it. Don't believe it, aman. Immoral statues. In front of the public of the Republic of Serbia, we know that they will examine whether the conditions laid down in Article 10 of your law are met with regard to your deputies, people who do not meet the conditions to raise their hands, to be present here. Now let me pay a little attention to these candidates of yours. I believe that the Deputy Protector of the Citizens must, in terms of professional training, base my discussion primarily on this first condition, that is, Article 6 – the condition that he has a high professional standing. I think Deputy Protector of the Citizens must be the least graduated lawyer. He can be a magistrate, he can be a doctor, he can be a professor of law school if he meets these other conditions. But a graduate politician, a politician doctor -- I don't think he meets the conditions, because that thought wasn't when the Law on the Protector of Citizens was passed why the Citizens' Protector must be a graduate lawyer. Let me explain to you what the bigger problem is. If there are jobs to be done there in people's services and the condition is that they are graduate lawyers, it is impossible that his quality of business is priced, as a boss, and Deputy Protector of the Citizens will probably run a sector, because you have five areas, and yet you have four (of course, disabled people are again the non-covered party, probably that area will be covered in another way, but that's another question). I think they have to be graduate lawyers because it's impossible for a politician to be the boss and control a graduate lawyer and train him to do a job when he starts inside the Citizens' Protector to see if there's been a violation of the rights of a citizen. Why? In practice, the boss is asking for something impossible from a lawyer. And why is he looking? Because he doesn't know the job. Very simple and simple. Where the legal-economic service is connected, so the head of the economists, the lawyers grab their heads. Why? Because he's giving them lectures about how they misrepresented in court, how they miswritten a decision or something. That's what's gonna happen. It's gonna have to happen. That's the condition. The second condition is this in terms of years of employment – everyone meets that condition. To possess high moral and professional qualities – it is so set that it is at the level of presummation. If anyone thinks one of these proposed candidates is such that he doesn't meet the condition, he should come out here, say, wave something. We have nothing to wave and we don't want to wave because there's something in the biography. People have also written in their biographies something that does not allow them to function as Deputy Protectors of Citizens, but I will discuss it specifically. If they had observed experience in protecting the rights of citizens – there you could put Natasa Kandic right away. She has the most noticeable experience in protecting citizens' rights. Please don't laugh. She finally gathered her courage and went to Simeon Spasic (there are many pictures of the victims and the missing) and said, "I will publish the book about it." She completed her noble mission, but that's why we have Tomislav Nikolic, who is supported by the US and English ambassadors. So they've changed their roles. Boris Tadic estimated that now Tom needs to do this dirty work, and Natasa does a little washing her... Although Natasha and Tom are in conflict with the court. We shall see which of them will go to prison. But that's a different story. Well, you see, that's what morals should be about. Do you realize what a schizophrenic situation this is? So, if we go in order, you are the Deputy Protector of the Citizens who would be in charge of the area of the rights of the deprived persons, you proposed Milos R. Jankovic. According to what you wrote, he works at the Public Communal Company "Belgrade Road," probably on legal business. What does the JPP "Belgrade Road" have to do with anything? It's not prison. You're the one who proposed him to the area of the right of persons deprived of liberty. I don't know how it got stolen. In his biography you wrote that he was an extremely significant man because he even changed his terminology. Imagine what you wrote: and he contributed not to be called those faces devoid of freedom but to the faces of limited freedom. He's come a long way. You would now have to prove to me that the JKP "Belgrade Road" is a prison sentence facility because it just seems amazing to me that sheep are best guarded by wolves. In his career, this man was the director of the Department of Criminal Sanctions at the Ministry of Justice. So the warden of the prison will best protect the rights of the prisoners? So don't, please. I see he was even a private at some point. Those who were private, couldn't be in a state function where human rights were involved, just to be clear. Why? Well, there's a clear need for him to enter a conflict of interest. Second candidate, here you see... You wrote it, Mr. Jankovic, I don't read anything by heart. As far as the other candidate is concerned, he's a politician. It's Dr. Goran Basic. You have appointed him a member of the national minorities' rights. But he's a politician, he couldn't help you much in this area. The third candidate is Zorica Mrsevic. She's for gender equality. That's how you defined it. I interpreted it well. You see, there's an installed conflict with her now, on the other side of her biography. You wrote that by 2010, she would be running a five-year project of the Institute of Social Sciences, and this Law on the Protector of Citizens... Why are you nodding your head? Doesn't it say here? It says, don't nod. So she's in an open conflict of interest. If we choose her... She's already doing some other business at the start, she's the project manager. The project manager cannot change from 2006 to 2010, to half of the project to change. And another thing, I think she's from some NGO sector. Take a look. I read these biographies well, but I get the impression that you didn't read them well. The fourth candidate is Tamara Luksic-Orlandic. She's an area of child rights. So, you've proposed four candidates, really in accordance with the law, for areas prescribed by the law that a Deputy Protector should be hired and I don't dispute that. I'm slowing down my expertise with these two candidates. I think there's a big problem with this lady. It's essentially coming from the NGO sector and I think it's a big problem. What's the big deal? Because we all know about how this NGO came into existence. The non-governmental sector is also Natasa Kandić, and Vojin Dimitrijevic, the non-governmental sector is also your'Women in Black' (although there are men in black), the non-governmental sector was also this Srdjan Milivojevic (it went to the payroll at the US Embassy as resistance), and this Konstantinović (here, escapes), Sonja Biserko, and that I do not order any further. What would happen to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if you Srdjan Milivojevic, don't give God, by any chance, to propose to a deputy state official where the issue of human rights is considered. You, when you suggest it, talk more about yourself than you do about them. In Serbia, we can rightly object when it comes to the NGO sector. There's "Sequedin school," there's a lot of stuff. At the Faculty of Political Sciences, Gilasova wrote on page 20 a master's work, wrote her a post and master's degree in Podunavec. Anything can be done at the Faculty of Political Sciences. Everything can end there. G17 is full of experts and experts. It is Serbia's intellectual base in the past and in the future, and when it comes to choosing the chairman of the board of directors, it does not meet the conditions. It's lies and fraud. I think, Mr. Jankovic, that you should withdraw this proposal, to consider it a little bit. I know that your job is pushing you, that your job requires you to sort these things out, to transfer some of the work to others, you can't do all that, I understand all that. But I think these proposals are old, you said it was a year ago. I think there are also professional people in this country, who meet all the legal requirements that you can suggest. Avoid this NGO sector because they're carrying a mortgage. I'm really sorry now. I don't know these candidates, I just know what you wrote and I know how to interpret what you wrote. I can't criticise that part, point three and point four of this article, which regulates it, because it's an imaginary area for all of us, but I think you should withdraw this proposal, make a new one, and make sure that when that new proposal comes, we're in a much better climate to discuss. The issue of citizens in the Assembly will be resolved, the issue of MPs will be resolved. I'll tell you what day he's coming, and he's got to deal with it because it's all on his head. What I would recommend to you more – stay away from political statements and avoid political gatherings, do not go to the symposiums of NGOs, because in the last few months your name and your function have been misused for political purposes. The public defender would probably have to contact the public just a few times a year with a report on the state of human rights in Serbia. You better file that report than Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Vojin Dimitrijevic or the one run by Kandićka, the lawyer (how was it? The one lost in time and space. You, with your job, better write. But take care, avoid these NGOs, these symposiums, these counsellings, they abuse you for purely political purposes. And don't advertise about individual objects. Don't make any noise about these cases. Why? Because I can fool you. To fool you into jumping, to think that something was in danger, and then to turn out another thing later, and then this side in the argument of its yellow attitudes will call upon you and you will sweat. So you better have problems and conflict with the law in application than with the National Assembly. Drag these proposals nicely, take them out in accordance with the law and the reasoning, of course, write them right. Because I'm absolutely sure these two candidates don't meet the conditions. It doesn't suck that the Guardian of Citizens must be a graduate lawyer. How is it possible for those who replace him to be something else now? There's no connection between law school and the university of political science, so be sure. It exists in the area of sociology, philosophy, etc., but from the point of view of human rights, the process of protecting human rights, the assessment of whether the procedure has been properly implemented – excuse me, please. In addition, look at the judgments and views of the European Court of Human Rights, so it will be much clearer to you what I said. Of course, we can't support this, but that's why we're proposing to the MP to withdraw the proposal and sort it out with our objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2897	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2898	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jankovic, the LDP will support the citizens' protection proposal for his deputies for several reasons. First, we, when voting on Mr Jankovic himself, supported the proposal, not because of Mr Jankovic himself, but mainly because of the institution of the Protector of Citizens. That's how we're going to support this proposal for four deputies in this case. We don't need to make a statement about the deputies themselves, we think that the proposals, based on these biographies and on what we know about them, are in place. What bothers us is that we've been waiting a year to get to something like this. What bothers us is that when we chose Mr. Jankovic, which Mr. Jankovic will be able to confirm, with all our support, he was not allowed to say a word here in this assembly room. It also bothers us that so far the government, or the ruling majority, had towards the Citizens' Protector, is located in the House of the National Assembly, which has not provided the space in which it can be worked in the best possible way. This matter itself is very important to all citizens of this country, and I think that on several occasions Mr. Jankovic himself has shown the importance of this institution. Unfortunately, on Friday, we were prevented from pleading at any other point. This point was the selection of members of the National Bank Governor's Council. I must say, as the debate at that point was concluded in a hasty fashion, we have not been able to say that we will not support this proposal. We won't support him for several important reasons, because, unlike this, it's purely evidence of a party state. The way members of the Board of Governors have been elected makes that clear. All those on the Finance Committee could see how members were elected. In addition, the law has been broken, since two people have been elected for five years, but that is a more procedural question, which is also important, but the very bottom line is that we don't get to say some important things. One of these important things is, let's say, that the IMF's visit made it clear that the country's budgetary and fiscal policies are completely catastrophic. We don't have a chance to talk about it at all. We have no chance to talk about not getting into a situation with the IMF that would be in Serbia's interest. We also can't get a chance to talk about why Serbia had a knockout in Brussels a few weeks ago, when what we were promised was not done, right from this assembly pay phone, that it would be done. We also can't get a chance to talk about everything that's been said about this pay phone, when it comes to an oil-gas deal by those who defended it, it wasn't true, what it shows all these days and what citizens are able to see. The LDP will not support the proposal to elect the Board of Governors, but we will support Mr Jankovic's proposal, the public's protector, that these four persons be his deputies. There's one more thing I wanted to point out. The government's attitude towards the citizen's protector is best demonstrated by the refusal of some amendments Mr. Jankovic submitted to the data protection law, which comes in a few days on the agenda. He has submitted several amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act. Some have passed, some have been rejected. We believe that the key amendment has been rejected, to Article 45, and that best says what the government's relationship is. So, it won't be allowed for the public information trustee to have insight into the BIA documents. We think it's very important that the amendment Mr. Jankovic filed is in place. However, the government rejected him. We hope that in the future the government and the ruling majority will show much more concern for such an institution and will enable, through finding space, through providing all resources, that the Citizens' Protector is doing his job in the interests of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2899	Thank you. Mr. Balint Pastor. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2900	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jankovic, the SVM and the Minority Group will, of course, support the citizens' protection proposal. We think it is very important for the citizens of Serbia that the Law on the Protector of Citizens has been passed, it is good that a little more than a year ago the first Protector of citizens in Serbia has been elected, and it is also important that all conditions are obtained so that the Citizens' Protector can carry out those tasks that the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia put in charge. When we talk about these conditions, we must certainly say that one of the preconditions for performing these functions is the choice of his deputies, and on the other hand, the Republic of Serbia must provide all the material and technical conditions for the Citizens' Protector to perform his function. Because, I must say, the Protector of Citizens is not only a legal category in Serbia, but has been a constitutional category since 2006. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia has won the citizens' protection institution among the last in Europe. This, unfortunately, speaks a lot about the Republic of Serbia and the priorities of previous governments and previous parliaments, but it is very good that the Citizens' Protector has already been elected and I hope that his deputies will be elected in a few days. I also expect that the government and the state of Serbia will do everything to remove all obstacles as soon as possible and provide all material and technical conditions so that the Ombudsman, the Citizens' Protector, can fulfil his legal and constitutional obligations. We must also say that the choice of the Citizens' Protector and his deputies is not a condition for Serbia's EU accession. It is not the point that we have to do this job in order to get close to the European Union, but rather the choice of the Citizens' Protectors and the choice of its deputies is to create conditions for the work of this important institution in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens. That's why parliament has to do this job very urgently. I would also like to remind you that this proposal by Mr Jankovic stands here, in the Assembly, since October of last year and it is very bad that we are now approaching the election of Deputy Ombudsmans, the election of Deputy Protectors of the Republic of Serbia. As far as his deputies are concerned, I'd like to point out the following. It's a good thing last year, when the Law on the Protector of Citizens was adopted, an amendment to the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians was adopted. We then suggested to be unequivocally immediately in Article 1. The law stressed that the Citizens' Protector is concerned about the protection of specific rights of members of national communities, national minorities, and it is good that he will have a deputy specialising in protecting the rights of members of national minorities. The rights of national minorities in Serbia are often discussed. We can meet two ways of seeing each other. One way of seeing it is that members of national minorities enjoy all the collective and individual rights that can be imagined in Europe. That, unfortunately, is not true. There is much more to be done on the plan to improve the position of members of national minorities, but it is also not the right way to see which members of national minorities do not enjoy almost any rights. Of course, members of national minorities enjoy certain rights, of course there have been some shifts in recent years, but there should be no flat-rate evaluations in any direction, but it should work to improve the institutional and legal framework and after the election of the Citizens' Protector who will be specialised in protecting the rights of members of national minorities. From this point on, I would like to appeal to all the factors in the Republic of Serbia, primarily the Government, that as soon as possible the law on the way of choice, jurisdiction and funding of national minority councils, because the law is largely missing so that members of national minorities can enjoy the individual and, above all, the collective rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution. To conclude, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities will support Mr Jankovic's proposals and we appeal to the government and the state of Serbia to remove as quickly and as urgently as possible those shortcomings that exist in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so that members of national minorities can use as much as possible those rights guaranteed by law and constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2901	Thank you. Does anyone else in the name of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Mr. Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2902	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, Mr Jankovic, the PUPS parliamentary group will support Mr Jankovic's proposals for several reasons. First of all, we think that the Civil Protection Institution should perform its full function in accordance with the law and the Constitution. We don't think it's done yet. I draw particular attention to the need to protect pensioners' rights. I'll mention two categories of pensioners. First, the problems that are present in connection with the exercise of the right to pension employees who have completed an internship in Slovenia. There's a lot of problems here, and we think the pensioner's tucategory should be protected. Second, we have one piece of the military pensioners who's retired... (President: Mr. Markovic, please allow the speaker to finish. )......................................................................................................... in the Republic of Montenegro. 65 of them don't have any rights. They don't have any income. They and their families live very hard. We also have a large number of pensioners who address other institutions and cannot exercise their acquired rights. In that sense, we think the Guardian of Citizens makes a lot of sense. This congregation and this authority should provide all conditions for it to operate in accordance with the law. That is why the PUPS parliamentary group will support Mr Jankovic's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2903	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2904	Of course, those are members of 225 and 226. I think it's a good thing you sent the Citizens' Protector as opposed to the other citizens present here and that the National Assembly is exactly the place to ask the Citizens' Protector questions that have direct ties to the motion for a decision. The reason for that is my predecessor's discussion. Don't get it wrong, he criticises the government of the Republic of Serbia and criticises the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who is in charge of social care and care for socially endangered categories. So I'm just distracting you a little bit, so you don't think they're torn up. They didn't tear themselves up. They have reserves. So, you'd have to go out a little more today, during this debate, Mr. Jankovic. Because we have this situation: if a citizen is in a working relationship, something doesn't suit him, his work relationship stops and then seven or eight months waits for his work book to come back. Labour inspection is powerless or in some combination, so that man can neither apply to work elsewhere, and the reason is that the company probably hasn't made contributions to pension, disability, health... You know what this is about. And then, when someone else is formally kept on record as being in a working relationship, Mladjan Dinkic comes out and says: we hired two million in the meantime. In this way, people are forced to work on black, to cope, simply, to ensure existence, to ensure survival. There's a lot of cases like that. Of course, you're acting on complaints from citizens, but you can do it on official duty. Here, I gave you an idea. Every day, newspapers are full of such texts. And for the record, elite firms, who boast that they are strong, rich, Thai, are helping some individuals, citizens, abuse and violate the rights of citizens, labour rights, and even so brutally not to return the work book to that person. So, I've tried a little bit of what the official said to direct you, so you don't realize that you now need to initiate a procedure against Krkobic. This power, you've seen for yourself how it works. They're standing next to the wall in line and waiting. Ollie Rehn, Olly Solana, or some referent, or this, or that – by choice. I expect you to do your job more seriously when you have, of course, some other deputies. And to resolve the question of who is all citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2905	Thank you. Mr. Colakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2906	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I understand that someone wants to speak to a debater who, as it has been said here, has previously spoken and that notes either disagree with part of the discussion or the assessments he has made and that it can serve as a reason to say something else besides that. I don't think something like that should be used. I want to say that PUPS wants to participate constructively in Parliament's work, to give its suggestions and suggestions. That's why she defined herself as taking part in the government. As a result, it has been identified as supporting positive reforms, including in this case. She is also prepared to point out that she criticises both her president and others if they are not doing well. We think that, in this case, we should give full support to the Citizens' Protector to perform his legal and constitutional function. In that sense, the government also provides help to create these conditions. We will, in that sense, make a full contribution to other functions that this country needs to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2907	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2908	Of course, that's Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I really appreciate the constructiveness and benefits of PUPS. KK – constructively beneficial. They've fooled voters everywhere. Krkobic left, you complete the issue with him... (President: Mr Krasic, please treat yourself with respect when talking about the characteristics of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Krkobic. I'm sorry, please. I wasn't talking about his qualities. I was talking about his party's properties. (President: All right, then versus the party. ) I did not say that Mr. Krkobiæ is beneficial, but I said that these criticisms at the expense of the social policy run by the Government should end with their party president. I was talking about KK, the constructiveness and benefits of PUPS, not Krkobic. I know that you know a lot more than I know what that benefit is. We saw when it came to the city, we saw when it came to the Republic... Here, they are now criticizing, proposing, constructively proposing to the Citizens' Protector to pay attention to something they do. Mr. Krkobiæ is the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of this – for pensioners, for social issues, etc. And now the MP of that party comes out and says, "Protects citizens, check out what these of mine are doing, they seem to be doing something out of the law. What, then, as the opposition's representative, can I do but just go out and tell the public about it? Mr. Krkobic said, he came across a great understanding and warm reception with Mr. Tadic, that they have achieved the strategic goals of KK, that 70%, I don't know, pension with coordination, and 10% tomorrow – all I understand. Of course I understand that, but let these topics come... But, of course, let's get rid of these citizens who are doing something here. I am now under the impression that you, as the Guardian of Citizens, have brought citizens to act as ambassadors to be stronger. Well, you can't, Mr. Jankovic, be stronger. You're as strong as the Constitution and the law tell you to. This strength beyond the Constitution and the law is the problem of the lady who is chairing the parliament, that is the problem of the gentleman who should return from New York, because this gentleman is the stone around his neck. I've got rocks in my shoe, so it just stings me so little until I kick him out. But the stone that will sink and drag Tadic away are the citizens you brought with you. That's not good, Mr. Jankovic, get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2909	You have no right to a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2910	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Dear President, honourable MPs, I will no longer ask for a word on this subject, but I want to say that I think that Mr Krasic is the least needed to talk about pensioners and Dr Krkobic. What we promised in the campaign, we realize it. The government adopted a pension increase regulation, and that will be achieved. The government is preparing a draft law to amend and supplement the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act. And that promise will be realised, unlike the campaign that was led by a party with certain representatives of pensioners, who did not. I hope that everyone in this assembly will give full support to what we do and prepare for the next period and that the pensioners, who are over 400,000 who receive pensions below 9,000, and who are millions who receive pensions below 19,000, will live better in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2911	Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2912	Mrs. Djukic, I'm sure you understand that I'm glad my predecessor heard what I said, but he didn't understand me, it's obvious. It's not my fault for your position as KK, constructive and beneficial. If you're talking about pensioners' rights and they're threatened, please, here's Bosko Ristic, here's Milan, there's a few other MPs from that 2003 call when Gordana Matkovic here, screaming, explained that it was the best law. So you heard me. This is the cause of your problems and the problems of your pensioners, which you think you have the right to represent them, but you are with them in the coalition because of KK - constructiveness and benefits. And the end. You may not like it, but that's your problem. How am I going to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please excuse me, it's a little bit of my business, but a lot more of the SRS thing, whose member I am. Which you don't like, so I'm not here to make you like what I'm about to say. I'm just showing you and reminding you of something that's inconclusive. The Democratic Party, Gordana Matkovic, presented the law here. Later, the law was upgraded. He was so nicely "yellow-European" that the pensioners were the most endangered category. You've voted for the vice president of the government to handle it. Here you are with Mr. Krkobic, the esteemed Mr. Krkobibic, and agree with him how you will tighten your hand to Boris Tadic, how you will turn your ears to the Minister of Finance, how you will calm Mladjan Dinkic and the IMF who presses. One, he was a representative of the IMF and the World Bank a few days ago. Your Krkobic, as a soldier of the revolution, calmly against the wall and waits half an hour for this one to come to greet himself, so that RTS will just record it and show the citizens as -- it's settled. But it's KK. So, you're not constructive because I don't know what, but you're useful. You know why. You've changed your election will. That's what you'll do in front of your voters when the time comes, but don't, please, ask Mr. Jankovic to lead the order to the Deputy Prime Minister. He only acts when he gets a complaint. Here, I suggest that what my predecessor said we interpret as a complaint about Mr. Krkobic's work and take, please, into consideration. But there's a problem again. Krkobic is a member of the government and you cannot control him. Do you see how we're bewildered by construction? They're going with unrealistic suggestions. They want to fight Mr. Jankovic and Mr. Krkobibic, and he is not in charge of controlling Krkobibic. And, of course, Mr. Jankovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2913	Mr. Krasic, you've exceeded 15 seconds. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2914	Article 104. Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, I don't think it's fair to refer to something quite different from what we, as PUPS, wanted to say about the Citizens' Protector. It's not just that we've been bringing up these problems that exist and that you all know exactly what they're like. We've been talking to you and the others about it for years. There are many other problems here that are not solved by the government. It can solve them in a broader sense, but in this sense, for which the Protector of Citizens needs to address, when it comes to disrespecting certain rights that people have and which must be implemented by law, these are personal rights, because of various employers, etc., which are not ultimately resolved by law or practice. There are also a lot of problems among the spouses, who are damaged in one way or another, which can also not solve power, but before the judiciary can help the Citizens' Protector. So there's no benefit here, and I don't know anything else, but I just need to get out of all these problems, which, at first glance, can look tiny, but they're big. And all these other questions, concerning the status of pensioners etc., we are in the process, as the head of our parliamentary group has pointed out, we are working on it and will come all the way here, so we will see how who will plead on how the pensioners will live. We're asking that by New Year's Eve this law be presented to the Assembly and then we'll discuss it. All of you, and the opposition and position, have advocated for years to repair that condition. Here, now there will be an opportunity to fix it, and now these are some other issues that are related to the protection of citizens' rights, not to count them now, because I don't have time for that, otherwise I could give an elaborate on what these are all rights, beyond what Mr Krasic was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2915	Thank you, Mr. Perry. You didn't mention it. All right, here you go, Mr. Krassic. It may be that I didn't understand that there was something offensive about you in telling the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2916	Mrs. Djukic, haven't you heard? Everyone heard I was mentioned, but well, you can't follow every word. There are your assistants, so let them tell you what's going on. Of course I am using this right to inform, above all, the public, in which way the dignity of the National Assembly is questioned. Now, after this discussion, the people of this retirement party will realize that Mr. Jankovic is making a decision on retirement, that he is making decisions on pay, that he is keeping records of payments and that he is giving to the Postman Savings and Banks orders when a pensioner will receive his pension. Well, that's not true. Don't make me defend Mr. Jankovic now. As it is not necessary for Mr Jankovic to engage to calm what Krkobibic is doing. He can't, he's a member of the government, he's protected as hell. It's a restricted area, it can't possibly. But, please, if you are so constructive as to solve the pensioner's problem and say that they all supported you, especially the SRS, which has more reasons than you are to support such fundamental solutions, then let Mr. Krkobic, as Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, exercise his right under the Government Act and the Ministry Act and some within the framework of the state administration and within what the para-state authorities, such as the PIO Fund, order to resolve these issues. Don't dissuade this rally here now. It's like you're trying, and it can't. How are you trying? You're trying, so you can't, so someone else is obstructing, so come on, Mr. Jankovic, you're chasing a PIO fund, employers, etc. You have a labour inspection, you have a tax, you have this Dacic, you also have Tadic's, you have this police officer, Miki Rakic, this Tadic's advisor who commands, you also have this Vukadinović, so everyone who doesn't pay a contribution should go to prison. Here, the new Deputy Protector of the Citizens will be an expert in prisons. Solve the matter urgently and efficiently. I can't have pensioners waiting for a future. How to wait for the future? He's looking for his own, what he's accomplished. Who took it from him? Your coalition partner. Your coalition partner passed a law that disfigured pensioners. Another coalition partner of yours said the IMF and the World Bank insist that nothing is donated from the Republika Srpska budget, nothing is paid, no transfer of funds to the PIO funds. This is a condition for us to enter – where? - the Atlantic Ocean. And who here dissuade whom? Where you need to show your constructiveness...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2917	It's been three minutes. There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2918	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 161. The Rules of Procedure which regulates the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law, and I report to you in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Rules of Procedure. In 225, given the fact that I feel morally responsible, because I have one pensioner in my house, because of a million and six hundred thousand pensioners. These questions raised in accordance with these two members of the Rules of Procedure I ask the gentlemen of the "United Pension Party" Dr Krkobbic, who is the Deputy Prime Minister. In fact, I'll do the same. 225. The Rules of Procedure refer this question to you and, above all, to Mr. Krkobibić. If what the gentlemen of the "United Pensioners Party" say is true, if they expected that by entering this new Dossian government, which is commanded by Boris Tadic and the "yellow company" DS, they would be so easy to vote for the rights of pensioners, and if they are now distracted by it, let's say someone is obstructing them in the government, then as a parliamentary group they can use it to be an initiative and that, as a proposal for the law and according to a member of the Rules of Procedure that I have mentioned and Article 162. do not wait, as a colleague said there at the end of the year, January or I don't know when, but – if you have a law on amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, please, go ahead to the MPs. Do you think that when you entered the National Assembly, for the first time in Serbia, you raised the question of pensioners? Who fought for the rights of our oldest and poorest citizens for eight years? Only the Serbian Radical Party, because everyone else has changed in power. How was the period when these laws were passed (mildly said - monstrous) spoken of by Mr Krasic? Who was the only one who tried to protect the pensioners? We had to periodically from the assembly pay phone because we're getting those "free" reports from the Republic Bureau of Statistics, to compare, so we're making this clear comparative -- what can a pensioner with a minimum pension do, how much he can buy a kilo of bread, a liter of milk, provided he's not sick, and unfortunately, many of them are sick, because they have to pay for participations, medicines that have to pay for their poor and miserable pensions. If you're already talking about wanting to improve your position as soon as possible and those who are your colleagues and friends, then give it nicely according to the urgent procedure of the law, so let's see when it can be done quickly. Don't wait for the government to have mercy, to come to the government's agenda. Let's start it as a parliamentary group and then we'll see if that law is good enough for the pensioners, whom we, as the SRS, care about. But here, dear colleague, another problem arises. The problem is that Albert Jager of the IMF, while visiting Serbia, said that you cannot count on it next in 2009. (President: Time. ) He did not specifically mention the law, but since the new Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic herself admitted that the Republic of Serbia's budget is in a difficult current deficit, that Serbia, according to Jager, is spending 500 billion more than we have our incomes, then... (President: Bring the end, Miss Jovanovic. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done, Madam President... I ask the question how do you think you can implement the law if it's such a restrictive IMF policy towards us and why wait until the end of the year. But I wouldn't be surprised to see it go on forever, given Mr. Krkobic's cynical statement when he said, when he was asked about the arrest of Dr. Karadzic and General Mladic – well, I care about a million and six hundred thousand pensioners, it would still be a burden for me to take care of two more pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2919	I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda. There's a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't think I was answering the Rules of Procedure. I think Mr Krasic also plastically explained the policy of certain political parties in the ruling structure, however, the discussion of the gentleman from the "United Pensioners' Party" encouraged me. I must remind the citizens of Serbia, I must remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, not of the pre-election promises, because the pre-election promises were such that even Rockefeller couldn't keep them... (President: Excuse me, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure. ) This is Article 226. You'll promise, gentlemen, 17% increase in pensions. That is, you promised first that the pensions would be 70% of the salary at the most recent time. It's a couple of fake pensioners. You will promise 17% since August, not since August, but will be in September. Well, it's not September, it's October, and it's New Year's Eve, and after New Year's, it's New Year's Eve and new promises. You'll promise 15.5%, not say when. You'll promise a pension in full since July. Your party president is in charge of the government, his portfolio is exactly this. You'll promise pensions in full since June, then since July, nothing. Now you say next year. Gentlemen, discuss it with whoever's running the vault. The pensioners are hungry. I have pensioners in the house, and I know how much they've received, and I know how much they trusted those promises of yours, and I know how cheated they are and how betrayed they feel right now, just because of your empty stories in the election campaign. When I told them that they were empty stories, I said – gentlemen, in the pre-election promises of Mr. Krkobiæ and in Santa do not believe anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2921	He has the word Mr. Buha, in accordance with Article. Item 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as part of the members of the SRS parliamentary group reported. So, Milorad Buha, and let Mr. Vesenovic be prepared. MILORADBUHA: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as much as the Government and the current government care about the Citizens' Protector and the protection of citizens, best tells us that we are the last country in Europe to have received the Protector of Citizens. Then, when that child was born, it is expected that the State, or government, will provide all personal, personnel, technical and all other preconditions for that Protector of Citizens to be in the role of protecting citizens. First they waited a few months to move into a certain space. They got a certain space, normal, inadequate. After that comes the security of technical preconditions – they are not technically provided. Let's not talk any further about personal solutions, because that's exactly what it says about the character of this government. A letter requiring the Citizens' Protectors to elect four deputies to the assembly on October 19th last year. Here, almost a year. For a year, this congregation, or this state, is not worthy of putting on the agenda to fill that state body, a very significant state body, and to go into the normal work of this body. When we talk about protecting citizens, I will take this opportunity to warn the Protector of a category of citizens who are the most vulnerable. These are people from Republika Srpska who have been exiled and avoided persons who have, in the last 15 years, been the most tragicist of the political and social scene in Serbia and the Balkans. Since this is in the jurisdiction of the Protector of Citizens, I will ask and ask for on behalf of the Krajina those categories which otherwise belong to the law of the established category, which are convicted persons, children, disabled persons. When we talk about convicted persons, Serbs from Republika Srpska who are camped in Croatian prisons, we have several categories. The persons arrested during the 1991 to 1995 wartime events, which are still in prison today, we currently have, I think, five Serbs, so here is the opportunity for the Citizens' Protector to take an interest in these cases, to see on what basis, to review, above all, the rulings of the Croatian authorities that have discriminatoryly conducted the procedure and condemned Serbs for the smallest detail. It was enough to catch a Serb and put him in jail right now and it's been 17-18 years. The second category are faces with so-called. the war lists the Croats have. Every government organ has its own list, rips it out when they need it and arrests the unfavorable. We have hundreds of Serbs arrested for a war crime. It would be enough for one of the Croatian citizens to point a finger at a Serb who enters that war criminal record and he comes to certain lists, is in custody, arrests etc. The next category is persons who have been returning to Croatia since 1995, from the largest exodus of Serbs from the territory of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, who are going to visit their burned-out houses and destroyed properties, who want to be visited, renovated, etc., found there by the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia who are hearing them, calling for informative talks, organised political trials, in which many people suffer and end up in prison. There are many examples, you know that very well. Here is an excellent opportunity for the Citizens' Protector to protect these citizens, who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia (they have received citizenship, they have received a personal map, they are full citizens of the Republic of Serbia), which the state institution of the Republic of Serbia must protect. Because all that is organised by the Croatian state authorities are discriminatory court proceedings that have nothing to do with international law, and it is obvious that it is a revenge against Serbs. When we talk about pensions, we have to say that the Protector also has to deal with it. We received information from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that the procedures for those Serbs who left the Republic of Croatia, in the process launched by their state authorities, are currently being conducted in the cross-state bodies of Croatia and Serbia, but the procedures are also being conducted in the Republic of Serbia. Twenty-four thousand Serbs who have obtained pension rights cannot get that pension because Croatian authorities do not want to complete the pension process. I performed, me and Republika Srpska's government in persecution, an estimate that it was a total of hundreds of millions of euros. These people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have achieved this right, they should be given that pension, but they cannot get it. It's only one year. Since humans are mortal, after a while they die. These Serbs, the Krajina exiles, who have exercised that right, cannot get it because Croatian state authorities do not want to complete the procedure and give them the pension they deserve. It is a huge resource and, of course, it would come to the Republic of Serbia and fertilise itself in normal proceedings in the Republic of Serbia. Here's another task for the Guardian of Citizens. In addition, we have to say about the huge problems families have, especially families with disabilities. On several occasions, I spoke behind this speaker about problems that disabled people face in the process before the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. In what way? There's a few categories there. Those who acquired this right in the Republic of Croatia before 1991 received this right in the Republic of Croatia, and their pension was paid by the pension authority in the Republic of Serbia. When an agreement on social security between the two countries was adopted and ratified, these pensioners were to make pensions in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian pension authority issued a pension solution, but the pension is not coming. Here, it's been five years, in some cases, not all of them, but in some cases, dozens of such cases, that these people who achieved this right in 1991, can't materialize it now because the Croatian authority simply, in a procedural sense, refuses the party, refuses to meet it and assigns what it belongs to. We have people with disabilities who became really disabled during the 1991-1995 war conflicts. Procedures take place both in front of Croatian authorities and in front of Serbian authorities. Hundreds and thousands of cases like that, and people don't get any compensation no matter how disabled they really are. And so on. That is why I call on the Guardian of Citizens to take priority on all those Krajis who have such unresolved issues. These are categories of pensioners, people with disabilities, persons who are in prison in Croatia. Even those who come here now have been transferred to Mitrovica. Eight of them seem to me to support the punishment on the basis of political processes in the Republic of Croatia, which are processes that have been organised in a way that accuses you of any of the Croats and you are now in prison, which is 15, 16, 17 years ago. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2923	Members of our 225th and 226th Rules of Procedure give us the opportunity to, while the Guardian of Citizens is present, ask him for information and an explanation of all that is necessary for MPs and citizens who have been allowed to work here illegally. Mr. Jankovic, in this proposal for a decision, you have proposed four deputy citizens' protectors and covered four of the five areas foreseen by the relevant member of the Law on the Protector of Citizens. However, there is one area that is not covered – from this I am drawing the conclusion that you are covering this area – which is a Corps of freedom and the rights of man and citizen, which is a much better term than this one is now what they are using, human rights fighters, which applies to something general, which cannot be placed in any of these five categories. For example, it is the freedom and right of man and citizen to gather peacefully, it is the right citizen to choose and be chosen. That part isn't covered or, to be precise, it's only covered in the part as far as the government's authority is concerned. I'm not going around these peace gathering rights right now, political association and the electoral right to discuss things further. I hope you've figured out how long this intervention of mine has been going on. So, just to the point of asking the proper authority of the state administration. Now, I'd like to draw your attention, since anyone can proceed with you, so consider this a motion to initiate the procedure. You see, in Article 55. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the latest (all praised it, was not only praised by these Cedins, but when they entered the Assembly, count on them to accept the Constitution as well), it is said that secret and paramilitary associations were banned. We now have a situation here that we have a secret and paramilitary association and that's what the media has accepted. They say -- forward Serbia, forward Serbia. They say -- right, we're a political party. They weren't even founded. If someone acts and isn't founded, what kind of organization is that? It's a secret organization. But, Mr. Jankovic, it's an even bigger problem when the president of the National Assembly to claim the right of this paramilitary and secret organization to be present here, so the state media is pushing for it, etc. You know why, Mr. Jankovic? In order to abuse the proper provision of criminal regulations, we have citizens who have immunity and cannot be held accountable. You know, you'll have...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2924	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2925	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2926	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2927	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, I have answered my word only to realize that we are consensual and we are glad that we all in this room believe that the pensioners, the vast part of the pensioner, live very badly. We agree fully with that, and we are glad that you will help us to resolve it. In this regard, we have sent all parliamentary groups a bill on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Please, let us look for common solutions and help us here, in that very sense, as you have spoken here. As for the promises that have been made here, I believe that we have promised and that we will keep it. The government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation is very clear and precise and will be applied as of November this year. The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has been prepared and please keep it in mind. The last thing I want to say - our coalition partner was the second to prepare this devastating law for pensioners. I won't mention him here. When the law was passed, the same minister, who was both minister and MP, was the 126th vote when the law was passed, and some parties came out of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2928	The word is Mrs. Verica Radeta, then Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 1, and on Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly answered my question. On Friday, SRS MPs repeatedly advertised the Rules of Procedure and asked you, Madam National Assembly President, to explain how a group of citizens who did not participate in the last elections were sitting in the National Assembly instead of the MPs. We asked to return the kidnapped mandates to the Serbian Radical Party. You didn't answer that specifically, you said it wasn't in your jurisdiction, etc., but now I want a new argument to add to everything we talked about on Friday. It is known that the SRS won 78 parliamentary mandates among other things and because we claimed in the campaign that we would never co-operate with those who bombed Serbia, that we would never have secret or public meetings with the US ambassador because of their greatest responsibility for taking away the province of Kosovo and Metohija. Meanwhile, we have a public recognition of the citizen Nikolic who leads this group, who is still sitting in the National Assembly, that he met with the US ambassador, that he will continue to do so, because why not, and on this basis he has actually confirmed what the party president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and all of us around him, had actually met with the US and English ambassador and secretly. If he admitted that it was now public, that it was at a rally, where there were a dozen people, at a reception, I don't know what it means, means -- that he was taking it out in an election campaign, quite certainly the SRS voters wouldn't vote for him or for those who represent the thesis. In this sense, he lied to the citizens during the election campaign, and the SRS never changed its position when it comes to the United States.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2930	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2931	I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2932	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2933	I called in an article. 225 and 226. However, I don't want to mention one injury - an MP comes out here and doesn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure, but comes out to find something. What's he saying? That he's glad. What else is he saying? To sit with those who have done damage to the government. But that's their problem. Let me continue, Mr. Jankovic, where I left off. The right, or freedom (but it is not a mistake when it is said) of Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I'd like to say to them that they understand, because the journalists are not going to publish what I'm saying anyway. It's like this: "The freedom of political, union and every other association and the right to remain outside each association." So we have citizens who have realised this part of freedom and have the right to remain outside the association. Is that clear? It's clear. He says I don't want to be a party member anymore, I'm leaving the party. The definition and something fundamental for all political parties is: those people who join a political party have given up little part of their freedom, so their freedom is not absolute. They gave up accepting the programme and the statutes of a political party (absolute freedom, in a political sense, there is only one who is not a member of any party) and they realize their political action and their freedom of political association in accordance with the rules of the political party they belong to. It can be, it can get out. He can come out voluntarily, he can come out violently, as a disciplinary measure. And that's clear. They now have absolute freedom. There are absolutely no single individuals sitting in this congregation. Here are the people who have been on election lists and accepted the rules of the electoral list and those political parties whose members they are. And here we have absolutely free citizens. However, that would only be according to the position of the first member. It's a much more important position here that secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden. Now we're represented here as something that isn't, and it belongs to an organization that doesn't exist. If something works as an organization and is not registered, it is not entered – it is classified. But this is even worse. The state media is pushing it. The DS said a few days ago -- these Tominas, give them rooms, give them everything, finish the job, it should end with the SRS. Why? To kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague. Mr. Jankovic, can you calmly be a contemporary...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2934	It's been three minutes. Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2935	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, 225 and 226. The predecessor, a member of the political PUPS party, confirms what I said right before him. He says, "Yes, we promised." That's exactly why you got the votes from the pensioners, and you're where you are. I have nothing against your promises, but I have against you not keeping your promises. Not only me, but Serbia's pensioners, Serbia's citizens are against not doing what you promised. Let me remind you, the portfolio in the Serbian government is in the hands of your president. Let me remind you once again what you promised - 17% pension increase from August 1st. Eat the cat. It's not August -- let's go in September, it's not September -- let's go in October. He's three months away by the end of the year. Now start saying that in the next or the next years, you're going to do it. You promised 15% later increase to achieve the 70% you promised in the election. You promised me a full pension since June. Why don't you do it? I would like to take the opportunity and time to remind the citizens of Serbia of a statement by the president of this illegal association of citizens sitting in the Assembly. In the paper 20 days ago, he says the SRS no longer exists. It reminded me of another statement, Stipe Mesic said: I have carried out the task, Yugoslavia is no longer. Whose task did you carry out, Mr Tomislav Nikolic? Stipe Mesic performed the task and therefore won the post of president of Croatia. What did you get for doing the job? And to let you know, you haven't done your job. The SRS exists, and it's much stronger now because it's gone out, cleaned up from domestic traitors.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2936	Mr. Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2937	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the assignment of police security to citizen Tomislav Nikolic, under Article 226, I request a notice and an explanation from Police Minister Ivica Dacic on the following issues. This is very important, and it fits into the subject of the protection of citizens. First, I demand a precise explanation from Police Minister Ivica Dacic: on what legal basis is police protection granted to the citizen Nikolic? Secondly, did the police reveal the identity of alleged ordermakers and executioners of the planned assassination of Mr Nikolic? I remind you that Mr Nikolic has informed the public that the police know the names of the persons who planned to liquidate him. Third, are those faces arrested? Fourth - if you have not arrested anyone so far, Mr Dacic, I ask you: does the police protection that you have assigned to Mr Nikolic mean that he could soon, as a penitent, become a witness associate, if he talks about his relationships with known tycoons Miroslav Miskovic, Beko and others, as Ljubish Buha Chume did in time in the case of his friends from the Surcinal-Zemun clan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2938	Mr. Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2939	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, I am speaking to you first. You're the first among the equals here and you're really carrying on for the new situation, perhaps even the greatest responsibility. There was a kind of coup in this congregation, but a very insidious, backdrop of a coup. More specifically, it is a blow to democracy, and democracy is the highest principle, perhaps the greatest achievement of human civilization. This insidious coup is in the language of our media, quite accepted, but this time unused for obvious political reasons, it's called flying over. It happened that a group of SRS MPs invented some new organization, a party, and left our parliamentary ranks. You didn't react. We at this pay phone warn what's going on, that it's... (President: Mr. Michaelovich, don't stick to the agenda. You're still on the content you've been on. I don't even stick to the agenda, so I answered after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (President: Let me just give you a suggestion first. You said he was a injured member of 226.) No, I said art. 104. Please let me finish. (President: Please, you are still talking about the content of the mandates. It was a subject he'd been dedicated to all day, to your insistence. Ma'am, I must warn you, as I have now spoken of some basic principles and achievements of the human race, I must tell you that this democracy would not be possible without the oratory. Oratorship is a technique where I can start talking about flowers and end up with a famous sentence -- Cartagena needs to be destroyed. So, you have to let me finish this thing, and then you have to make a verdict. I'm telling you, this is about the violation of democracy, the attack on democracy, the assassination. Nothing we do in this assembly is valid until we return the mandates to the SRS. The point is, ma'am, you should defend democracy. Radicals may not like them - not perhaps, but surely - but democracy should be that idea of leadership that makes you eventually there. You haven't done anything, you've ignored us since day one, especially on this matter. So, human rights can't -- that's what this new law of yours should look like -- to hurt themselves, but in parentheses: everyone, except for radicals. So much, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2940	Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2941	I hope you understand me. When I call in an article. 225 and 226, I'm not saying that these members are injured, but I'm using the rights that these two members give me. I want to bring an end, Mr. Jankovic, to what I started with some small, superficial analysis of article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm done there, you interrupted me - you're a contemporary. You are becoming today, unfortunately, the modernist of the attempted murder of Vojislav Seselj, and a very perfiduous scenario. The scenario is very simple: the weaker the SRS, the greater the guarantees that the prosecution can achieve its request and that the shakedown of the forced defender Vojislav Seselj so that he can strike smoother, and then, everything is calm, there is no one in Serbia to oppose. In addition, such an agreement was reached on September 7, 8th this year with Serge Brammertz, when he came to visit. So he overcame his prosecutorial post, continued as his predecessor, Carla del Ponte, to politically finish his job, and that's her wingman Zoran Djindjic -- take him away and don't bring him back. However, I must, Mr. Jankovic, warn you of some other things. Meanwhile, the paramilitary and secret coalition organisation with Boris Tadic and Miki Rakic. If you don't know who he is, it's the head of the cabinet, he's holding state security, listening, listening, bribery, all possible things that man has, because they installed him here to control Boris Tadic. This organization, the paramilitary and the secret, in a coalition with these (i.e. It's rightly called complicity) designed a system, so apparently transcripts of some conversations are being broadcast. Why? Because it stands in a motion to impose defenders on Vojislav Seselj. Then, on the day that we go to The Hague, they declare, someone allegedly threatened him with an assassination. And they lead the proceedings in The Hague and against Vojislav Seselj and against the entire leadership of the SRS because we allegedly put pressure on witnesses. You see, when the state doesn't react and prevent a secret and paramilitary organization, and here's your proof here, please, Mr. Jankovic, you need to get involved and be safe, it has nothing to do with politics, with DS political attitudes, the SRS. No, I don't. It is enough to look at which parties participated in the elections, which the parties are sitting here and everything will be clear to you. There's a small group of citizens who...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2942	It's been three minutes. The word is Mr. Djuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2943	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say again, for the sake of the truth, that there may be no second time that some of our promises, from the PUPS, have been made here and it has not been realized. Let me tell you right now, 10% has been achieved. The regulation has been adopted and will be implemented. As for 7% of what someone launchs, it's about amounts that are supposed to be normally, according to the applicable law, aligned with October 1st. As far as they're going to go, no one knows yet. We didn't even talk about it, that it would be our promise, because it goes according to the law. As for the law on pension and disability insurance, allow us, we also sent you, your MP group, a year ago a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on PIO, where there was also a harmonisation of 70%, about the reduction of the highest pension, about increasing the lowest pension, about social standards, all the problems that were posed by our pensioners, by pensioners. We gave it all to all the MPs. No one answered back then. Now there's a law on PIO and he'll be here soon, in our congregation. Please, let's do it then. We couldn't carry him out before. Look how we're doing. Please, it's not my fault, but I want to tell you that we have to tell the truth who she is. The pensioners know it well, we didn't promise them any towers in the clouds. I didn't get it wrong, everything's fine. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2944	Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2945	Reporting under Article 104. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about pensions, we must take into account the participation of PUPS in power and the way they chose a coalition partner. Negotiations with the PUPS made it clear by the SRS that it is very difficult to meet their requirements. That was one of the reasons why they left this coalition story and ran over to another coalition partner. They searched and insisted on 70% of the profits...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2946	Excuse me, Mr. Buha, which...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2947	I'm going back, I'm coming back, I'm on the subject, here's...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2948	Just tell me, you said a member of 104 was injured. Rules of Procedure. What attitude?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2949	Yes, dignity. We're breaking the law, I'm telling you. The Law on PIO clearly states that the commitment of the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2950	Please, just a reminder. Article 104 says: National MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to address one another with respect and not to use offensive expressions. The gentleman really didn't use offensive expressions, he didn't disturb any of this, he spoke to you with respect, so I don't know what was hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2951	It's hurt that this current government violates the law, the Law on PIO, because it doesn't pay...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2952	You've strayed from content, so I suggest you return or to dignity... Thank you. I've read the whole article 104. The word is Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2953	Madam Chairman, Article 104. The rules of procedure have been broken. The moment the dignity of the National Assembly was injured when one of the MPs came out and said something that was not true. And what the MP from this party (now has gone) said, yes, they suggested something, no one accepted. So wait, but you are in a coalition with them who have damaged you. Don't complain to us about your coalition partner.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2954	Mr. Krasic, you've moved away from the agenda. Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2955	It wasn't me, ma'am, from the agenda. I just explained how you were wrong in the application of article 104. But I'm calling in an article. 225th and 226th... (President:Here you go. )......................................................................................................... Mr. Jankovic will not leave this room without enough information. So someone's asking that the National Assembly be complicit in the elimination and liquidation of Vojislav Seselj. They know these well whose mandates are, but this state of indecision is maintained because The Hague buys time too. It's not as easy for them to impose a defense attorney. That's why I said: this small group of citizens may be a stone in the SRS shoe, but there is a stone around the door for Boris Tadic. You see, his coalition partners go out and talk about pensions. His second coalition partner today signs, the day after tomorrow the IMF, arrives at one, the other, the third, and the topic needs to be invented so that citizens don't have a chance to see what their vital interests are and what vital problems are. That's what this is about. And that's why you're keeping this group unidentified. There are those who have done things to each other, there are things to do, there are things to do, but it is for Mrs. Dejanovic and her profession. We're talking here about the Constitution, the law, the National Assembly, who can sit, who can pass laws and vote. Here's your proof, the secret paramilitary group is standing right here. For what? It's a political decision. Not a legal decision, as someone points us to a legal path. Who do you complain to, where to run a legal path in the National Assembly, how to run it, when everything is fundamentally annulled? It doesn't exist. Election will was changed when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. And now Tadic wants to define what the opposition may look like, because he must unconditionally meet every request from the UN tribunal. "Yellows" is not responsible for the return of Vojislav Seselj. The UN tribunal is not responsible for acquittal. Because, basically, there's nothing to put on the burden. Thirty-nine witnesses passed by, 39-0 led by Vojislav Seselj. (President: It's been three minutes. I'll do it again. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2956	Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2957	Madam Chairman, Article 101(1). Rules of Procedure. A gentleman from the PUPS who spoke a little bit misread me. I didn't say for a moment that you didn't promise. You promised, gentlemen. You promised the pensioners, that's why you got the votes. It's not that you promised, it's that you didn't do it. And it is that the resolutions are in your hands, and it is that you are the ruling party, that all together must have 126 MPs and make a decision. It's about whether you understand me or not. As for the disagreement within that coalition of yours, before you promised, you had to deal with Dinkic, many others, to see if it could be fulfilled. You are citizens of Serbia who have been promised 70% of the average salary by pensioners. There was nothing for a moment but the 10% you'd accumulated. Nothing's happened so far. He's throwing me a PUPS representative that he's gonna be. It was supposed to be 17% in August, so it wasn't. It was supposed to be in September, that's a second promise, so it's not. A little more and this third promise, that it will be in October, will not be fulfilled. While the pensioners wait for you to keep what you promised, many of them will no longer be among the living. Not because their life span is short, but because you will never be able, as it is, to keep those promises. Why don't you keep your promise to pay your pension in full from July? Why don't you just do it? What do you allow and that little church that citizens receive in the name of retirement to be divided into two parts? What about these 15.5% you promised recently? Gentlemen, you can't live off your promise. Ask since the drugs, and each of the pensioners must have at least one, two, three or four drugs to use to attach their health to working for 40 years, creating what your coalition partners have sold and disintegrated on the Buraser privatisation. What they could grab, they grabbed; what they didn't like, they shared with the godmothers, relatives and friends -- for three euros of sugarcane, for 23 million dollars of Sartid, etc. You see who you caught on the wheel with. Don't mind me, but who you're with, that's who you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2958	Mr. Mirko Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2959	Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try through this issue, given that it concerns today's topic, to show the citizens of Serbia what protection they will be and what protection they can expect in this country. I ask the question to the competent public prosecutor, the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2960	Please, within the framework of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you can speak where the Rules of Procedure has been injured and thus contribute to the return to the topic, so I ask you to formulate the question at the second session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2961	Madam President, allow me to explain, and don't count on me in my time. I want to exercise my right under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, which is valid, and this question refers to which faces and concerns today's subject. Let me ask you a question. The question is: Is there anything done about the crime committed by the responsible person at the Privatisation Agency during the auction sale on September 5th of this year? Please submit the transcript to these persons for the answer to the question. On 5 September, a state body, hence the Privatisation Agency, or a responsible person in this agency, committed a criminal offence under Article 340. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia - non-execution of a court ruling, for which a criminal offence is prescribed in prison from three months to three years. The criminal offence consists of the fact that the responsible person of the Privatisation Agency did not prevent the sale of the social enterprise, although the court's decision adopted a temporary measure prohibiting the sale of the company. Here, this is the court's solution. I will read only part of the disposition: The proposed provisional measure is adopted, so the privatisation agency is banned from making available in any way, advertising and making offers for disputed immovableities, receiving money in a deposit on behalf of the sale and closing of sales contracts on the sale of disputed immovableity. So, there's been a serious crime done here. The specific gravity of this criminal act is: firstly, what has been done by the state authority, i.e. the responsible person in the state authority; secondly, what has been done in spite of the judgment where an imperative order is made, therefore, prohibits auction sales; thirdly, the special weight of this criminal act does so by sending a certain signal. What kind of signal is sent to citizens of Serbia, tycoons and criminals? Serbian citizens have absolutely no legal protection and the haughtiness and passion of state authorities is an uncut category in this country. tycoons and criminals (I apologize to some if they consider themselves honest, so they are not in the same category) the message that, if their interest is at stake, there is no justice and law that can stand in their way. A while ago, Mr. Boris Tadic said he was moving towards a decisive fight against corruption and law-abiding. Whether it was just a declarative statement to fill out the newspaper columns or not, here's a chance to show. However, I am sure that, as in many cases, it is the saying, "What missed little Radojica, that welcomed parts of Radivoje." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2962	The word is a folk letter from the Verica Radet, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, the MP of the people, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not finish a three-minute notice on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I wanted to say that we Serbian radicals insist on finally solving the problem that has arisen in the Republika Srpska Assembly. I was surprised when Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said -- so you talked about it all day Friday, so you're not going to do it again? You know, we didn't talk about the story, we insist that democracy be introduced to the Serbian Parliament in the right sense. Because what Boris Tadic did by introducing a group of those who are excluded from the SRS into a special parliamentary group is absolutely opposed to democracy, contrary to the electoral will of citizens. If Boris Tadic will continue to support this group, if he will continue to make a mockery of the People's Assembly, of course with the fundamental question of what will happen to all those regulations that will eventually be passed in this system, when 20 Serbian citizens vote instead of MPs, then he will indeed bear great responsibility and actually bring great responsibility upon himself. We have been saying since the elections of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that Boris Tadic is introducing a dictatorship in Serbia. The fact that it is so in the government of the Republic of Serbia is no longer a question to anyone, but it is obvious that the dictatorship was also passed through in the Serbian Parliament. We are therefore asking Boris Tadic -- or that honestly, as Pinochet in his time, says he suspends democracy or that he behaves democratically -- let the SRS return the mandates that have been taken from the SRS. So, we have no problems in the party, but we have a problem with Boris Tadic, who together, probably in agreement with both Manter and the citizen Nikolic, took away 20 mandates belonging to the SRS, which in the last parliamentary elections received the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2964	The issue of the People's Parliament concerns the status of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the procedure for trusting and ending the mandate of Members of Parliament. In the National Assembly there are 250 citizens and citizens of various nationalities and 250 MPs and MPs, with all rights and obligations and duties. People's MPs Momir Markovic and Verica Radeta are getting it. Please remember that it is the obligation of the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure, to which the infringement is called or not called, as is my obligation to give notice and information which the MP has sought through the violation of Rule 226. In the National Assembly there are 250 MPs and MPs, with all the rights, duties and obligations that the status of a trusted mandate implies, and the style that will be used for the speaker does not produce any fact, except, of course, that the freedom of each of us as a pay phone is to express labels or to use style and nouns instead of - a national MP. As regards the term of office in the National Assembly - there has been no withdrawal or termination of the term of office under the law of the prescribed terms, or of the mandate of other members, or candidates from any election list, and the procedure is as follows: the applicant of the electoral list shall address the RIK and the Administrative Committee, because they have obtained conditions under the regulations and laws to suspend a member of parliament; this is decided by the Administrative Committee and the RIK; thereafter, the applicant of the electoral list shall submit a request for the entrustment of the mandate to another MP or MP. None of this happened in the National Assembly. I have no doubt that the MPs who are speaking at the National Assembly express the need for a change of mandate. The procedure is in front of MPs, i.e. the applicant of the electoral list. The word is given by MP Momo Colakovic, followed by MP Miroslav Markicevic utters injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2965	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable People's MPs, we are unfortunately the oldest MPs, and according to the parliamentary internship, the youngest, so we probably don't get along very well. What I'm saying is that we started to keep our promises and that's true. That's what the pensioners will find out and feel. The regulation has been adopted and will be paid in the manner that the regulation has been regulated. With regard to the new Law on PIO or supplementation and amendments to the Law on PIO will follow in the course of this year. We prepared it. I draw attention once again and ask that you help us, since you promised, we have promised together, you in our campaign, we in our campaign -- let's bring it in and let the pensioners live better. Please, in the end, we promise here - a year. Someone's been promising for 18 years, so he didn't make his promises come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2966	People's MP, in your speech, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? Article 104 is being dropped by MP Momo Colakovic. The People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2967	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, I appeal to Article 226, which I quote, for three minutes: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues under the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the function of the MP." I believe, in accordance with Article 226, that the conditions have been met to call on this member, so I'm asking something that's important for the performance of my function. I quote: "The municipal court in Cacak and that is the judge Vladan Filipovic, in the legal case of the prosecutor of the Serbian Orthodox monastery Vujan, represented by iguman Jova Nikitovic, against the accused from the social enterprise The natural resort of Gornja Trepca, the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Republic Public Defence Agency and the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, Terrazi number 23-26 (let's see who these people are, this should be listened to now by Mr Jankovic), in order to ban the sale of property, brought a 15. solution: a proposed temporary measure is being adopted, so it is prohibited for the defendants: the company natural resort, etc. ''There is therefore a state body that does not respect judicial decisions, and here we are constantly talking about the rule of law, the legislative, the executive and the separation of those powers. So there is a court decision, this is what the citizens of Serbia need to know. Under some communist law, the gangs that ruled after 1945, the country was taken away from the Vujan monastery. In 2006, the Law on the Restitution and Return of Property to Religious Communities was passed. It's another law I'm calling upon before the Guardian of Human Rights. None of that is respected. I ask you that the competent ministries, the state authorities, I do not know whether Mr. Jankovic has the right to go out for this pay phone, I think we should all vote to go out for this pay phone here, because he has a specific case, I will copy it and give it to him to say what he has done - is the Orthodox Church, is it the iguman Jova Nikitovic, do they have human rights? Do they have any rights in this country, if the municipal court makes a temporary measure, I am so legally educated that I know what it means, it's a judicial decision, and then the Privatisation Agency sells, privatization, and it leads to error and man, or the gentlemen who bought it, they may think they bought it, but finally justice will come. Since 1945, the assets of the SPC have been seized and the law in 2006 remains unrespectable. Is the young generation in leather coats now ruling the state of Serbia? I don't want to believe it, and I'm going to fight New Serbia to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2968	I ask the service of the National Assembly that a stenogram of the discussion of Parliamentarian Miroslav Markevic directs the Ministry of Justice and delivers the answer to him and the National Assembly. The protection of citizens in its basic activity, under the law we have passed, is tasked with protecting citizens from the mistreatment of state authorities. The agenda we are on is the choice of his deputies, but if he wants to, he can get a word as a proposing and take part in the debate and on this matter. The word of the People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, the pronunciation of the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of Articles 100, 3rd and 4th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Komic, after my discussion on the basis of Article 226, you tried to explain to me how, in accordance with the law, MPs in the Serbian Parliament could change. Mrs. Komic, unlike you and Mr. Citizen Nikolic, I am a graduate lawyer and I know perfectly well how to read and interpret regulations. You said earlier, it should happen the next way, and I'll tell you how it actually happened. It happened that Manter, Tadic, Serge Brammertz agreed to fill Zoran Djindjic's amanet that Vojislav Seselj would not return alive to Serbia. That's why they needed to break up the SRS. That is why they used Tomislav Nikolic, who tried to weaken the SRS with a failed coup, to force Dr Vojislav Seselj, along with the Stallion Council and others in The Hague. The imposition of defenders Vojislav Seselj means his death and everyone knows it in both Serbia and The Hague. It was supposed to happen in peace and quiet, to weaken the SRS, not even 50 people on the street to demonstrate when something like that happens, and that's the scenario. So, don't you, Mrs. Comic, talk to us about the legal aspect, we're talking about the political aspect of what's going on in the National Assembly. We link this because we know for sure that it is a continuing action of the UN tribunal and the Serbian authorities. We're just asking Boris Tadic, I'll repeat, if he thinks we're wrong to say nicely that he, who I repeat to Pinochet in time, should suspend democracy and do whatever he wants. As long as they declare themselves a Democrats, and we claim to be a dictator, it is binding that from the post of president of the DS, who is involved in all this, and from the post of Serbian President, do what the SRS MPs are asking for, and that is to return our stolen mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2970	The People's Parliament called for a breach of the procedure of Articles 100, 2, 3 and 4, which says that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is, in his opinion, violated, that it quotes and explains what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. The next position: "The President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation after that"; and the final position: "If, even after the explanation of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue in the day of the vote." The content of your speech is that you are not referring to legal aspects but to political aspects. Calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure is a procedural and legal aspect. All I can do is, by respecting Article 100(3), I am responsible for the legal and procedural matters of the MP who is calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In what way will you political aspects of the topic that you are interested in explain, it is not my jurisdiction, it is your legitimate and legal political will. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, saying the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2971	By respecting your wrong direction, the legal aspect of what I'm about to say is in article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. By respecting your instructions, the legal aspect of the second part of my presentation will apply to the article. 225 and 226. If I don't have to quote it, I'm asking permission to move on. Let's move on to Article 27. It's not an injury, Mrs. Comic. She committed one injury which gave absolutely the wrong direction about how the mandate ended, but I didn't answer for it. The 27th incontinent injury has long been done by the president of the National Assembly. I think that's the other part, Art. In 225 and 226, they give me the right to address Mr. Protector of Citizens, and I will ultimately propose a solution to this situation to how to protect all citizens. So here we have the complicity of some people, who are a secret and paramilitary organization, with the tendency to become officials of the UN Prosecutor's Office or of this war crimes prosecutor's office. You know, I always get chilly when the best man hits the best man. Our history is full of such events. When a godfather hits a godfather, he doesn't choose funds. These days we have this, however, Tadic fits the situation. He's comfortable with the situation, so he's comfortable with the situation of sending the entire SRS to prison. Who makes it possible? The President of the National Assembly, who in the most harsh way possible violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Jankovic, I am not going to say as some of you here our Deputy Prime Minister, so the regulation has been passed, so we guarantee, MPs guarantee that the regulation will be implemented. Please, it's a story for little children. Mr. Jankovic, I think there is an opportunity within your jurisdiction to bind the National Assembly, in that administrative section, that every MP should have a mirror and that the MP downstairs writes on that mirror, so when he looks to see that he is indeed a National MP. I remember, sometimes the DS kept saying we were DS, like a kid when he drew a horse, so it's not like a horse, they write a horse underneath. Instead of DS, the MP should stand forward, Serbia, because only in the mirror can they be MPs. There's no other place they can be. They stepped out of the political party. The presidency lady made it possible, she said, enough is enough for five to write that they are a parliamentary group, they are a parliamentary group. Who's he admitting it to? To those who fought the most to make the parties the owners of the mandate, so the method was one, now we have method two. To whom it corresponds: The Hague tribunal and Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2972	National MP Zoran Krasic asked a question under Article 226 of citizens' protector Sasa Jankovic, who, as I understand it, concerned the purchase of mirrors. The People's Messenger throws it away - whether he wants me to explain it to him, that I didn't understand. We can take a look at the stenogram. So in the part of the speech concerning the appeal to Article 226, it was about the need for MPs to have mirrors, which was provided by Sasa Jankovic, who is there to protect citizens from the mistreatment of state authorities and authorities of the administration. The National Messenger Natasa Jovanovic throws away - and false messengers. I would ask you to decide whether you want to violate the procedure and respect of the Rules of Procedure or whether you want political debates, or whether you want both, or whether you want only the MPs of the SRS to have the right to say what they want and the effect of their words to remain both in the O.R. and in the transfer. This last one can't be done by the Rules of Procedure. So, mirror, given the good co-operation of MP Zoran Krasic and me, and as MPs and as chairman, I will give him as much as tomorrow. The question under article 4 of the 100th is whether you are satisfied will be asked when MPs who have already reported to make a breach of the Rules of Procedure receive a word in accordance with Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2973	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not, of course, respond every time to those who receive instructions to attack me, and one thing should be clear to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, The Hague tribunal's prosecution has filed a motion to impose a defence attorney on Vojislav Seselj. What does that have to do with me? If only 20 of us left the SRS, how come only 50 of you will be at a rally to support Vojislav Seselj? The term of office belongs to me, I keep it in my pocket. If I want to give it back to you, I'll give it back to you, if I don't, I won't give it back to you. But don't tell me Boris Tadic will be a Democrats if he decides to give you your mandates back. In a country where the President of the Republic decides who will hold the mandates, there is no democracy but only dictatorship. What's most important, my dear ladies and gentlemen, at the time I was deciding how you're going to behave, the high-ranking party officials didn't wear yellow shirts like today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2974	National MP Tomislav Nikolic did not point out which member was injured. People's MPs are getting a question - which member? Respecting the agreement that an MP seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure can at any time state which member of the Rules of Procedure is subject to a procedural objection, I ask that question in the third minute of each MP's presentation. You can check for a stenogram. National MP Tomislav Nikolic finished his presentation before the Rules of Procedure provided time to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure and was therefore questioned, as did MP Momo Colakovic, when he had already finished his presentation. The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, the People's Messenger Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have reported to the members of 225 and 226. During the presentation of the Rules of Procedure, the deputy head of the parliamentary group, Miroslav Markevic, was informed that there was no tone again in the direct transmission and when some of the MPs who spoke afterwards. So we were informed that there was no tone in the direct TV transmission of this session again. The question arises whether this has now become some sort of maneuver when one of New Serbia's MPs comes out for this pay phone and gives important information to Serbian citizens. You know that some time ago we had an extremely unpleasant situation, when the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Velimir Ilic, spoke here, also there was no transmission. Now, his deputy, Miroslav Markicevic, was speaking, and there was no tone. I request a notice from the chairman, the president of the National Assembly, to be informed of why there was no tone when someone from New Serbia spoke. This is the second time in a very short time to repeat the same situation. So Velimir Ilic almost spoke, there was no tone, now Mr. Vice President Miroslav Markicevic has launched an extremely important topic in front of our public defender, there was also no tone. I'm looking for an urgent notice on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2976	I ask the National Assembly and the Secretary of the National Assembly to immediately request an explanation of the service of RTS technique and to provide this notice in writing to the MP Srdjan Spasojevic and the National Assembly. The openness and direct transmission of the session is a common heritage and I can only express my hope that it is indeed a technical sauce, as was twenty seconds during the presentation of the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Velimir Ilic, at the previous session. The word is made by MP Nikola Savic, the pronunciation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 23. I am the second member of Parliament in this assembly, but some things are not clear to me today, at least when it comes to this mentioned article 23. I will quote the first position of this Article 23, of course, which refers to the formation of parliamentary groups, which says, "The National Assembly is educated by the parliamentary groups as a rule no later than 7 days from the day of the election of the National Assembly president." The president of the National Assembly has been elected a long time ago, and a new group of MPs has recently been formed, Serbia. If this article says by the rule and when something is said by the rule, that means that everything else goes beyond that rule is an exception. It's clear here that an exception has been made. When an exception is made beyond the rules, then any exception must be well and properly explained in order to make it clear to everyone. The president of the National Assembly has not given a valid explanation to this day, which has led to the resignation of this member and the formation of the Progressive Parliamentary Group, Serbia. Therefore, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226 and in relation to Article 23, I ask the President of the National Assembly for an explanation of what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2978	Formatting Members' Groups per article. The 23rd was coming from the moment of the constitution of the new assembly, and after the May 11th elections, and within the legal deadline, the first, of seven days, you can also check for how many parliamentary groups there were and how many parliamentary groups, concluded with the final parliamentary group of Forwards, Serbia, formed in the National Assembly under Article 23, how many were formed after that first deadline when the first parliamentary groups were formed. I assume you have that information, given the experience of the MP. Neither the first nor the last parliamentary group formed pursuant to Article 23. The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, MP Momir Markovic, after which, saying the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of Article 101(2) has been injured to quote it - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a parliamentary party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. I would return to a statement that was made at the pay phone that at the time that Tomislav Nikolic was head of the SRS parliamentary group, if we hadn't worn yellow shirts. I would like to say, because of Tomislav Nikolic and the public of Serbia, that is not true. Just work, we are a democratic party in which we have the opportunity to express our opinions, our views, to oppose. We're just about to belong to a party where someone tells us how to dress. The way we dress, it's a matter of our material possibilities first of all, another thing is taste or some advice, some resort to assistants in that direction, it's so-called. Styleists who take care of the staging, because they think it's the basic thing in life, when you get the chance to follow certain trends. I'd say something else that's much more important. We can all dress in yellow or any other color, that's a whole other thing. What is more important and more important is what we represent, what we stand for and what is the background of all this. I'll remind you of what independence means and what it means to be on its own path. You remember Friday, when the Administrative Board was scheduled to meet and to withdraw immunity from some judges regarding the procedure that was initiated. Then you from the "yellow" company asked the SRS, given the problems you have, to allow the session to be interrupted, to meet the Administrative Board, to make a decision on the Administrative Board, to continue the session and to take away the immunity of that judge. We said there was no problem. It is in our interest that the fight against crime and corruption is being fought at all levels, but we have asked for one condition that Tomislav Nikolic does not chair the Administrative Committee. The head of the DS parliamentary group said, "No problem at all, it's done." Now, you all assess what kind of man that allows himself... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm sorry, you're right... who allows himself to be ordered by someone to chair the Administrative Board and not by them. That's the basic thing. The president of remote control, the control from the building across the street. That's what the problem is, not how you dress... (President: Four minutes. ..... and what you're going to think.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2980	National MP Dragan Todorovic made a violation of the second position of Article 101, which reads: - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party, whose MPs belong to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply on behalf of the parliamentary group. The next point is that in the cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2. (in paragraph 2, the MP has been called upon) by the President of the National Assembly and that the replica cannot last longer than three minutes. National MP Dragan Todorovic, by decision of the chairman, so by my decision, won the right to replication and it is discreet... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I advertised the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic called for article 2 101, which says that the right to replication has been violated and I have decided to grant him the right to the replica, regardless of the agreement and the usual for those who pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure to receive a word before those who seek a replica. So MP Dragan Todorovic either called on the wrong member, or he didn't want a replica, or he wanted a breach of the Rules of Procedure because someone else didn't get the replica, but I guess we understood each other. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: We will ask for an opinion from the Administrative Committee. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic insists that we will request an opinion from the Administrative Committee. I ask the Assembly's service to get this into the stenogram and be referred as a request for the work of some of the first sessions of the Administrative Committee. The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so the MP Sulejman Spaho, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP Zoran Krasic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the People's Parliament Tomislav Nikolic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Vice-President of the National Assembly to help me conduct a session with the name of the MP who applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: if you knew his name. The People's MP insists that the vice president doesn't know what they're called. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: The Lord is called Slobodan Vukovic, and the one who throws away, I don't know his name).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating a harsh and permanent violation of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Before I go to that, let me say that I will no longer enter the controversy with the gentlemen of the PUPS, because they have literally confirmed everything I have said, that they have only promised and now they even say -- we promise only a year, and some have promised 18 years. Does that mean, gentlemen, that you're asking for the right to promise the pensioners for another 17 years? They promised many others, the president of the SRS MP club, Mr Tomislav Nikolic Kosovo, in the form of Serbia, Serbia without Kosovo, never in Europe, etc. But let's go back to Article 23, quote it as a whole, try to figure out what that member says. He says, "In the National Assembly, MP groups are educated, according to the rule no later than seven days after the election of the President of the National Assembly. ''It is estimated that seven days after the election of the National Assembly president, it is sufficient for the parliamentary groups to form their parliamentary groups. It is estimated that those who have fewer than five MPs can agree so far and form a parliamentary group. He says, "The Emissary Group consists of the MPs of one political party, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have at least five MPs. ''A group of citizens was thought to be able to appear in the parliamentary elections and to win two or three parliamentary mandates and to approach and form a parliamentary group with it as such. Item 3: ''Employment group of at least five members may, by association, be educated by the MPs of political parties, other political organisations or groups of citizens who have fewer than five MPs. ''I have just explained in the previous part this formation of parliamentary groups by political parties and other organisations that have less than five. The parliamentary group shall be established by establishing the President of the National Assembly, etc. So, gentlemen, in article 23 -- parties, political organisations, groups of citizens who participated in parliamentary elections. Today, we have a situation where MPs are represented by a group of citizens who have not participated in parliamentary elections, neither as a group of citizens, nor as a political party, nor as a political organisation... The chairman. Three minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2982	On the basis of Article 23, after the first formation of parliamentary groups seven days after the election of the National Assembly president, five other parliamentary groups were formed. The "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group is the sixth to be formed from a seven-day deadline that describes the first position in the article you quoted. I do not think there is any breach of the first position of that member and that the formation of parliamentary groups is common in our Assembly, and by procedure and by the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 23. The People's Messenger Sulejman Spaho has the word, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Ten minutes ago, I received a phone call, not this time, from someone threatening me, but from Milena Stepanovic, a school pedagogogogist OS "Peter Tasic" by Loznica. After 30 years, she was fired just because she pointed out the lack of the school director, normal school inspectors and school inspectors. Since Mr. Jankovic is here, and the protector is a citizen, I am speaking to you. We have the material here, so I'll probably give it to you later, and I'm also talking to the Ministry of Education, and especially Minister Zarka Obradovic, who has repeatedly said that he will protect the workers of education at such moments. It is only one reason why the law on education was passed, so the law by Gašo Knezevic gives the directors the opportunity to introduce themselves and they can in any way fire workers at the time when they do not like them because of the truth to them. As for these things, too, Milena Stepanovic and her entire family told me that what they did to Tomislav Nikolic and their group was a disgrace and a disgrace.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2984	Infringements of labour rights, which were covered by the presentation of MP Suleiman Spaha, should be given to the Ministry of Labour or the Labour Inspectorate, if you agree, as well as to the Ministry of Education, since you only listed in the presentation the Ministry of Education as asking for an answer. I think that's going to come out of the loop, so I'm asking you from the scene, because you didn't point out in the presentation that it was the Labour and Ministry of Labour Inspectorate. Would you like a stenogram of your exposure to them too? Thank you. An answer to be delivered to the People's Messenger and to the People's Assembly. The word is proposed by the public defender, Saša Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2985	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, you are today discussing the selection of Deputy Protectors of Citizens. I am grateful for every word, every suggestion, every suggestion, every piece of information you've given me during today's session. There were some questions, and I'd say maybe it's time for me to answer some of them or give them the right information. One of the questions that has been raised about the Deputy Protectors of Citizens is that it is realistic in relation to the justification of the legal provision that they do not have to be lawyers. I would like to say that the Ombudsman everywhere in the world, and even in Serbia, is not a citizen's lawyer, so it does not represent their interest in any other body, but the complaint of citizens objectively, objectively examines whether the complaint was established, whether the state authority of the administration acted correctly, securely, and if not, suggests a way to correct that irregularity. Well, in most countries in the world, they're not lawyers, because we lawyers sometimes tend to look at things from a purely formal point of view. It is possible that when a formal right is not violated, the right of citizens is violated, it is, in fact, the essence of my job, that I respond and that I demand that the essence be fulfilled, rather than that, by protecting behind the legal norm, provide protection for those who do not do their job securely. In this domain, I would not recommend any changes in this regard. I also remind you that the ombudsman deputies are my deputies who, by the letter of the law, help me in my work, and that all the legal aspects of every issue raised before us are processed in the professional service, which, according to the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should number 63 men and women, four deputies and my little one. The NGO, NGOs, is also mentioned. I want to make it clear from here that I don't think NGOs are evil, I don't think the fact that the deputy civil defenders have in their biographies and references from NGOs, that it's bad, on the contrary. Everywhere in the world, the main force behind the Ombudsman is the public, the non-governmental sector and parliament. I hope that what I'm doing and what I've done and what my deputies will do will have stronger support than you. Many of the questions you have raised, the views of citizens' protectors can already be found in the annual report to the National Assembly, as required by the law, on the last day of March and published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. There are a number of issues you have talked about, and above all from the area of economic and social rights, there are a number of issues in the area of freedom of association. I would really like you to find time and discuss this report, and find a way to make sure that what is in it and what you yourself have come to realize is done in practice by improving the work of the authorities of the state administration. It's a question of space. I must really say, and that is something that is said in the annual report, not only by the protection of citizens but by all independent state institutions that have significant powers in the area of protection of rights or the fight against corruption do not work under appropriate conditions. I said and wrote that to a large extent, and it wrote to you, the MPs, that to a large extent, this is the consequence of corruption, unhappiness, self-will and bureaucratic misbehaving, which is why the citizens of Serbia in their contacts with the state administration are also suffering. I ask you to help me, as it should be, as Parliament should be supporting the protection of citizens and to deal with this issue together. Five areas are mentioned for Deputy Protectors of Citizens and Four Deputys. I said that this is a illogicality which I hope, in the next period, based on amendments that I will submit to correct, but not particularly in quality, we will be deprived of protection from the institution of protection of citizens, because in everyday contact all my deputies and I deal with these issues intensively. Some specific questions have been asked to me. I am taking advantage of the opportunity and now to say that the law requires me to ask citizens to start all regular legal medicines for every particular violation of citizens' rights. However, on the basis of a large number of cases that I have, and my work and work of my associates, it is that from morning to night we listen to what citizens consider to be an injustice, we have already come to the conclusion that every time a competent court delivers a verdict, which is valid, which is final, and the authorities of the state administration do not carry out that verdict, even though the citizens are at their disposal and the right to seek new judicial protection and to initiate criminal proceedings against those who do not carry out the verdict, in any case, any such case which is before my institution or which I find out, we will, our position, initiate proceedings, and so on this case which has been carried out. However, I repeat, the protection of citizens is not a lawyer in terms of protecting the rights of a party, but as we always do, we will consider both the response of the authorities and assess whether there really was a will. The moment we speak, now it's one hour, I'll tell you that if the average is what we can call a rule, at least 10 citizens have already filed a complaint with the public defender today. I ask you once again to help us by selecting the Deputy Protectors of the Citizens, we ourselves are more effective and faster in solving those problems that are causing our citizens to address us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2986	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2987	Although, Mrs. Komic, when you chair the very strange application of the Rules of Procedure, I am not going to say in the end which member of the Rules of Procedure, but in the words chosen, I am going to tell you that I am not referring to Article 104 but to Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Ma'am, you've violated Article 27, not Article 104. Since you couldn't interpret what I suggested, so you instructed some members, 226, and I don't know which ones, you found fit to be funny and to make DS laugh. You did it. You said you interpreted it by buying me a mirror. Mrs. Komic, if I had said by chance that I would have bought you a mirror, if you had looked at yourself, I would probably have offended you and probably caused a storm of legitimate reaction by some MPs. Of course, I am still keeping an eye on these discussions, which may be a bit drab, perhaps a little unreasonable, but I always try to make everything clear to the most ordinary citizens who understand this simple Serbian language. Just now, a citizen came out here and got a big round of applause from the yellow company. He especially got a round of applause or, to be more specific, he's been getting applause since he was released by Boris Tadic. When something Boris Tadic drops, of course it can be yellow. It smells a little bit, though, but it's yellow. We're definitely around the colors. Although, since you're doing the choletons, I recommend you to the Coloton Five, so you'll be more comfortable in uniform and let me tell you one thing: the mandates aren't in your pocket. If I put my hand in my pocket and pull something out, you can interpret what that would be, but there will be no mandate. Do not insult the National Assembly by claiming that the mandates are in your pocket. So, Mrs. Comic, don't worry. That inappropriate joke didn't change my relationship with you. I think it's better for you and for me that you hurt Article 27, not 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2988	Article 27, which you are calling for to be injured, I can only ask you if you would like to make a statement to the Assembly in the day of the vote? You don't want to. As for previous remarks, we can read together a stenogram of your presentation and my answer and see that the question in Article 226 mainly referred to the subject that I later gave you the information about. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, for the sake of the public, I would like to quote Article 104 and Article 23. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so you don't count my time on this exhibit. So stop the time. Article 104 states that MPs have a duty to respect the dignity of the National Assembly; MPs are obliged to address one another with respect and that they are not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor are they to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of others. One citizen who presented some facts about the dress of certain MPs, who wants to present himself as a Democrats, who now claims to have been, in fact, autocrats, because he ordered and how we must dress, and how to comb, and in what color hair we paint, brought here something that offended some MPs, given that we have freed ourselves from that autocracy and that we are, in essence, the right democratic party within the party itself. Why did I ask for article 23 to be read? The Constitution? It's in Chapter Human Rights and Freedoms. So, "human dignity is uncircumcised and everyone is obliged to respect and protect it." We also reviewed this in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "Everyone has the right to freely develop a person unless it violates the rights of others covered by the Constitution." So no one disputes Mr Nikolic's right to do whatever he wants, to establish associations, to join the pigeon association, the association of people who bake brandy. The only thing he can't, he can't guard the sheep, and no one can trust him to guard the sheep, because it can happen that he loses them or, God forbid, steals them, just like he stole those resignations we gave him. He has the right to go to school, he can also get a degree in high-level professional training, provided he's enrolled in some college, say "Singidunum" or Karic University, or something like that. By reading a little more of this Constitution, which we have brought in in time, I understand why Mr Nikolic only co-opted himself into that Committee on Constitutional Affairs and none of us MPs of the National Assembly, and that is how all this is now about stealing the mandate of the SRS MPs. Your mandate, Mr. Nikolic, does not belong to you, but to the SRS. And my mandate belongs to the SRS. I trusted you, and I gave you my resignation in advance, you stole it from me. That'll be settled in court by you and me. Maybe others will go my way, I don't know, but it showed what kind of man you really are. You have violated your actions since you were expelled from the SRS article 41. The Constitution. I'm talking about the presence here of a man who should be concerned about the protection of all these rights of citizens, which is the right concerning the secrecy of letters and other means of communication which, according to the Constitution, are inviolable. One day we will publish to Mr. Nikolic, all these stenograms, when we praise the god Vojislav Seselj alive and well into the country, there will be another book from 1000 pages, 2000 pages, maybe there will be, all of these transcripts and conversations, but it would be good for you to publish those conversations you had with both the party president and many others you went to, all of your conversations, so that the public will judge who lies. If a goat lies, what they say, the horn doesn't lie. (President: Four minutes. There are many of us here who have been present about many of the conversations that you are now presenting in a completely different way. My recommendation is - give me some now, you have time, you have schooling. However, your party was a party of educated people, although founded by King Milan, to destroy the Radical Party, as it is now founded by King Tadic, to weaken the Radical Party again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2990	You have four minutes and 30 seconds of speech. Please bring the end. The call for respect for the dignity of the National Assembly implies that the dignity of the National Assembly is respected by the respect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which determine the length of time to express the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are people here I don't want to delve into because I'm going to need them when we're about to take Serbia forward. But my mandate is in my pocket, and you, however you want to interpret it, interpret it. You'll never have a Gordana on whose shoulder to cry when you're pushed by a cheating mistress or one who hasn't become one. (Natasa Jovanovic from the place: shame on you, widow's wife, bastard. I didn't think Gordana had mistresses, but... someone's mistress. So it's hard for people who grew up in the patriarchate to accept the matriarchate. That's where I understand one of the MPs who just came out to tell me about -- how there's democracy in the SRS, so even all of you are free to wear whatever you want, which, of course, is quite true, but then how can you think of wearing T-shirts with Seselj's character? What coincidence is it that 78 of us will one day wear all the same shirts? Is it possible that no one told us what we're going to wear one day -- yes, it is, and we have spoken it, because we consider it part of our obligation to our MP group. As for the Administrative Committee, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation was such that the SRS said - if the chairman of Tomislav Nikolic will not participate in removing immunity from the judge and we will not allow you to continue the session by removing immunity. Then I accepted not to chair that session so that this immunity of the judge would be removed. I'm not the president on the rope and on the button. If we agree now never to give up again... I know how you feel, Mr. Todorovic. I'm the only one who feels sorry for you here. Look how much you appreciate those people you're surrounded by -- I know you don't appreciate them at all. So if we agree now never to give up the presidency again - I will never give up again. If you set the condition for justice to be done again, and I do not chair, I will give up the presidency again. I know you're still in some sort of imaginary relationship, imaginary fear. A lot of you started hating me for the night. I don't hate you. I would never look at you Gordana with as much hate as you would me. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: You betrayed us. I didn't betray you, Gordana. You betrayed yourself. (President: three minutes. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. You complained that your party president was checking out every contract in the municipality. Whoever's lying - don't eat lunch, there you go. So, I don't have any problem with what I did. You have a problem with what you haven't done, with what you're doing right now, and it's not taking you anywhere. I'm telling you, leave us there, contact the institutions to resolve the fate of the mandate. Don't talk to Boris Tadic, he's not the one. God forbid if Boris Tadic is to resolve the fate of these mandates, then this is not a state, then you consciously accept to be Boris Tadic's best associates. Maybe you'll tell him - take their mandates and we'll end the obstruction. Maybe that's how you do politics. (President: Time is four minutes. I'm done, I'm sorry. The things I've been through, I won't even answer today. But just so you know, you have a group of MPs here, forwards, Serbia, you have a Serbian People's Party, accept that fact. Accept that fact. We'll be here after the next election, I'm not sure for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2992	The word has been issued by MP Slobodan Vukovic, pointing out the injury, deputy head of the parliamentary group Gordana Pop-Lazic, the right to replicate the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2993	I think it's logical, Madam Chairman, to report for the replica. I'm not like a woman offended because what Mr. Nikolic really thinks about me matters to me. I have a lot of colleagues here who have known me for many years, I have friends outside the party, I have family, I have three children, I am a widow, and as far as any lover is concerned, everyone here knows it, so even Mr. Nikolic whose house my late husband and I, that an honest woman, have been loyal to my husband for 30 years. He was at my husband's funeral. But, Mr. Nikolic, I don't want to talk about how many times you've cried on my shoulder about the many problems you've had with your mistresses and your wife. Therefore, your concern about how many people will appear at some rally that the SRS will hold about Vojislav Seselj or any other issue will be about your potential, I mean the political potential, which now may be something greater than you think, but until the next elections and one and another potential will be at a very low level.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2994	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2995	Let me get one thing straight. You're a very educated woman, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I didn't say what you were reacting to. Please be careful what you listen to. So I made it very clear that it's very difficult for you to be commanded by someone's mistresses now, either accomplished or unfulfilled, and I didn't mean the late Slobodan at all. Don't, please, and him, and his children, and I respect you. Here, it's not easy, I'm not comfortable, it's not... I'm sorry you guys figured it out like that, I didn't mean it like that at all. Whoever was following saw that wasn't what I meant. Your colleague helped you to get the wrong idea. I really didn't want to offend anyone for one second, not just yours, no one's family. No one, not those who look at me now as if they were gonna kill me, I wish you all the most beautiful things in my life. You'll see for yourself how wrong you are. But please, don't, I have a terrible drink for Free, a terrible love for everything, no, I don't want any more...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2996	I'm setting a break until 3:00. It's 13.35, and at 15.00 we continue the afternoon work. The word has been broken by the Rules of Procedure, the first Slobodan Vukovic, followed by MP Momir Markovic, if you remain in the event that there has been an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2997	We can keep working. The word is Slobodan Vukovic. He's not there. Is Mr. Momir Markovic there? He's not there. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2998	I'm referring to Rule 27 of our Rules of Procedure. Due to these flying changes to the chairman, I would like to tell you in advance that you do not take it personally, what I am about to say refers to the period when Mrs Comic chaired. During this short period of presidency, besides the pathological desire to give lectures, of course wrongly, she committed a major injury to this member, who said I gave a word to a citizen, so she presented him as a national MP. That, I would say, has been the usual violation of the Rules of Procedure since Boris Tadic estimated that this is how he ends two jobs, one allegedly with the SRS, and the other with the process in The Hague. However, I must draw your attention to this citizen, and there is also a big problem when a citizen comes to the National Assembly and does not belong to any parliamentary group or political party, then he goes with uncontrollable statements. One of those statements from that citizen was that he didn't hate anyone, that he loved everyone. He insulted some women here and, of course, left the gym. Please, can anyone believe it? He says he wants good to the people, and at the same time he publishes some transcripts, unauthorized, and he is aware that he is thus helping The Hague's prosecution. Can you believe that a man has good intentions when, say, a scientific meeting is held in the House of Unions on Saturday and is protested for the attempted murder of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague, the same one we should trust in front of the "Russian Emperor" gathering a petition for the establishment of a party. I see now that this association between Albianic and Nikolic has produced truly permanent devastating results. You remember that Albianic remained remembered for while Mrs Đukic was a memorial to Slobodan Milosevic, he played balloons in the Republic Square and rejoiced. Here, we have the same situation that one paramilitary and secret organization, which is not yet a political party, so, of course, secret and paramilitary, is in the form of a small group of citizens present in this room, and you can see for yourself that they are on their way to achieving all the goals of The Hague tribunal and Boris Tadic. Of course, the question arises above all questions, who are the MPs of the National Assembly? I know you're going to do some weird thinking process to get us on some legal path, and is there a legal path here? There's something here that's the deal...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u2999	I'd like to remind you of your time. Mr Krasic, you said that Article 27, which says that the President of the National Assembly or the chairman of the work provided for in the Constitution, chaired the National Assembly session, took care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, took care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the Assembly, carried out other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. I have no information, no knowledge that Mrs Comic has violated the Rules of Procedure, or Article 27, since the debate involved the persons I have called, or the MPs. None of the 250 MPs have been able to discuss his mandate here, and you know what the Assembly can really do. The word has Free Vukovic, if it's there. He's not there. Nikola Savic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. And also let you know that by the end of this agenda we will be working today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Rule 104, which says: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "Before this break, a citizen, Tomislav Nikolic, who insulted the MPs of the SRS, spoke to the MPs, saying, speaking to Mr Dragan Todorovic, in this style -- you, Mr Todorovic, do not know who you are sitting with and thus insulted all SRS MPs. I'm really sorry Mr. Tomislav Nikolic isn't here, but I'll say, there must be some of his colleagues here to tell him. I don't want to say anything ugly about Tomislav Nikolic, but I want to say next. It was easy for Tomislav Nikolic to walk in the comfortable shoes of Vojislav Seselj, but now we all see that in the army suits are not doing very well. Tomislav Nikolic is a smart man, an educated man, regardless of his formal education has not led to the end. Maybe it's also because the road to Bajcetin doesn't lead past the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, but that's his problem. No doubt Tomislav Nikolic read a lot, but he certainly did not read Branko Copic. If he had read Branko Copic, he would have found there in one place where he said, "Hand, worst religion, what you needed is a feather." Now I'm ordering Tomislav Nikolic -- why didn't you listen to Branko, what did you need a party for?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3001	The word is Mr. Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3002	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I've reported to you under Article 104, but since there's no former present in the O.R., then I'm calling for members of 225 and 226 because I don't want to talk in the absence of an ex. We, in effect, have asked the MPs of the SRS, Madam Chairman, for a few explanations from you on Thursday and Friday, but we did not get them. Not only have you allowed a certain group of citizens to sit in this room, but you know well that in the SRS elections they won 78 seats and that they belong to two vice-presidential seats. Now you allow a citizen to sit in a chair at the post of vice president. I'm afraid your hard work doesn't cause an even bigger problem, so you'll have to intervene. Namely, all these events in our party are the result of a general condition in our society. Immoral, fraud, law-abiding are legalized through a false democracy that has no end. All of these negativity, which is the worst, is being realized right here in the Assembly Hall and committees. There is a precedent that has not been recorded in any country, or even in those countries where democracy has not arrived as a word, let alone as a phenomenon. The party that did not participate in the elections is set to become a parliamentary party. This isn't an SRS problem, this is a problem you can't count on in Europe. Do you expect Europe to see you in this assembly of parliament, with a party created within parliament? A country that works like that has nothing to look for in Europe. We want a consensus on Kosovo. You have it, we are all in favour of Kosovo being an integral part of Serbia, except for exceptions that are not significant. Is that how we behave and what kind of message we send to the world, to the United Nations and to the International Court? We simply advise them before their decision that we are a state where basic principles of democracy and rights are not respected, and we allow the party outside the parliamentary elections or after them to become parliamentary. Is that how we expect someone to protect us? (President: You've exceeded time for 20 seconds. I'll get back to you. I hope Mr. Ex will be in the O.R., and then I can advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3003	The truth is, I'm under the impression that you've strayed from the subject and I'd ask everyone who advertises the Rules of Procedure not to abuse it. Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3004	Mrs. Djukic, you know I'm not moving away from the topic and of course I'm calling on article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In all these points, it is written that you are the most responsible for what is called elemental order, normal and legal work of the National Assembly. And you can't avoid this topic, just before you're stronger and for a few experiences. And when you got a coalition partner in the DS, then you strengthened your experience, because while DS cheered and dressed in the National Assembly then there were 270 and 317 MPs and for the sake of the public of Serbia, I must remind everyone in this country that it is clear when Bosko Ristic applauds something or when it defends Mrs. Komic. She did not defend anything, and everything Bosko Ristic applauded was bad for Serbia. There are so many arguments here, but there is not just one argument, there is no argument that justifies the existing situation in the National Assembly. It can't be justified by anything, by the Constitution, by law, by the Rules of Procedure, by any experience, and I guess we should call upon it sometime. Don't point us on the right path, we know which way it is. Mrs. Djukic, you understand that the seat of the chairman of the Management Board belongs to the SRS. It is the first step you must take in agreement with Boris Tadic. I have reason to mention Boris Tadic, because when you interrupt the session, you go to him for consultations, then later on we find out from the media that it's kidnapping. It's the first step you need to show that you want to respect the Constitution and the law, and then the other steps are logical and legal. Finally, dissatisfaction can be addressed to the Constitutional Court, not the SRS, and that is where you talk about the legal path.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3005	Mr. Krasic, what are you talking about Mr. President Tadic? I've been referencing you to formal legal procedures all along, although I know you know exactly what the path is to go if you really want to solve the problem. It is obvious that you do not want it, and it is obvious that you want to block the work of this assembly and you are doing it here for the day and the citizens of Serbia see it and, of course, we MPs feel it very much. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3006	Madam Chairman, you've made a mistake again. I hope you don't mind me saying that. I've explained very nicely to you what time it is. That path depends on you and Tadic. That path depends on you knowing that the position of the chairman of the Administrative Board belongs to the SRS and you all know it well. Where it says, read, find, and tell where it doesn't say. You're okay with this situation. (President: Please allow Mr Krasic to speak. You don't have to. I'm used to these things. So, you get the president of the SRS Management Board back, and then we can talk more about the legal path. Everyone knows it's the only legal way. As for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, don't worry about the rating of the SRS. Citizens in Serbia know very well what is cooked in that kitchen by Boris Tadic and how the SPS will pressure you and how the G17 will condition and how LDP will hold it eventually, counting that when it does damage to the SRS, two things will end. His media, Gilas and the company, his national security. Otherwise, Mrs Djukic, if you do not know that to inform you, on September 8th and 9th, a meeting was held at Mr Tadic's where the decision was made to go against the SRS by all means, to make all authorities available to the UN Prosecutor's Office to end the story as soon as possible. I warn you that today you are all witnesses to the elimination and liquidation of Vojislav Seselj. What is the legal path to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That's not what you're thinking. You've found one group of people who'll be making a penitent church very soon, because the poor are not aware of what one citizen dragged them into, who made it clear to everyone - you've all resigned me, I haven't signed anyone. He just showed here that his term was in his pocket. It's just proof that he's in someone's body.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3007	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dobrislav Prelic answered, but he is not here. According to Article 93, I give my word to Mr Milan Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the choice of Deputy Protectors of the Citizens of the Province, the fact that Mr. Jankovic has arrived at this session again, to hear a few things that are important to the citizens of Serbia, even for us Members of the People. According to you, there has been an ombudsman in many countries for many years and a long time, and in Serbia, it may be one of the reasons why we are not already in Europe, because we did not have protectionists of citizens and other pro-European laws that you want to impose afterwards, to enter Europe tomorrow. We, as an old civilized European nation, think we should enter Europe, but decently, raised heads, not humiliated, as whole as Serbia and all Serbian countries. This is the goal of the SRS, which is why we have been fighting for 18 years, and we want our neighbours, Europeans, to say that we are not the target of adjudication and that they will not be able to achieve their goals through Serbia and the Serbs, those goals that they have through history, which have shown by the latest bombing of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. With the public defenders, I think he took an oath on June 23rd, and I haven't seen any changes since then, personally, as a citizen and as a MP. For a month now, the SRS has been kidnapped for 18 or 20 terms, so our public defender hasn't called, and he should have. In our country and in the presence of all the state authorities and this light coalition, as they call you, is the kidnapping of people, so our Serbian hero, Dr Radovan Karadzic, has been kidnapped, taken away somewhere some nights, days, tortured, there is everything exhausted from him, his documentation and laptop has been kidnapped, and there is our protector of the citizens who did not answer, found no such thing appropriate, although all this is happening in the eyes of all citizens, that I do not speak to the authorities and all security services. Unfortunately, I'm going to show Mr. Jankovic, another case of kidnapping and kidnapping of Alexander Isailovic, can you take a picture of this, which happened just ten days ago, which was published by the press, most of the daily papers. He also published "Kurir", not to say that we have no data on September 25th 2008, the title "Head Hunters", where Mr. Aleksandar Isailovic, 59, was abducted by bounty hunters thinking he was General Mladic. He remembered that he was trapped in a house in the Fox River and that an unknown doctor helped him when he got sick, his relatives claim. In the presence of our protector and these future deputies, it may happen that every citizen, especially to us MPs, is not certain that someone will not wait for us at some bus stop, at some turnabout and with a bag on his head, unknown faces to take somewhere in a dungeon, hold for a few days and let go after certain torture and that man, and also to hurt himself, not to mention his mental suffering and everything that a man survives there. That, Mr. Jankovic, is happening on the obvious of these yellows who boast they're big Democrats, and I'm talking to you and telling you, don't be thirsty from the yellow ones. You need to be independent and answer such serious questions, and not just you, but everyone, especially the representatives of the government. This is a sign that our country is being conducted by various world agents, who know what all the white-world bandits, who want more and more Serb people to scare, want to get their hands on some of their mentors in the West, the Vatican, and who knows who they are, Soroshu, so they can't achieve their goals. Their main goal is to break the SRS, as it is the only headquarters and representative of the ideology of Serbian nationalism in the area of Europe and the Balkans. Unfortunately, they do so through individuals, but I am convinced and I believe that Serbian radicals will endure this. We had more trouble and trouble and with red, and with yellow, and with black and green, but we came out as winners. This is about some suggestions for your deputies and representatives of the SRS, Mr Krasic and others, and they spoke personally and here in the data it is seen that those you have proposed not only have a conflict with the law of interest, but they have problems, which is what anyone deals with. You said in your speech - well, NGOs are not evil. If I were to choose now as a man, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, between you and Natasha Kandic, normally I would choose you sooner. That is why I believe that the representatives of NGOs represented by Natasa Kandic, I do not know what can happen, what only the flood can cast out, I do not believe that the Serbian mother can give birth, and some, not to mention them, it is evil for the state of Serbia and she is a direct participant in breaking Serbia's state, she is doing it permanently. (President: I would ask you to take care of the vocabulary and the terms you use. I hear you very little. When you speak to us, please just make it harder. If we continue to allow NGOs to mix with the state of Serbia, to create politics and give them space, we will naturally disappear as a people and as Serbs, without saying what we leave for our generations. This Natasa Kandic, when no newspaper is written about it, no one mentions it, challenges citizens to fight them, challenges citizens to fight to keep them from hearing America, to Soros, and to achieve their monthly incomes. In any case, she loses her job, loses the status of what she's paid for by foreign services. We'll work today and tomorrow. It is that tomorrow it is Bajram and we should not be working tomorrow because of your coalition partners. For example, in Novi Pazar, I would never schedule a city assembly tomorrow, but since you have a coalition of greens, you should celebrate tomorrow, too, because these are your coalition partners. We can do it tomorrow, and we can do it on Bajram. That's why we're here. The citizens need to be informed of everything. We have the Law on the Protection of Citizens and there are certain provisions that directly oblige us to know what it is that the Ombudsman, or the Protector of Citizens, should do to prevent some illegalities and injustices, and in particular the violation of human rights. We Serbian radicals have been known to respect our citizens, regardless of nation, religion, belonging to a political party. We have shown that in our ranks we have representatives of national minorities, we have shown that we are much greater Democrats than you who boast of democracy. From this Law on the Protector of Citizens, we see that the Protector of Citizens has the right to give initiatives, has the right to control the work of certain bodies, services, etc. I guess he's the only one who doesn't have the right Parliament and the president of the state. I can see there's no mention of the president of the state, and that's the face that creates politics, not to say from the shadows, but he interferes in this Parliament's work as well. He interferes with the work of everything and everything, so it would be good if you could raise yourself to the level that you can also control the work of Serbian President Boris Tadic's cabinets and his work, because there would be the most fun we would have with criminal activities and illegal actions going on in the state of Serbia. It's said there in one place, you know, Deputy Protectors of Citizens should have high moral and professional qualities. I don't know what criteria this can be set and it's not listed and it's not explained which measures can determine who's professional, who's moral and who's not. Furthermore, it is important to mention that the protection of citizens initiates proceedings on the complaints of citizens or on their own initiative. You have the right, if you don't like someone or maybe speak against the authorities or against some political organisation, to give yourself an initiative, which can be interpreted in a very ambiguous manner. In the end, I would like to say that I do not know how much Serbian citizens will get through this election and the deputy and protectors of citizens, but from what we have seen in recent months, since you have been appointed as protectors of citizens, we have experienced heavy and great injustices that I have previously counted. I particularly stress that in the state of Serbia we should all join together and prevent the kidnapping of people. No one in Serbia must be kidnapped with a bag on his head. It is the last act, a non-civilization act which, unfortunately, takes place in front of all of us, and especially in front of this authority and you, Mr. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3009	The Rules of Procedure were advertised by Mr Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3010	Of course, I refer to two members of the Rules of Procedure, 225, 226. I would also like to inform the public, and also here as a public defender, it would be much preferable for you to avoid the word ombudsman in your public appearances, because there is no foothold in our law, but rather a word is a protector of citizens. Mr. Jankovic, may I warn you that there is a Law on the Protector of Citizens and Article 23, so I would ask you to consider reading that article. He says this: "The President of the Republic, President and members of the Government, President of the Assembly, President of the Constitutional Court and officials in the authorities of the administration are obliged to accept the protection of citizens, at his request, within 15 days at the latest." Mr. Jankovic, I think you have an obligation to search all these organs for reception and have a conversation with them. I think you can also take what's happening in the National Assembly as a topic of conversation, that we have citizens here who are neither political party nor electoral list, are not even NGOs, but might say citizens who don't pay a TV subscription, so they use a familiarity with the president of the Assembly to be present in the hall and to attend a session of the National Assembly. You'd have to talk to the authorities on this subject. You are authorized and I must draw your attention to that. I must remind you that you are authorized to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court. Why am I telling you all this? Because it is quite evident that there are likely to be both radical and criminal and bad laws, as we also have the fact that both relatively tolerable and good laws are not applied in practice. I could now state these laws: access to information, including your law, and also the law on the state-level audit institution. It's just that the government has blocked you. Why did she block you? So the public doesn't know that you've found out that it's working the opposite of the Constitution and the law. I think you can discuss this topic, a team before I know that you also know about the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, a team before I know that you are well aware of parliamentary practice, let's say, states that are in the EU. This kind of thing wouldn't happen in any of those states. Just to remind you, you're running towards it there and you're proving in this way that you're not meeting the basic conditions. To support you in this, the American ambassador, the English ambassador, and who knows who else, is no guarantee that what you're doing is right. I don't want to overstep this time, but Mr. Jankovic, I think you have a lot of ground to cut down on the job of the constitutionality and legality assessor...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3011	You've been out of line for a while. I give my word to the MP, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, on the list of those reported for the word on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3012	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this institution of civil defenders, despite the preparatory phase that lasted, Mr Jankovic, about five years, since the coming DOS to power after 5 October to your election, is not so unfortunately known to the MPs, let alone the citizens. Namely, the Law on Local Self-Government, the one that was brought in three years ago, was for the first time actually incorporating the protection of citizens. Kragujevac is a city where I live, where I am president of the SRS parliamentary group. We are the only and very harsh opposition to the ruling set, headed by the current mayor. But we, when the elected public defender in the town of Kragujevac, did not have any objection on the stand proposed, to a certain Mrs Vujanic, who also performs in the second term already in the second term, but in the way she was treated and how she had difficulty organising the service for her work. It's the same case with you. This slightly later in Kragujevac improved, and this shows that local self-government authorities, and you see only the republican level of government, do not have a real attitude towards your function and towards the Ombudsman institute, as some say, and we say the citizens' protector. It is simply one of the conditions that came from the recommendations, primarily the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, stemmed from many other international documents. When the Constitution was changed and we constitutionally categorized what a protection of citizens was, I don't think even then people took seriously that it was an institution that would be fully independent, in accordance with the law, able to work, freed from political influences and powers, above all Boris Tadic and the current authorities. That this is what many objections, the representations of citizens, both Kragujevac and Serbian citizens, say at your address, and now I will tell you in the legalisation process, as it is popularly said, of lawlessly raised objects. Two-thirds of Serbia has actually come into existence and people have been making settlements, some of them have come under a symmetry method, some people have done it out of the inability to catch a step with changes to laws that are very restrictive for ordinary citizens, and very obviously convenient for the construction mafia. So today I can make a summary, and here comes from what the main complaints and objections to which the Kragujean city ombudsman reacts. These are disbursed citizens from the area of construction, property relations and from the area of social protection and children's rights. You'll probably agree with me that these are the biggest problems, and health care. So these are the broadest spectrum of problems in our society. It's an individual, man. Someone's gonna say, you know, when I get back to Kragujevac and any village in Shumadia, everyone's gonna say, so there's a high-level policy going on, but I'm here at risk because some clerk, the mayor of the city, the municipal administration, is harassing me and I can't exercise my rights. It's really like that. But in order not to put everything on your weak shoulders that have not strengthened your authorities and Boris Tadic himself, I must say what is causing all these problems: precisely all these disastrous laws that, as well as systematically, have been passed over the past seven years. If we talk about the Law on Planning and Construction, you'll agree, that some man, some family in downtown Belgrade, in the center of Kragujevac, any city in Serbia that has an old wasteful house, an inheritance, may once have been wealthy citizens, and before World War II and after that, they don't now, these are people who don't belong to this category of tycoonisation, kidnapping and robbery, opportunities to exercise their rights. They will be told that because of the great corruption that exists in the construction sector, as we have seen in the latest examples in the city of Belgrade, and those famous stories of several thousand housing squares that are owed to the citizens of Belgrade in Karaburma, Čukarička padina, or where all that phantom firm was supposed to make these apartments, and it is not, that we come to an ordinary man not being protected at all, because next to that house he will not wake up to sell for one, two apartments, one apartment, because they usually judge that way. In the end, you can see that in some series and domestic productions from these countries in the environment, they're making stories like that. Why are people being blackmailed? Because there is no one to help them, the state is not behind them, they are deprived of every right, of freedom to decide for themselves how and what to do. That's one aspect. Others I would especially point out today are social security and child care and single mothers. I think that these days and rightly raises the issue of single mothers and single fathers, because in the past session of the Serbian Parliament, we had examples of fathers taking care of their own children, not just mothers, coming forward. So these are the biggest problems in society today. Even when we consider the fact that 800,000 of our youngsters are malnourished and that the Financial Support Act has many gaps with their children. Young couples, because in Serbia today the biggest problem is the first child, of course, and the second and third problem, but first, because of the fact that the state is insufficiently stimulating these young couples. Here's why. I'm trying to connect it somehow, and I see that you approve, and you know that it's true, only in that chain of a normal life function, what a normal Serbian average family should have: that it has a roof over its head, that people have a job, that they can normally live from their work, that they can school their children and that we don't have a situation that we unfortunately have, are also citizens' objections, to the work of childcare institutions, I mean preschool age, and social work centres in almost every city in Serbia, where it's suitable for manipulation. Especially when it comes to helping members of certain national communities, such as the Roma population. I am sorry that today, but it is not justified for my colleague, Jovan Damjanovic, to speak exactly how Roma are treated by local self-government authorities and local self-government administrations when it comes to the exercise of their rights. Therefore, Mr. Jankovic, the only thing I can tell you as a Serbian radical and our parliamentary group is that you are really starting to do your job seriously and use the rights that you have originally under the law. If this is just some of your examples, I don't have time for colleagues, here I am finishing my colleague Radet, a colleague who's going to talk, you can talk about this for days, about all categories of people who are trying to exercise their rights, then it's best to Article 18. You finally take the law into your own hands and that you, as the guardian of the citizens, do not wait for this incompetent tycoon government, appear before the National Assembly and initiate amendments and additions to the law on construction, on social protection, on the financing of families with children, the Law on Labour, the Law on PIO, and ultimately show that you are ready to show that all that you sublime as a republican patron of citizens you want to translate into new forms and thus help an ordinary man. The easiest thing to do is to throw away and spread such promises, especially those that now have a new way of working through political sects and cults that are approved in the Assembly through the theft of the SRS parliamentary mandates. They act as a sect, they promise, we will go ahead, here, there, and never, nor are those who lead them, that guru of them, themselves ready to save the fate of ordinary people. When a case like that comes to you by an unhappy man, one single mother of a family, here's Natasha, here's Lydia, here's your Veronica, uh, he sometimes doesn't even remember the name, like he can't remember what one MP's name is this morning. When Prelic is to be caught signing for that parliamentary club, then a lasso is tossed and the MPs of the SRS are caught. What doesn't know their names, it doesn't matter. We're not that kind of people. We are honest people, above all high morals and fairer taught by our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and when he referred us to our free will to deal with politics, to earn a place on the list of SRS, to send our municipal, county committees and party bodies to the National Assembly, then we must take care of every citizen of Serbia no matter what religion, which nations were, because it is probably the work of the MPs, not that within the tycoons, and above all with Boris Tadic, we steal and don't let God rob, as some do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3013	I give my word to Parliamentarian Dejan Mirovic, from the list of declared by word at this point. Next up is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3014	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 138. The constitution states that the protection of citizens is an independent state body that protects citizens' rights. In the 2005 Law on the Protector of Citizens, Article 1 states - that the protecter of citizens takes care of the protection and promotion of human freedoms and rights. Also, on the website of the Republic Protector, citizens are said to be citizens of human freedoms, and the obligation of the state is that these rights, established by the constitutions and laws, do not violate them, but that they are respected and promoted. The site also points out that the citizens' protector in his work is relying on the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of 1966. So these are general frameworks for the functioning of the protector and his deputies. According to the website data, the protector should have more deputies. This division of work is in line with the 2005 Law. Article 6 of the law states that the civil protection officer should have four deputies, who assist him in the law-set transactions, under the powers he confers on them. It is then stated that the need to determine the specialisation of deputy jobs, in particular in terms of - 1) the protection of the rights of persons deprived of freedom; 2) gender equality; 3) the rights of the child; 4) the rights of national minorities. Therefore, the protection of persons deprived of liberty is listed first. In this context, Article 22 further discusses the area and states that the protection of citizens has the right to have uninterrupted access to sanctions institutions and other places where the persons deprived of liberty are located. I repeat - and elsewhere where faces are deprived of freedom. In accordance with that provision and according to the division of work published on the site, one of the Deputy Protectors of Citizens should, above all, be engaged in the rights of persons deprived of liberty. When we add to these provisions a number of provisions from our constitution from Articles 18 to 81, which guarantee human and minority rights and freedoms, as well as a solution from the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, it is clear that the protection of citizens and its associates have made several mistakes. In that context, ladies and gentlemen, when you vote on the Deputy Protector of the Citizens, you should bear in mind the following facts. At a time when police brutally disperse demonstrations, where they even kill an innocent man, during a period when people, former senior political officials, as Mr. Karadzic, are being kidnapped in the middle of Belgrade, have been kidnapped and held at unknown locations for several days, the public defender and his associates have dealt with the following topics -- I will quote on statements from the already mentioned site -- a statement on the reduction of traffic in police stations; the promotion of the site of representatives, a statement on the schedule of official cars, a statement on the meeting with the minister of justice, a statement on the change of the address of the public defender's office, and a statement issued earlier on May 1st. Of course none of these topics are controversial, but in a country where people are killed and kidnapped, and that's essentially because of their anti-globalistic beliefs, there were more important topics for someone who has a duty to warn about human rights violations. The protector and his associates were obliged to deal with these topics both because of international conventions and the human rights treaty they are currently calling upon. As for the kidnapping of Mr Karadzic, they could have called for the position of the UN Human Rights Committee on the Lopez Burgas case against Uruguay. In that case, in line with the facts showing that a Uruguayan union leader was kidnapped by Uruguayan and Argentinean security and paramilitary forces and held in secret custody for about two weeks in Argentina and then secretly transferred to Uruguay, the Committee concluded that the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, in particular Article 7, Article 14 and Article 22, was violated. Therefore, the public defender and his associates have no justification for their silence over the kidnapping and denial of fundamental human rights. They were obliged to report for this serious violation of human rights. In particular, they were obliged to react, as in Article 24. The 2005 law states that the civil protection officer can initiate the procedure by his own initiative, and that the civil protection officer has the right to act preventively to improve the protection of human freedoms and rights. Of course, as soon as the debate on the work of the UN tribunal is launched, the phrase is that it is an unfair court, but that we must respect its dictatorships, human rights violations, blackmails and double standards, because it is allegedly our international obligation. But no alleged international obligation can be more important than human rights. Human rights are not selective, they are equally applicable to all peoples and to all people, regardless of their political beliefs or media satanization. Also, if the UN tribunal is any obstacle to human rights violations, then it should be made clear - between the alleged international obligation and the preservation of human rights should always be chosen to preserve human rights. After all, the world’s largest principle is that of the United States. That the UN tribunal is harshly violating human rights has no doubt. For example, the attempt to impose lawyers on Dr Vojislav Seselj is contrary to the views of the UN Human Rights Committee. In the case of Michael and Brian Hill v. Spain, the Committee has concluded that Michael Hill's right to defend himself is not respected, contrary to Article 14. The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. So our civil protection officer and his deputies shouldn't avoid serious issues just because it's not politically correct at the moment. Their primary goal should be to protect human rights. Finally, when it comes to voting on the Deputy Protector of Citizens, it should be borne in mind that the Deputy Protector of Citizens should possess high professional and moral qualities and that he cannot represent a political position. These are the formulations set out in Articles 6 and 8. The 2005 law. The same conditions were sought when the chosen patron of the citizens was chosen. Meanwhile, circumstances have changed. Most Western states have admitted so-called. the state of Kosovo. Today, these countries abuse almost all international forums and organisations for the sake of their political goals. The criteria for setting up this function should therefore be considered in a different or more realistic way when voting on the protector. For example, work in the OSCE can no longer be assessed unconditionally as a recommendation that cannot be questioned when setting this function. An example of the unilateral appointment of the new head of the OSCE Mission in Kosovo, which was appointed in such a way as to be criticised even by the Russian Foreign Ministry, is sufficiently instructive when considering relations and personnel in this organisation. Therefore, with additional attention and in accordance with the emerging circumstances, it is necessary to vote not only in this case, but also in relation to other significant functions in which human rights are in the works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3015	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3016	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I have no intention of speaking to MPs on this occasion, nor is it my goal for MPs in this room to hear me, as many do not want to hear, many are already bored with what we are talking about, and it is very important and very important that the citizens of Serbia hear and understand what it is already about. In the last week, I've often been stopped on the street and asked, so what's going on, who stole the mandates, how they stole it, how they should get back, I felt the need to maybe this would be the best way to explain to them what happened and how a group of people, 20 of them separated from the SRS, and now they're simply trying to advocate something that should represent advanced Serbia, everything that isn't the SRS and everything they were until yesterday. Dear Serbian citizens, this blue book, with something a little red, is called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legal act, is being violated. So, in parliament, where MPs sit, what you can watch every day is violated by Article 102 of Title 2, which is stealing the mandate. In particular, before I explain to you how the mandates of the SRS were stolen, I must say that since Dusan's time, Emperor Dusan, 1349, when Dusan's code was passed, which was completed in 1354, Emperor Dusan had the need to regulate to a certain extent, organized power in the state and the status of his subjects. So since then, there has been some legal act that should regulate the situation in society without speaking during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, when I quote, the constitutional history of Serbia is the history of a small one, but freedom of a committed country and of a free and above all democratically-determined people. We've come to the words of democracy. Democracy is nowhere to be found, at least for now, and at least in this problem faced by the SRS. Namely, the mandates stolen from the SRS are not the mandates of the individual people who now make up, conditionally speaking, this parliament, the twenty. Neither the political party was formed, nor the group of people participated in the elections, so let's say they earned those mandates. It is a group of people who separated from the SRS, to whom the SRS assigned mandates, and according to the current constitution and the law that parliament adopted, could make their mandates available to the party, as has been done. That's how the blank resignations were created. A member of that group said he lost those blank resignations. I must warn you it's a crime. (President: 30 seconds) I'm sorry, just to finish my thought. Tomorrow, we will have a situation in parliament for the same member of that group to talk about crime and corruption, and the first one to commit a criminal act. Citizens of Serbia, the SRS do not obstruct the work (President: You have no more words. He's just asking to get back what was stolen from her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3017	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3018	Madam President-in-Office, you are constantly in violation of this Rules of Procedure. Because of you, at the beginning, I will say which member, otherwise if Mrs. Komic were there, I would have to say that in the end, because that is how the Rules of Procedure is applied, depending on the quality of the hockey change in the composition of the chairman. It's those flying substitutes, now you see it, now you don't see it. Here, and the citizens came in here, sitting still. Don't worry, I've given an idea to the press to visit Bajcetin, since that's where the church of penitentiary was headed, with your money, so you know. That's not why I answered. You systematically violate the Rules of Procedure. However, what you are demonstrating today is causing great damage to the Republic of Serbia. Tomorrow is the day of the United Nations. The United Nations isn't working. Celebrate. An integral part of that celebration is the affirmation of the struggle for human rights that took place under the auspices of the United Nations. It is probably an integral part of this celebration and what is the fundamental role of the United Nations, which is to provide peace, progress and prosperity to mankind. I'm not going to talk about whether the United Nations has fulfilled their role, as they have fulfilled it, as they now stand. I don't want to talk about how much the United States treats the United Nations, and you know about the International Court of Justice after the Nicaragua case that they don't even want to hear about that court. But if you already affirm something as a struggle for human rights, as a democratic liquid, today you have had the last chance to manifest that loyalty to democracy and human rights. You could simply thank these citizens who are patiently here in the O.R. to pay their television subscription, to go home and watch the broadcast because they don't belong here. How about one of them comes out and talks about human rights, democracy? Please, there's no argument that they're still sitting in this room. As for the evidence of the fulfillment of the conditions to be elsewhere, and not in this room, there's a million such evidence. The evidence is also found in the National Assembly. The evidence is also the knowledge that exists with individual MPs. I know, Mrs. Djukic, that you're uncomfortable with me answering. I'm not comfortable getting back to you either. I'd like to talk to you about something else right now. We're taking the opportunity to talk about the protection of the citizens and about the deputies of the citizens' protectors. Simply, this reluctance over the National Assembly and this unconstitutional move by Boris Tadic cannot be justified by anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3019	The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in its report on the state of human rights last year, the civil rights protector is not concerned with the protection of human rights in Kosovo and Metohija, where these human rights are most endangered. The public defender was elected about 10 months ago. Now I will remind you of what has happened in Kosovo and Metohija in the past 10 months when human rights violations are at stake. More than 20 cases of burning of Serbian houses have been recorded. Several dozen armed attacks on Serbs by firing, dropping bombs and burning cars. A dozen physical attacks. Several massive proportions in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have been deprived of the right to choose their own local government. Serbs were deprived of the right to earn profits from privatising enterprises they have worked in for decades. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija cannot process their properties, their fields, except in the center of the enclaves they live in. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not have the right to work. Serbian children in most places in Kosovo and Metohija go to schools accompanied by NATO Pact tanks and transporters. The rocking of buses and cars moving Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is a regular phenomenon. In short, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija live in modern camps. There is absolutely no word in the report on human rights violations last year in the state of Serbia. On this basis, only one conclusion can be drawn, that the protection of citizens indirectly, knowingly or unconsciously, acknowledges that Kosovo and Metohija are not part of Serbia. You know, when a human rights defender in one country is making a report on human rights violations in that country, not covering a part of the territory, then it can be concluded that he does not consider that part of the territory an integral part of that state. In addition to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the citizens' protector in his report ignored human rights violations of several other categories of population. There are no words in this report on 400,000 Serbian citizens who, according to official statistics, live below the poverty line. There is no point in violating the human rights of Vojislav Seselj and other Hague indictees of Serbian nationality. There are no words about human rights violations of several dozen Serbs, Serbian citizens originating in Croatia, who were arrested on their way to Republika Srpska's Krajina, in their homes. There is no word on human rights violations Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic and Goran Hadzic, which the media in Serbia, as well as top Serbian state officials, have been calling for several years the greatest war criminals. Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic have been indicted by The Hague, however, there is no judicial verdict that has been accused of committing any war crimes. So, as long as there's no such thing as a judicial verdict to call people war criminals a serious crime. The next thing the human rights defender should be declared is the fact that Serbs expelled from Kosovo and Metohija for eight years have not had the right to vote and to elect representatives of authorities in local communities where they live. On the other hand, this report is full of details of the fictional and actual examples of human rights violations. He deals very closely with human rights violations of members of national minorities. Otherwise, the practice, which has been in existence for ten years in Serbia, continues to mean that national minorities in Serbia are at risk. I live in the belief that respect for the rights of national minorities Serbia is safe among the leading countries in Europe. The report deals in detail with human rights of murderers and criminals in prisons, then homosexuals and other perverse personalities. "Many public figures are freely used in public appearances through hate speech and discrimination against the homosexual population, and existing laws and institutions that apply them do not provide adequate protection from this verbal form of homophobic violence and discrimination." "The activists and human rights activists have in contact with the Protector presented arguments that lesbians, gay persons, bisexuals and transgenders are particularly exposed to hate crimes in Serbia and that there is a special need for different measures to respond to such a situation." According to this report in Kosovo and Metohija, where Serbs are persecuting and killing, there are no hate crimes, but poor homosexuals and lesbians suffered terribly, simply to make a man sad. I wonder if anyone in this assembly and in Serbia at all has heard of a crime of hatred committed against members of the gay population, lesbians and that category of society. The report also deals in detail with human rights violations of non-governmental organisations working to break up Serbia and is particularly potent and isolated from political parties and individuals who publicly advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence. You know, in one country people are openly pushing for the destruction and occupation of this country, for the separation of a part of the country's territory, and imagine instead of being touched, approved, people rebuked and sent threatening messages. What I see in this report and this proposal is the fact that all four deputy citizens' protectors were born in Belgrade. I really cannot believe that in a part that does not belong to Belgrade, there are no people who could be quality and adequate in dealing with this problem. We have been accused of obstructing these days because we prevent important decisions, among other things, from making decisions on the choice of deputy citizens' protectors. This gives the impression that the ruling coalition in Serbia holds much to human rights, holds much to the citizens' protection institutions and holds much to the functioning of the civil protection service. I'm only going to list three facts in this report that are quite the opposite. "Despite the legal provision under which the Assembly will elect deputy civil protection officers within two months of the day of submission of the proposal, the National Assembly has not decided on the proposal until the end of the reporting period, nor on the day of submission of the report. The Ombudsman addressed all MPs by letter of 18 December 2007 and pointed out the need for the election of ombudsman deputies to create conditions for the implementation of the law of the established work of the institutions and the law of the set deadline. 'Unfortunately, until the day this report was filed, this address had no effect. Since the report's been filed for several months, however, this issue is on the agenda today and I'm asking a question -- if we've been obstructing for the past two days and we've been obstructing today, who's been obstructing the past ten months, so this question hasn't been on the agenda? Next, the Law on the Protector of Citizens predicted that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would align the provisions of the Rules of Procedure with the provisions of the laws within six months of the date of the law's entry into force. The Parliament's rules of procedure should also be governed by the way in which the regular report was submitted, as well as by the special reports of the citizens' protectors. By the end of the reporting period, it wasn't done. I hope this won't be blamed for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3021	Let me just let you know. You have accepted the resignation of Daniel Petrovic as a MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) has occurred. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the mandate ended, before the time he was elected, MP Daniel Petrovic, elected from the Election List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3022	Mrs. Djukic, you have violated this particular article 27. In time, I called to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, it refers to exactly what you read. If you'd given me your word, you'd probably have stopped a little bit by reading or shaking your voice, or swallowing the dumpling, but you can see for yourself that the signator of that report by the Administrative Committee is a citizen you're stretching here. You're practically ruining it now. Why? You quickly realized it, finished the job. I do not enter the reasons why this gentleman resigned, etc., but it is immoral to believe that an act of the Administrative Committee on the resignation of the MP is signed by a citizen. Please, it's absolutely immoral. How to get over that fact. I have to inform you, Mrs. Djukic, you're probably worried inside you, eating, not comfortable, but I have to inform you, it's certainly well known to you, there's a regulation that regulates who needs to be given a child when they divorce their spouses, so let's say the child took a husband, and the underage child is either a year and a half, two and the mother keeps going and getting beaten up, the ex-husband beats her, and the family is harassing her, but she manifests love for her child every day, she insists on her child, she looks for her child, she looks for her child and takes him at the end, that's what Jojic lawyer told you. Why? She's allowed even to disrespect the court's decision. That's why we're going to be persistent and looking for our kids in terms of the mandates that someone here demeans and says, "I keep my mandate in my pocket." Whoever's holding it in his pocket is supposed to have some moral right to sign this report. Why weren't you at least a little intelligent and some other board member signed it? But no, you want to defiance, but you're not the mother who's looking for her child, you're just the father who beats the mother. That's why we're gonna keep insisting on this, to get back what's been stolen, because these here are neither the museum in London nor the Vatican museums boasting of stolen goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3023	Mr. Krasic, it looks a little avant-garde-- me father, you mother, mandate child. Mr. Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3024	Dear People's MPs and MPs, I said I would be grateful for any specific suggestion, comment and suggestion. Of course, I don't take orders because the institution of the protection of citizens is independent of the National Assembly. I'm glad you started a series of topics. I'm going to talk about this series of topics, starting with the end. I am pleased that your attention has come to the annual Report of Protectors of Citizens, although I think it was necessary to give him a special session, as it is in all parliaments, or as this house is called, to the National Assembly, it does. But I'm not glad, I understand that you're used to it that way... (President: Please allow Mr Jankovic to address us. )......................................................................................................... But I would really like to say a few words about what is said, for the full and comprehensive information of all of you, including citizens. Of course, human and minority rights in the AP Kosovo, which is part of the Republic of Serbia, are mentioned more than mentioned in the Citizens' Protectors Report. It is explicitly said that in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the province of Kosovo, this level of human and minority rights is below each minimum and that none of this is making a question today. Even in reports from international organisations and organisations of foreign states, it is clear that fundamental human rights and freedoms, including the basic right to freedom of movement, are the right to leave its residence, the right to move freely, that these fundamental rights in Kosovo are not guaranteed, let alone some other exercise of rights. However, the Law on the Protector of Citizens gives me jurisdiction and empowers me to control only the bodies that comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why the Report is very clear, despite such a situation in Kosovo, so the indisputable state of non-compliance with the freedoms and rights of Serbian citizens living in the territory of the AP Kosovo, the protégé of citizens could not exercise its powers in that territory. It's up to you and your other organs to change that situation. It has also been said about what has been the subject of the attention of citizens' protectors in the past period. All of what's listed on the web site and with the help of other sources of information is true. However, whether or not some topics have been accidentally missed. The citizen's protector explicitly announced a public statement on the achievement of the freedom of citizens to a peaceful gathering, precisely for protests and gatherings over the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, where he demanded that the right be respected, but also asked the public order and peace authorities to ensure the safety of all participants of the public meeting. Also, when we talk about easy or less easy topics, the citizen's protector stood up against a normative act that, to the detriment of Serbian citizens, could introduce unconstitutional or illegal control of their communications via the Internet and on an initiative, or a recommendation that is binding, alone there is no legal sanctions, the competent independent institution has put aside the recommendation, it was about the famous conditions for the internet. When we also talk about topics that many people stay away from, the citizen's protector has given amendments to the Security Service's basics law. One of these amendments was accepted by the Defence and Security Committee and it entered into the final text. It is this amendment that allows independent institutions and all other state bodies in the Republic of Serbia to exercise control and control over the work of secret services, which are mentioned here many times today. The Ombudsman also submitted amendments to personal data protection laws. Also another topic that my institution has faced with what is often considered a security sphere, or what many turn to, demanding that effective and effective protection of the rights set up by the Constitution and in situations where national security is weighed on the other hand. I hope you accept those amendments. Also, the public defender also dealt with people with disabilities. It's known to the public, it was also on the web site, I don't know how you didn't notice it, a case where discrimination against a person with disabilities was found, and not even in the authority of the administration, but it was suggested to the public company what to do to correct the situation and it was done. I'm aware that I can't correct all injustices, nor is that possible in this country, but I think what I've been doing, me and my associates, is talking about the impartiality of our work. You were also talking about the rights of the persons deprived of liberty. Over the past period, the citizens' protector has paid ten visits to institutions in which persons are deprived of freedom. Of those ten visits, three were unannounced. Visits have also been made to the institutions in which foreigners reside, waiting for extradition from our country. That area wasn't neglected either. The Vice-President of the Assembly rightly spoke of violations of the rights of citizens in the work of the Centre for Social Labour, care and assistance institutions for children and other institutions dealing with the protection of economic and social rights. I can say that at this point, at least 50 anti-social work centres have been opened, which examines whether the procedures and actions of those centres were correct, not only formally in accordance with the law, but whether they were correct. It was precisely those institutions that were the most non-cooperation with the institution I represent. That is why I asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to introduce in the Civil Service Act a provision that, on a proposal from the citizens' protectors, civil servants, as well as civil servants, would be relieved of their duties if the public defender found that they had wronged the rights of citizens or had shown lack of co-operation. The issue of illegally raised objects is also on the agenda of the institution I represent. I must tell you that in the Republic of Serbia, most of the regulations in this area are adopted locally and that local ombudsmen should, as a rule, play the biggest role at the local level, and the institution of the Republic Protector of citizens should be their support. Unfortunately, out of all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, only 11 have local ombudsmans. I would also like to encourage the establishment of an ombudsman at a local level from this place. In the end, a particular case also mentioned here, the question of kidnapping citizens of Aleksandr Isailovic, is something I learned from newspapers, and thanks to the amendment that I have submitted and which the National Assembly has accepted, I will exercise my right to demand information from the competent services on whether there is an indication that there is someone in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, anyone other than those who are legally entitled to arrest, arrested. On the other hand, I am certainly not going to deal with the issue of arresting Radovan Karadzic for the simple reason, the BIA is legally entitled to arrest citizens. It's not something that's normal and I think it's meant for democratic society. I don't think security services should have the right to arrest, but that's what you're going to have to say when the law is passed that regulates the work of the BIA and other security services in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3025	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word. The SRS has 20 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Jankovic, in 2005, we brought, however, this law on the protection of citizens as part of those laws that were a condition for us to get closer to the EU, and we introduced this institute into our legal system. The law is perfectly clear, giving you the right to choose four deputies, but I believe you don't ask very much who your deputies will be. I wish that were the case, because I don't think you'd make this mistake if you'd made your own decisions. Now I'm going to tell you why and how you fell into that contradiction. The law states that the work of the Civil Protection Officer is conducted by the Secretary-General, who must be a person with a completed law school, at least five years of working experience, that's something that is meant, so I don't understand how someone who's going to change you, and where it's meant to have that training, at least that he's finished law school, doesn't have to have a judicial exam, not to be a magistrate, not a science doctor, you don't ask your deputies. And how is it that those you control, say, the mayor of a municipality, must be a graduate lawyer, that he has five years of work experience, and some politician comes to control him? So you've fallen into one trap and contradiction, but I don't argue that you need people of this profile, but not as deputies, but possibly as advisors. You're the one who got them wrong. Besides these deputies, who would have to have this education, in our opinion, that you could function, because when you're not able, someone has to replace you, and that someone has to be at least the same as you, not because we said he's called a deputy, but because he meets all the conditions that you meet, and besides, you have four, five, ten advisors, as much as you already think you need for different areas of life. I'll start with the law, because it was one of our objections when the law was passed. It was not clear to me, as a People's MP, and I think the MP group has reacted as well, if you are looking out for the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms, whether you are only doing so in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or are making sure that these human rights are protected wherever the Serbian citizen is. We had, not only to mention The Hague, but I mean The Hague, but here's the case of this guy who had a fight in America, so they asked for his delivery. It's still in progress. Do you interfere in general or do you stay out of it? It is also disputed for me, and that is where we intervened, with the conditions that the Guardian of Citizens should have, and not only for the protectors of citizens but for all those who perform a public function, we provided that, before you and your deputies enter into office, you will take an oath, which reads: "I swear to do my duty responsibly, impartially and independently, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and that I will safely work on the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms." That means you put your hand on the Constitution and you swore an oath. But we always suggested that there be that: how I did so God helped me, continuing that oath. But I can see that's not helping either, because some of us here swore respect for both the ideologies and the party's programs, so they failed. When we predict, as in Article 5, that some officials have to possess high moral and professional qualities, I really advise you to have a large reserve here, because I don't think there's any more corrupt goods than man today. First a man breaks down and doesn't have to stand in the warm, just a little euro or a little more, each one has a price, puts it in his pocket. That's the resignation that's held in your pocket, that's some money, and then your people break down. So, for the sake of you, we taught by your experience, I suggest you don't have complete confidence in anyone, or in your associates, always have some reserve and keep everything to yourself, don't give anyone anything. I'm just about to look at the law myself. Article 16 is now in favour of this fact that I wanted to warn you at the beginning, that in the event of the end of the post of protection of citizens, until the election of a new protector of citizens, this function is carried out by a deputy appointed by the protector of the citizens to replace him in the event of his absence or to prevent him from performing his post. So, at that point, he must at least be the same as you and meet all these conditions. If you do not meet, you will be free of all these deputies, you will not have a deputy who will adequately replace you, if you do not change this Article 16. I wanted to ask you to open your eyes and ears wide, and follow this discussion of ours and all that we point to, because I believe you will also be able to respond to these mandates from the list of SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj, in view of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, concerning electoral law. In the third position of Article 52. The constitution says: "The electoral right enjoys legal protection, in accordance with the law." If we fail to protect this electoral right of citizens, because it is general and equal for all, we know that the elections, or so we should say they are, free and direct, the vote is secret and personal, but no one has the right to end the electoral will. There's already a place for you to react. I'm also asking you what you've done, was there any place to react to the protection of the secrecy of letters and other means of disclosure regarding some transcripts that appeared ten days ago in our press, since that law was protected by the Constitution? Let me warn you of article 21. The Constitution. It's a ban on discrimination. Therefore, any discrimination is prohibited, either directly or indirectly, so it is stated on the basis of what, among other things, political or other beliefs. So, there can't be anything for someone because he's a representative of G17 plus or some other political party, and if he's a member of the political party of the SRS, which is not in the mercy of the ruling regime, then that rule or those principles don't apply to him. I'm going back to what someone's trying to reverse the election will of citizens, but since it goes by the authorities, by the one who, above all, judges, should at least make sure that those who sue take care that those rights are protected. Citizens, therefore, after this institute has been created by this law, expect there to be someone they can eventually turn to again to protect them. So I suggest, once again, that you take not all of our discussion as some political bickering, but as something that can one day really come into the sphere of your competence, and then you will have to, of course, defend your authority and act adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3027	The SRS has ten minutes left. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, Radisa Ilic's MP, and then Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226. This announcement has something to do with the agenda, which you usually insist on, although I don't know why. Since certain data have been presented to me regarding the property of the exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija from the Association of Refugees "Zora", as well as many Serbs who have escaped from Kosovo, I am asking for an explanation from the authorities, above all from the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, whom the Serbs have spoken to three times and have never received an answer. Also, I ask for a notice from current Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Goran Bogdanovic, who used to be minister in the Rugovina government, on all this. As we speak here today about the choice of deputy citizens' protectors, it would be good for him to deal with this issue, so that the problem I'm going to talk about is sort of solved. What's this about? More than 40,000 charges were filed between May and August 2004 by the exiled Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija for the return of the kidnapped property, which was usurped by the Cypriots. Houses, apartments, forests, fields, orchards, total movable and immovable property have been kidnapped. The charges were brought to the courts in Kosovo and Metohija, which were organised and organised by UNMIK, or the UN. I must point out that at the time, Serbs, like the other citizens who filed the lawsuit, had the assistance of the KIM Coordination Centre, which organised a legal team of lawyers to provide legal services to all interested persons who wanted to return their property through UNMIK courts. There's another story going on later. None of the Serbian state officials speak to them anymore. No one's pressuring UNMIK to finally begin handling the lawsuits filed. To the Shiptars, of course, it all fits so that nothing is resolved on this issue, and why would it be when they were exploited by the assets of the exiled Serbs. I'm looking for an explanation on behalf of these citizens, specifically the Zora Association, which addressed me, whether the state of Serbia can and has any intention at all to advocate the protection of human rights evicted from Kosovo and Metohija, to demand that the trial... (President: you've exceeded your time. _Other Organiser They start after the lawsuits are filed. Let them ask Zaneri Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. There's a general impression that the state...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3029	Mr. Ilichu, you've been talking for 30 seconds for more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3030	I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3031	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3032	Today's debate is quite solid and I think it's a good thing that the Guardian is in the O.R. and occasionally sublimes the answers to a number of questions. I use the right of members of 225 and 226 to refer to and other state bodies as one institution that has been torn apart and which is almost a source of human rights violations in Serbia. It's covered by the list of state authorities from your jurisdiction. It's the National Security Council. Why him? Because the results of everything that is legal and illegal collects that advice. The council is headed by Boris Tadic, but the chief operative is Miki Rakic, the secretary. They have a lot of documents there, evidence of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Apparently they've got something on this group as well. I think you should get involved to see what they've got, so someone can sit here cold as a syringe and as someone spits it out, he thinks it's raining. It takes nerve to do something like that, or there's a big reason. Of course, I also point out that I am fully aware of your constitutional and legal position. You will not be offended, but the one who has proposed such a law and who has imagined such a protector of citizens with those positions, he has designed it as a lacmus paper that will inform the public of the violations, and the state will particularly be interested when some agreement is found between the government and what the protecter of citizens finds. In all other cases, the public defender can come here and just spread his arms and say, but my powers end there. So, go to that advice, see what it's all about. Just one more lesson, it will be very short, I remind you, the entire National Assembly has reached agreement, a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija has been adopted, and at one of those points, it was said that Serbs did not go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. It only took one day for Boris Tadic to call. He doesn't respect anything. Don't be surprised. Don't lose your will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3033	It's been three minutes. Mr. Petar Jojic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have proposals for the selection of deputies proposed by Sasa Jankovic for his deputies as the protector of citizens. As it is said, Dr Goran Basic, a Dr. Political Science, could in no case be able to perform his duty in relation to professional activity and expertise. He is an expert in political science, but in the fields of those affairs and tasks that he should carry out as a deputy in no way could he be elected. Then, Tamara Luksic-Orlandic politician again. I can't figure out what you're handling when you're proposing a profession that's not a legal profession. A citizen's protector should be involved in protecting the rights and freedom of citizens. He must know the laws, at least it must be a graduate lawyer and have passed a judicial exam. He needs to handle cases, he needs to act on complaints. A political scientist can't possibly be considered. If so, then let us choose, as we once did in that previous system, that the judges of joint work are chosen by the mechanics who have little to do with the right and who make court decisions. Therefore, my view that this is unacceptable, that this is an extreme case in which it is due to apply the provisions today and tomorrow when this Ombudsman, or your deputy as protector, is to act. The deputy has the same rights and powers as the protector himself. When he doesn't have a protector, he's replaced by a deputy. That deputy can't tell you today when the citizens come to him, there's no protector, I'm a deputy, but you know what, since I'm a politician, I can't give you advice today, and I can't accept your complaint or complaint, please go ahead and wait when he gets back from vacation, off the official trip or any counseling if he's abroad. The public defender is not in that institution since yesterday, but for a full 10 months. I'm asking a question to the public defender, since the public defender is very much relying on NGOs -- do we, say do you know, the law on NGOs and do we have a law on foreign NGOs? You have relied and you generally accept the initiatives of Natasa Kandić, Sonja Biserko and other NGOs, which in any case do not have a foothold in the law, because we do not have a law on NGOs. Why didn't you push for it, and why don't you suggest, since you have a legislative initiative to pass a law on NGOs? Why don't you pass the law, and you want to join the EU? Yes, let's ask Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain, Wales have laws on NGOs and do they have laws on foreign NGOs? We have many foreign organizations and agencies in the country, and we don't have the law that those under the law can be legal and function - how so? For you, sir, one more question. You've been here 10 months. I'm asking you, did you ask a question about the state of the prison facility? Tell me what district prisons you've been in, where you've been in prison, and what state of human rights have you found in these institutions? Were you in the Belgrade CZ, were you in Kragujevac, were you in Panchev? Come to Panchevo to see the prison that was built during Maria Teresa and to see what state the people who were deprived of freedom live in. Were you in the New Sad County Prisons, Kragujevac, Valjevo, Užice? Why don't you say in your report what condition you've found? You're covering it up. You can't, you have to say that the situation is like that, and especially because you've allowed NGOs, even foreign organizations and foreign agencies and agents, to go to these institutions uninterrupted. It can't be like that. If you get that function and you enjoy rights, you also have obligations. There's one more question for you. Did you request a report on the death of Ranko Panic? Have you requested a report, have you been involved, since the Constitution and the law under which you act oblige you - that you are obliged to protect the rights of all citizens, that you are obliged to protect the rights of citizens who have been deprived of liberty wherever they are? Have you asked for a report, especially since we have ratified international agreements and the Law on Co-operation with the UN tribunal has been passed, have you, sir, requested a report on the state of health and of the conditions in which our detainee, SRS leader, Dr Vojislav Seselj, lives? Did you even ask a question, and did you ask for a report? If so, come out and tell us - I asked The Hague tribunal to provide us with a report on how Dr Vojislav Seselj is being treated, which his rights have been compromised, and what rights have been taken away from him for a long time? Therefore, these are the rights for which you, as protective citizens, must take care and have rights, but you also have obligations. Because under human rights and freedoms it must be seen to determine the legal position of individuals towards the authorities. Human rights and freedoms are a guarantee that the government must not overstep. Sir, have you located somewhere and determined whether human rights have been violated or not? If it is, you didn't say anywhere in the report -- that and that organization, that and that institution, they don't respect human rights. Here's an example, you see 700,000 items you have in Serbia for legalizing the objects that the citizens were building. Ask for a report on how many cases have been solved and ask where these officers and officials are, and why isn't local self-government solving cases? You took over the role of the former ministry that was for complaints and complaints, the good part. But you know the state of affairs when it comes to thousands and thousands of these complaints and complaints of citizens, as they have been resolved. They haven't been solved, only the figures are listed. Therefore, your role is great. You have immunity, you have rights, you have 50-60 employees. If the state has not provided you with conditions, the material and technical means are required to provide, but you are obliged to report regularly to the citizens or resign. Since our state has established this institution, this institution cannot be a letter on paper, but must be an institution that delivers results, which primarily determines and removes the consequences, but at the same time informs the public. But you, sir, appear a little out in public. You give a little report to the citizens, because most citizens still don't know that you exist. Come out on the media, take what little term Natashi Kandić and Sonji Biserko, you are more than that of this country, and therefore you have to roll up your sleeves and work thoroughly on these jobs. The congregation must control you, you must regularly file these reports and accounts. The state is obliged to provide you with conditions, and therefore I believe that you are bypassing a number of problems. I reminded you of prisons, the situation in prisons is catastrophic, the conditions of life are impossible, a large number of convicts appear. (President: I inform you that there is no time for the SRS anymore. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3035	Who first reported to the Rules of Procedure, there were more hands? There's a word from MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3036	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. Since someone stole the time to use the SRS, I'm going to have to take this opportunity by the Rules of Procedure to address Mr. Jankovic's public defender here. We all know that the patron of the citizens or the Ombudsman by definition is someone who should listen to all those who have been disfigured, humiliated, humiliated, and so forth. Today, when we have the situation as it is, we know that the public defender also has the right to initiate proceedings before the courts. Today, deception is the most present in Serbia, and when we open any daily newspaper, we will find many of those who are deceived in one way or another and suffer the most material damage from this delusion, and indeed in many cases and mental pain. I can't help but notice that there is a group of citizens sitting in this room who have deceived not one man, not a group of people, but more than a million Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS. So I want to ask the citizens' protectors, regardless of the formal assembly and congregation activities are not in his jurisdiction, what can do to prevent the deception of these more than a million people who voted for the SRS? I suggest that Mr. Jankovic, from this point on, try something to get the mandates of the SRS back. If he succeeds in doing nothing more for his term, he has done much, so he has managed to get more than a million deluded citizens of Serbia to gain some satisfaction in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3037	The President-in-Office, the presidency, a few questions to Mr. Ombudsman. There is a problem in the state of Serbia that has existed for more than 30 years. It is an official and unofficially recognised sectarian type organisations, which, through very serious religious and psychological manipulation, create this problem throughout the country of Serbia, of course, by committing their mission to violent missionaryism. The police are barely doing anything, the D.A.'s office is almost nothing. The damaged address from door to door, from institution to institution and usually get some unblemished answers, and get a guideline to report to some new door. In the European Union 30 years ago, for example, 40 years in France, this problem began to be very serious, to be taken first, and then to be solved. The European Parliament signed or adopted the first contract on the subject in 92. The first resolution on 29 February 96, and the third resolution in 2003, of course in the preamble, respecting all possible charters and laws that protect freedom of opinion, speech, religion, etc. It is in what the EU is doing, and everyone on this left is so unsustainable in the EU's embrace, I see neither desire nor intention, nor have I heard you over the past two years, as much as you are already working, that you have mentioned in the media anywhere this issue and solving this problem. It's about victims, people who have problems with sect-type organizations. It's not just religious organizations, it's cult-type organizations. The sectary victimology has gone really far. I can't understand that in this country no one wants to solve this problem. More than 500 people report to three counseling centers every year. Those 500 people are people we've recorded by name and name and problem. Of course, it's a small percentage of those people who solve that problem. When an institution needs to say something about a sect organization that creates a problem, their rights are usually protected, referring to the Constitution, freedom, religion, etc. However, one’s freedom ends in a place where he threatens his freedom, or freedom of another man with his conduct. So we can't just defend certain sect-type organizations and just look for space for their work and their freedom, because they came here yesterday, the day before, and we live here for hundreds and thousands of years. I'm particularly undermining here what we've been living under the achievements of Christian civilization for the last 2,000 years. I'd like to mention that we crash here both culturally, religiously and historically, etc. So, on the one hand, we are giving the initiative to address many European institutions such as FECRIS, such as the Centres Dialogue, especially the EU, and to look at all these resolutions that they have made. Every second or third month, they make some conventions of experts and people from the government, primarily police ministers, education, health care, religion, etc. We don't see it here, someone's pushing it under the carpet, covering it up, and we're just coming up with what we have and now here in our assembly, there's a political sect showing up and it's still existing, no problem at all, and no one's solving that problem. And so it is with all these others that we have in society, in our neighborhoods, in our cities. Some things have to be called their names, they have to be defined, and certain people have to be called. The laws exist, even with us, the question is who doesn't implement them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3038	After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish our mandate to the MPs in the National Assembly, in order to enable them to participate in the work. You have been presented with the RIK report on the allocation of the mandate to the MPs. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Ljubisa Petkovic, elected from the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj's electoral list, and Nenadu Canka, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia-Boris Tadic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to come into the O.R. and join us in our work. According to the agenda, Mr Batic answered. Your parliamentary group has 15 minutes and 36 seconds at their disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3039	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Sasa Jankovic has given a statement in "Blic" on Saturday that I fully agree with, that no independent institution in this country, whose constitutional and legal role to fight corruption, cannot fulfil its obligations and fundamental function, because there is no basic working conditions. That's your statement. You also said that there are no elementary possibilities when it comes to your institution, no space, no deputies, nothing, etc. This shows the country's attitude towards this extremely significant function. It was your turn to make it public here and all the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia. What is the maternal relationship of this state and towards the State Auditing Institution, and towards the Council for the Combating Corruption, and to the Public Procurement Administration, and to you as a protector of citizens, or your institution, and to the Commission for the Protection of Rights, therefore to all institutions whose primary and priority is to fight corruption. That is why today we are in a sad 84 to 91st place when the percentage of one society's corruption is at stake. There must be Guinea-Bissau and Burke's Faso behind us. Mr Jankovic, I would draw your attention that because of the incompetent parliamentary majority, you must bear in mind that a special category of citizens, MPs who are hostages of the incompetent parliamentary majority, should be protected. In doing so, I think of these MPs who do not participate in the ping-pong game between the parliamentary majority, who do not have the power to limit and regulate it, and the MPs of the SRS. Three days are those who are not on either side of the hostage, three days are all Serbian citizens hostage. We have a special category of citizens, meaning modern parliamentary slaves, because we have one completely incompetent parliamentary majority. I suggest that the MPs of the SRS no longer report for word. You know why? Let them put this point on the agenda if they have a parliamentary majority, a small test, to see what the parliamentary majority is constantly criticising the opposition, and it does not exist, because it cannot resolve relations between its coalition partners. Mr. Jankovic, one more thing, you've proposed four deputies, two of them are graduate lawyers, two are not. With all aspects of titles, occupations, etc. For this function, it is inevitable for a man to be a graduate lawyer. Read the text of your law and you will see that it is crawling with legal institutes, all of which are various legal or legal institutes. How, then, will the people who are the laymen of this matter give due measure and competence to protect the citizens who seek their protection? Semantic something's wrong. I say, with all due respect and respect, I don't know these people. You have a proposal for Mr Milos Jankovic. I don't know what his merits are about citizens' rights. This is where the prisons were mentioned. At a time when he was head of the Office for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions, it is likely his contribution to protecting citizens' rights, mobile phones in detentions were isolated, each room in Central Prison has several mobile phones. I guess that's the protection of the detainees. But there is nowhere in the world that prisoners, convicted persons, yes, but prisoners, that constantly, constantly, every day, I know, they call me, I wonder what it is, people from prison talk for hours. I guess that's the credit of Mr. Milos Jankovic. Also, pay attention that he, as a member of Zoran Stojkovic, has suspended many people who have worked in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. These people filed charges, the vast majority of those lawsuits succeeded and were returned to work. I don't have anything personal against anyone, but when you mention biographies to see what it's all about protecting human rights, and inside of this thing, from the profession I'm dealing with, I know it's a nucleus, that it's started a complete chaos in Central Prison, as the basic institution of the detention type in this country. Please protect modern parliamentary slaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3040	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I have to look back at Mr. Sasa Jankovic's previous exposure, who said that security services, thinking about the BIA, have the right to arrest citizens. When we discussed the case of the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, which was carried out against the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, I quoted the provisions of the 2002 BIA Act here and, if you remember, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I gave you one copy of the law. Nowhere in any member of the BIA Act does it say that the BIA has any right to arrest anyone. The BIA has the right to collect intelligence, to listen to phone conversations, etc. after court approval, to conduct informative talks with citizens of importance for the security of the Republic of Serbia, but there is no right to arrest anyone. The second reason I reported to the Rules of Procedure was the fact that all of us who were in the O.R. today were witnesses of the fact that Mr Tomislav Nikolic admitted to committing the crimes of stealing the SRS mandate when he said he owned those mandates, that the mandates were in his pocket, but that he would not return them to the SRS. These mandates are the assets of the SRS, i.e. the resignations of the SRS and are not given to Tomislav Nikolic personally, but are given to the SRS, in accordance with Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the MP is free to irrevocably place his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal he was elected MP. Since Tomislav Nikolic has admitted to committing a crime of theft, that he has committed a crime of fraud, abuse of official office, damage and destruction of other people's matters, I think that you, as president of the National Assembly, would simply be obliged to do so, a stenogram from today's session to deliver to the competent public prosecutor, in order for the public prosecutor to take steps out of his jurisdiction, because it is no longer a matter of ideology or who belongs to any party, this is a matter of pure crime. If you, as president of the National Assembly, allow the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to become the scene of various crimes, the question of democracy and parliamentaryism in Serbia can indeed be raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3042	I thank you, but I really spoke to this subject ten times yesterday and I will simply insult your intelligence if I answer the eleventh time. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3043	Madam President, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 1 and 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and above all on the basis of the Constitution, because Mr Martinovic, whom some ignorants call Marinkovic, is called by some of this refugee group, Mr Martinovic, and he is a man who was head of the SRS parliamentary group, does not know the names of MPs. He spoke of what was in fact a general consensus in Serbia of all political parties. And now I have to mention an event to bring you closer to how right we are and how much we want here that your conscience, which may have been put to sleep or somehow suppressed it because of such an order by Boris Tadic, is to encourage you to remember an event from our recent parliamentary past when it comes to MPs from the G17 parliamentary group. Namely, Sofronija Čonjagic and Vesna Ilic are two MPs who were then in the coalition with the parties to the G17 group, who activated the resignation in the seat of the MP, before the constitution was adopted, according to which Mr Martinovic, in Article 102(2), unrevocable, every MP is free to make the mandate available to the party under conditions in accordance with the law. Now, Mr. Jankovic, for you the question, you can now say - I do not, as the law actually defines, have no control over the work of the National Assembly, but you have the electoral will of citizens and with the freedom of rights and the decision of every citizen of Serbia. Hypothetically, at least a million Serbian citizens can now address you and bury you, these are SRS voters, with their notion that they were stolen in the National Assembly by their electoral rights. Since Serbia is one electoral unit, we've been through a lot in 18 years of multi-party, we've had nine and 29, so 16 constituency units and finally we've come to the point that according to Dont's system, or the system of Dont's scale, we have one electoral unit in which every vote won in the elections will be properly arranged, not to waste any vote by any voter, but to vote for the political party we can decide to transfer our share, as a citizen and each to you, to political representatives. The constitution has now been broken in the event of at least or, if you want to be calculated by the people of the Republic Bureau of Statistics following the elections or by one of the members of the RIK, at least 600,000 voters, if 60 thousand are required on such high turnout for one parliamentary term. It is no one's grandfather and no one's front, it is the electoral will of the citizens achieved in the elections and it has never been so rude to go to the kidnapping, robbery and end of the electoral will. What were we supposed to say then? It wasn't even the Constitution back then, but for us Serbian radicals it's always been that way. Go to the polls as a group of citizens, and you'll pass as a universalist movement or Yogi flyers... (President: Miss Jovanovic, time. )......................................................................................................... or an advanced party, forwarders, knows counterpart Ilic, I think they were from Nis, who went to the 1991 elections and won 0.5% of the vote. There were some of them, and who are they now, where are they from? So we have to deal with this until the end... (President: Miss Jovanovic, four minutes. I'm done. I appeal to you, as vice president of the National Assembly, Madam President, to protect the National Assembly, to protect the will of the voters and to return to the kidnapped, stolen mandates for us Serbian radicals. What an irony of fate and what a defeat and erosion of morality in Nikolic shows the fact that a man who was one of the first vice presidents of the National Assembly and from today on, I congratulate him again, our colleague Ljubisa Petkovic, in the most difficult days for the interests of the state and people and the defense of Professor Vojislav Seselj, shows high morals, honor and honesty... (President: Will you bring an end to the address, please. )......................................................................................................... And you have an insider who wants to kill Vojislav Seselj and who steals our mandates. Congratulations, Mr. Petkovic, you're an example of a real hero.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3044	Mr. Martinovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure. Because the public defender is here and I'm really experiencing part of your address, as well as the questions addressed to him, I'm not sticking to the strictest Rules of Procedure, but I'm asking you to take care of it. There is almost no speaker who has not spoken from half minutes to minutes more, addressing Mr. Jankovic as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3045	It seems to me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that you did not understand me. I understand you're trying to do it today, and on Friday, you did it, to teach the MPs of the SRS who's a legal path related to replacing the mandate of the SRS. I was talking about something else entirely. I was talking about the fact that the mandates have been stolen here, that the mandates of the SRS and that Mr Tomislav Nikolic has committed at least four crimes by stealing those mandates, i.e. the blank resignations given under the Constitution. I'm asking you, in a scale with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an explanation, of whether you will deliver a stenogram from today's session to the competent public prosecutor, to take appropriate steps in order to detect who did this crime, under what circumstances, so that the competent court may finally impose appropriate sanctions. That's what this is about. Don't forget one more thing, the lawyers know, in the Code of Criminal Procedure there's one provision that goes about like this -- if a public prosecutor gets a vote that a criminal act has been committed, he's obliged to take steps out of his jurisdiction. This means that citizens don't even have to file criminal charges. It's enough for him to hear that some crime has been committed. And here is a session of the National Assembly today and Friday and the previous days is the best place where a competent public prosecutor could have known all the circumstances and facts related to these crimes. I'm not asking you to explain to us how the mandates change, all the MPs of the SRS know that. I ask you to plead, or explain to the MPs, whether a stenogram from today's session, which contains evidence, i.e. the recognition of Tomislav Nikolic that he has committed crimes, will be delivered to the competent public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3046	Mr. Martinovic, I have a mandate to speak only of the legal path. But if you insist that the Assembly deliver your stenograms to the prosecutor, that's what we'll do. Mr. Krasic answered, so you again. Are you unhappy again?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3047	Mrs. Djukic, I'm pleased, you know, there's no need to worry. As you noticed, I'm the only MP who takes your warning seriously and you've never let me overstep that time. As soon as you write, I'll run away. Once again, he is a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure, and that member regulates what are the rights and obligations of the National Assembly president. This also applies to the chairpersons who chair, and vice-presidents who chair the session of the National Assembly. What's this about? You might be worried, you might want to make an impression in public - the situation is regular, let's move on. What's-her, push on. There's no problem. But I'm absolutely certain that in the depths of your soul you're extremely dissatisfied, disappointed by what's going on with the mandates of the SRS. I am absolutely certain of that, as I am sure of for a good number of MPs. I'm not sure about DS, they rub their hands and only applaud, they're protagonists of that policy, gentlemen of the SPS, that's where I support you - the worse, the better. What's this about? Today we have managed to convince the public that we have a paramilitary secret organization, which is not even at the level of an NGO, so we have asked Mr. Protector of the Citizens to question the National Security Council, perhaps I have misnamed the National Security Council, etc. And it's clear to everyone what it's all about, and that the resignations have been stolen, that the mandate is in the pocket, not with the citizens, not with the party, but in the pocket, so one lady has suffered insults, and we've heard all sorts of things. It's not enough warning for you to make an official inquiry and task the authorities to help you get out of this situation. Today we used our right to discuss the motion for a decision. As I have noticed, there are other parliamentary groups who have accepted our suggestions regarding the qualification of Deputy Protectors of Citizens, we have understood the position of Protectors of citizens who are very difficult, because the government is not counting you, but counting on you to abuse you. I guess that's clear and you're complaining about it. But I can't understand, Mrs. Djukic, that after so much serious argumentation and the fact that a few years ago she was a real race to the office, whose resignation will come before... (President: It's been three minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm out of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3048	You're really time-trained. Mr. Martinovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3049	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the place where laws are passed and where these laws must be respected and implemented. It is not a question of whether I am satisfied or dissatisfied, it is your or my personal impression, it is that, pursuant to Article 226, I have asked a concrete question - whether you will inform the competent public prosecutor that citizen Tomislav Nikolic has admitted to committing the crime of stealing the SRS mandate. You don't have to deliver to the public prosecutor a stenogram of my presentation, but a stenogram with the presentation of Tomislav Nikolic. He admitted here that he had resignations, that he had those resignations, which is the opposite of the Constitution, and that he didn't want to return them to the SRS. So I'm asking you to give us an answer to the question of whether or not you're going to get to know the public prosecutor in charge? It doesn't matter whether I'm satisfied with your answer or not. Just by reporting back, you know I'm not happy, but I'm asking you to state to the National Assembly whether, as president of the National Assembly, you're going to meet a competent public prosecutor with the fact that a citizen today admitted to committing a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3050	My question -- are you satisfied, had no idea that I was interested in your emotional state at all. On the contrary, I was just about to ask if the way I plan on doing it was appropriate. As I can see, you're still expecting me to say something else. Let me tell you. So, a full stenogram from today's session, if you insist, will be delivered to the prosecutor and he will find, if he finds, material for his actions. In that sense, I absolutely accept your suggestion, especially if you insist on it. I hope we're clear. Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3051	Mrs. Djukic, I appeal to article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now I'm gonna let you know that everything I've been up to today, I've made it happen. Please hire a service that will take care of you, your advisors and your coalition partners, especially Boris Tadic. I would ask you to take the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and read Article 2(2). For the sake of the public, I will inform you what it says: "No state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens or establish power beyond the free will of citizens." Please, today we have proven that you have made it possible for people who are not MPs to enter matters of sovereignty. By no act, they proved nothing that they were messengers of the people. Morality doesn't exist, honesty doesn't exist, crime does -- we'll check. There is, we'll check it out. I can't talk in advance, but we'll check. So at Miki Rakic's and ask about what Boris Tadic did, so he singled out this group. Why did he single out? To kill Vojislav Seselj. It's Boris Tadic's decision. In order to achieve this, he also stepped down the provisions of the Constitution on sovereignty, as it allowed a small group of citizens to decide on issues of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3052	The state must do everything to protect every citizen, including Mr. Seselj, on the one hand. On the other hand, verification of the term of office is an act that makes someone an MP. As long as the circumstances of the verified mandate don't change, every MP is an MP to me. Miss Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3053	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I just thought that Mr Krasic had his successful mission, as well as Master Martinovic, worked educationally during today's debates and arguments that are indisputable, based in the Constitution and in the law. However, I am advocating a violation of Article 103. A Rules of Procedure, which says no interference with the speaker is allowed. During Mr Krasic's presentation, one DS MP noted that the SRS's stolen mandates and said it was now an informal group of public-represented citizens, the colleague said "who brought you votes and mandates". They didn't bring anything to anyone, they just took it, stole the mandates, and we'll talk about other kidnappings in front of other government authorities when it comes to financial and other malfeasances. As for that, I think it is a completely distorted view and understanding in one way that is not acceptable, especially in parliamentary democracy, where it is an electoral list and where the party bearers the sovereignty of citizens who, with so many mandates and votes, have transferred what the Constitution has guaranteed them, and that is to protect their rights. Since I hear it in these informal talks, "someone's running, he's won so much," the party, the people. What would you be without a party? Who knew about you? I could meet Mr. Milivojevic as a Yakuza Progress fan or some enthusiast who likes to write literary papers or some man who likes fashion or visit other events. Where can I meet you, Mr. Milivojevic, that Boris Tadic and DS have not run for election? I don't want to go on individual cases. So, don't have any twisted consciousness about it, so I don't use a worse expression. People without parties in Serbia's parliamentary life are nothing. Those who want to make a party, well, it's a long way to go. I told you, we have that Advanced Party - Progressives, they've been there for 17 years, they've registered political parties, they've photocopyed 100 ID cards and they've signed up there. Who these new guys are, I really don't know. Whether they'll experience the same fate as the Universalist movement, the Yogi Flyers, and already whoever shows up, we'll see about that. A authentic advance has entered again, and this is Mr. Miloljub Albianic. It is a real advance in the National Assembly, whom I confess only as such. Let's start with bringing back the kidnapped, stolen mandates of the SRS. Speaking of which, that someone brought something. People, when you have such a powerful political party, such as the SRS, so well organized, so homogeneous, so strong, so authentic by representing national and state interests, which has such a president as Dr Vojislav Seselj, so in his absence you can run and crocodile, he will get the votes he needs to get one such powerful party as the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3054	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Yes, Mr. Rose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3055	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Mr Jankovic, with so much trouble, we have come to the opportunity to discuss this item of the agenda, which is extremely important for all citizens of Serbia. What was inadmissible in the previous period is that these deputies had no opportunity to be elected. The SPS, along with its coalition partners, has now made it possible for this to be on the agenda and for citizens' protection deputies to be elected. What is very important for citizens to have their lawyer, their representative, the Ombudsman, is that the same individual also has his associates to delegate a part of the work they would do and thus satisfy the interest of all citizens, regardless of the politicality of any party that will interpret this choice in one way or another, or interpret the role of the protection of citizens. This is a value system that we adopt on the path of European integration. No matter what this point here, as well as all the other points, is used for new details of the divorce case that is going on in the SRS, I simply think it's important that citizens realize that there are much more serious things to say here in parliament and that those who practically stop Parliament's work or slow it down, which is now a positive liquid, have earlier stopped, now slowed down, should be aware that, regardless of what they claim here and sometimes give the right argument, simply the citizens who voted for them are not too happy with that fact that they will exclusively deal with being homogeneous, strong, strongest and very good, even great political organization, allow themselves to disappear. Therefore, in any case, I think it is very important, and for who knows which time to point it out from this pay phone, to move to the agenda points, to move on to what we have promised, and those who are the opposition and those who are the position, Serbian citizens ahead of the 11 May elections, to move on to the vote of the law that will create conditions for Serbia to move forward and to start dealing with the work that we are all paid for right here by the taxpayers, i.e. from the citizens of Serbia, or from the holders of sovereignty under the current Constitution, which is exactly the citizens of Serbia. One such circus that lasts in the Assembly, which some of the opposition parties accuse us of, and even some new parliamentary slaves, that we are guilty of parliamentary majority, simply cannot be right and do not have the right argument. What was the request and the SRS, which is to address the issue of a committee in which the presidency has opposition. The agreement must be reached by them, and I repeat by who knows which way, those who are their own, which is precisely the representatives of the opposition, because this gentleman's agreement is such that those committees that are defined by the opposition to have its own president, the opposition is also agreeing, and the party from which the president comes, and the party personally makes its proposal. As for one and the other conflicted parties, whether this is a group of citizens or representatives of the SRS, there are some other bodies that I hope will indeed decide and decide in a metric way to block the work of this parliament. Who has contributed to your number of votes in the elections, let the citizens determine that. I repeat, we will not call new elections because of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3056	Thank you. First Mr. Batic, and then you'll be the replica. Then Mr. Todorovic's replica. LDP's got 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3057	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a week ago from this same pay phone as MP of the DHSS, I drew attention to a frantic detail: not counting on a few ratifications of international contracts which are not the laws of the word, the parliament in this assembly, formed after the May 11th elections, has not passed a single law to date. In view of the pre-election campaign, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has not passed a single law in nine months since the New Year's Eve. And there are hundreds of laws to be brought into line with European legislation. Everyone is full of mouths telling us to join European integration as soon as possible. This is the way we'll never do it. Europe will be one for us to let go, a far, inexplicable dream. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was planned that a set of eight laws, inter alia, and a white Schengen list, which was being deceived by people at the top of today's government, would be provided by Wednesday, by Friday, by September, by the end of the year. Only fair said President Boris Tadic, because the same one or those who promised it claimed that by the end of the year we would be candidates for EU membership: a colorful lie, a sale of fog, deception and lies. Europe, including democracy, implies two basic principles: responsibility and exchangeability. You cannot deceive people and turn all citizens of this country into citizens of the second order, and violate the rights of all citizens of this country because you cannot ensure that this parliament works and works. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, most kindly please find a mechanism to get out of this dead end. It is obvious that they must withdraw the proposals of these eight laws, because the extraordinary session stands out, the time of the extraordinary session expires, and enters the procedure of the regular session starting on Wednesday, then Jovo again. That's not how it works. This is what the citizens of Serbia are looking at. The work of parliament is financed by the country's taxpayers. What do they get in return? To wait in line before the embassies, to tell them about a better life in Europe, to tell them about the protection of their elemental rights. How? This can't happen. You need to find a modus and solve this question. As DHSS MP, we LDP MPs have the will and will to help with all those projects that lead through Europe, to make citizens of Serbia citizens of Europe, to proudly say live in Serbia, not live in the Dark Fairy, where we still talk and listen to nonsense for days, weeks, months. I repeat once again, this parliament has not passed a single law. Don't talk about the laws of ratification of international agreements. Those aren't laws. We can call them stops, but that's not it. No law has been passed. How long? At this rate, these eight laws will not be passed by New Year's Eve. The opposition is not responsible for that. The parliamentary majority is responsible for this state, for the twilight of parliamentaryism, for the national assembly's negation. I'm really appealing and I'm asking you to find a form, find a moduso, find a solution, otherwise this could take a while. This threatens to become everyday and that simply all people say, we have an extremely irresponsible government, completely incompetent people, who need to lead us into some bright future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3058	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Replica, please. Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3059	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as far as the divorce case is concerned, however it ends, someone will feel the consequences. Those who complain about this assembly talk, says our people, not that village barks for it, but for it is for itself. The fact is, and if it stays like this, the SRS will have five times as many mandates as you won these elections. That's what the citizens of Serbia said. You look to me like that Peru scribe from the administrative office, recommend to Miki Rakic how you remain faithful to Boris Tadic and his way, and how you will do everything, and what is required and what is not asked of you. You have a completely different problem, a problem that you have to explain to your members and to all those you promised and the reasons why you are entering the coalition with the DS. You can see that these days. You can tell by the promised distribution in public enterprises that you won't get. There's no more discussion here. I'm told by one of your colleagues who was supposed to be one of the directors of this one public firm, an honest man says, "It's not a problem for me, I have something to live on, but I don't know how they're going to get on the main board to explain to those tens and hundreds of people who convinced us that we should go into government and get jobs when we get into government." You won't get anything, in the next election you'll even be a weak out-of-parliamentary party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3060	There's a word Mr. Ruzic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3061	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am reporting by article 101. I really thank Mr. Todorovic for what he's been up to, and I think we'll consider that when we make certain decisions on our party bodies. Anyway, I wish, of course, you had more votes in the next election, and for the SPS vote, don't worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3062	Mr. Jankovic, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3063	Dear Madam President, members of the presidency, MPs, today we have indeed discussed topics of importance for all citizens of Serbia, and of course for the institution that I represent at this point. Of everything that's been said, I would single out for this last address the fact that really one topic is highlighted in relation to four candidates, namely the qualifications of four candidates, which is a law school. Let me say a few words about it. I will not call on the law not to seek law as a condition for a deputy, I will not appeal to the law precisely because the fact that there is life and beyond law is therefore not the only thing that regulates life. I'll tell you, in the Republic of Slovenia, the work of the Ombudsman is done by a psychiatrist. (Dragan Todorovic, a raider from the scene: What are you complaining about? I'm not complaining to you. So I'm saying the law doesn't require that. I say the law is explicit in the need to provide assistance to the Ombudsman, therefore, deputies provide assistance to the Ombudsman in matters relevant to the area of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, the protection of the rights of the child, gender equality, persons with disabilities and the rights of national minorities. Four proposals I made, i.e. one proposal with four persons is not the result of any coalition agreement. I've instructed them, as you know, a year ago and if they had been the subject of it so far, these proposals would have been changed. These four proposals are the result of my conviction that, I remind you, has not been challenged once in these years, neither in the professional nor in the broadest circles. In their professional life, these four people have shown the greatest knowledge from these areas that the law requires to help me carry out. You are aware of the importance of protecting citizens' rights today. You are aware, of course, that neither I nor any of you can be at the same time expert on each of these topics. I am convinced that the choice of these four men, these four persons, two women and two men, will be in the best interest of protecting the rights provided for by law and the Constitution. Thank you for today's discussion because many Serbian citizens today have had an additional opportunity to learn much about the institution that was established for them; therefore, not because of the European Union and other parts of the world, but because of the citizens of Serbia. You must understand that after today's discussion, the number of complaints will be tripled, tripled, decimated and my obligation to ensure efficiency in responding to these complaints. I repeat, the protection of citizens is no substitute for the legal system, is no substitute for regular legal medicines and is no substitute for courts. It is an institution that, by reason of reason, needs to convince someone, even if they are formally called upon to the right, that fundamentally the right is not achieved, if that is not the case. I ask you to vote for my deputies, I repeat, not as the Constitution requires for the absolute majority, but mine and their sincere desire to be unanimous, because in their work, I am quite confident, there will be no political bias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-29-0.u3064	Mr Jankovic, allow me to thank, on behalf of the MPs and on my own behalf, for my active participation today in the National Assembly. I'm concluding a unique search. After having conducted a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion for a decision on the election of Deputy Protectors of Citizens in the day to vote. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of MP Đeric Zlata. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE DECISION on the termination of the duties of the legal holders for this item of the agenda, you have adopted the following proposals: 1. Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of the President of the Court, No 118-2171/08, 2. Proposal for a decision to suspend the court's duty, number 118-2173/08, 3. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the office of the President of the Court, No 118-2172/08, 4. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the court's duty, No 118-2170/08, 5. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the prosecutor's office, No 118-2175/08, 6. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic, No 118-2174/08, and 7. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a public prosecutor, number 118-2176/08, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 9 minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds, and the PUPS group – six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions to suspend the duties of judicial officers. Allow first all believers of Muslim religion to congratulate Ramadan Bayram and, in accordance with the agreement with our MP Ferz Celovic, he first appeared, has the first word.
