ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-27-0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I advertise my Rules of Procedure, I would like to congratulate the participants of the Vidovdan March. I wish them a nice and pleasant stay in Kosovo and Metohija and I thank everyone who participated and supported the Vidovdan March, especially the Youth Patriotic Organisation "1389." I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Articles 255 and 256. I would like to inform this home that there has been an ethnic conflict between Serbs and Shipara in the village of Berivojce, So Kosovo Kamenica, Kosovo Pomoravlje, Kosovo and Metohija. Namely, what happened on the day before yesterday? It's a village that counts about 180 Serbian households. In the center of the village there is a playground that children from the village use to be recreational. Without any permission and without any consent from any institution, the Shiplars began to dig up the foundations for a new mosque. That mosque is only two-and-a-half meters from the football field. Normally, residents rebelled and sought the protection of KFOR and UNMIK to prevent an illegal construction of a mosque in their village. To remind you that they have asked both UNMIK and KFOR, as well as the municipality itself, but have never received the necessary and necessary consent in order to build such a mosque. Serbs have no problem, nor are they against building a mosque, but they are opposed to building in the centre of their settlement, where there is no Shiptar, and to building on a football field used by their children. It all started yesterday around 10.00 hours. Normally, the Serbs stopped that crew and drove those machines off the playground. Then the members of the KPS came from the ranks of the Shiparian people and they participated on different sides in one fight that took place, so that there were five or six injured from both sides. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another attempt by the Cypriot terrorists to put pressure on the remaining Serb population. It is precisely the result of our silence, our silent observation of everything that is happening in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Instead of assigning the Assembly, after verifying the mandate of 250 MPs on 11 June, and condemning the attempt or giving the opportunity to the MPs to express their opinion on the unilateral declaration of the Kosovo Constitution and the Metohija Constitution, we cannot observe it. That silence of ours means the approval of that constitution. Normally, they immediately step into action and begin to put pressure on the remaining Serb population. We must not stand by and watch what happens in Kosovo and Metohija. In Kosovo and Metohija, 135,000 Serbs are unprotected. KFOR members did not want to participate, they did not want to prevent the conflict. After preventing conflict and ending it, they came, as they always do when an incident happens, just to determine what they did and how they did. I think we made one big mistake, an unforgivable mistake, and we gave the wings to the Shiptar Separatism to continue to grow in the space of Kosovo and Metohija by not calling the Serbian Parliament, to give an opportunity, to give the chance to the MPs to express their position, their opinion on whether they accept this unilateral declaration of the Kosovo Constitution or not. We are obliged and are obliged to protect, above all, the Constitution of the Serbian State, and the Constitution states that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state have been violated by such a unilateral act of declaring the Constitution of Kosovo and Metohija. We are obliged to protect both Kosovo and Metohija, because in the preamble of the Constitution it is written. However, we are all silent, pretending like nothing is happening, as if it were far from us, and they abuse it, and they say -- the Serbian parliament is silent, the Serbian government is not advertising, the Serbian president is not advertising, why we should not exert additional pressure and then banish these 130,000 or 140,000 Serbs from the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you who are making this majority coalition, which you are ready to create a government, which will be formed in a few days, I must tell you, no matter how much your employers do not respect international law, you have no right to do so. You must respect all international documents, all international norms that apply after World War II until today, which the state of Serbia has signed, because only through the protection of these international documents, through the protection of national and state interests, through the protection of the UN Charter, through the protection of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, we can help Serbs, above all those who are down, survive, and then in a better time to enable the return of displaced Serbs, who have more than 250,000 across Serbia, and also across Europe and the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you of the ruling coalition have harshly violated those first two of your principles, and as far as I know, your first principle is national and state interest, and you have not implemented this, and the second principle -- Kosovo and Metohija, you have just closed your eyes to one of those events and there are dozens of injured, five on one side and five on the other, to one tense atmosphere in which only international forces can rule. This is what I want to appeal, first of all, to the president of Serbia, who is currently in office, and to immediately address KFOR and UNMIK representatives, and to prevent this illegal, violent construction of that mosque in the village of Berivojce in the Kosovo Kamenica municipality assembly and to avoid escalating the conflict in the area. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it takes more time and more energy to invest to protect the remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-27-0.u216	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. I remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled for the National Assembly to educate committees. The National Assembly has 30 permanent committees, and the number of members of those committees has been established by the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary groups propose members of the Committee shall be proportionate to the number of MPs they have in the National Assembly, with the total number of members of the Committee on Economic Reforms being 12 representatives of the other committees, and as regulated by Article 68(2). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provisions of Articles 24 and 25. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been presented to you a proposal for a list of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is drawn up on the basis of individual proposals by parliamentary groups in the National Assembly with additions and corrections. Also, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of parliamentary groups. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the MEP's group "For European Serbia" - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica - 36 minutes; the G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MEP Group of Coalition SPS - PUPS - JS - 24 minutes; the LDP Group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds and the Manjina Parliamentary Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a search on a list of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? (Yes) The word has been issued by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-27-0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I won't be long, but I would ask you to consider two new acts of the SRS parliamentary group. One in which we propose, according to the proportion that belongs to us, three members of the Committee on Economic Reform, it did not enter the material that you received, and these are the MPs: Milan Nikolic, Stefan Zankov and Bojan Mladenovic. If you agree to vote on this committee, you will also vote on this SRS proposal. The second is one change in the Committee on Agriculture, instead of the MP Ognjen Mihajlovic, we are proposing as a member of the Committee the National MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-27-0.u218	Thank you. Since no one's answered the word again, I'm closing the search. Before moving to a decision, I remind you to comply with Article 25(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the proposed list for the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly shall be decided in general by a public vote. Also, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the selection of board members by majority of the votes of all the National Assembly MPs. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a list of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with addition and correction, and as proposed by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. For 207, there was no 11 vote, out of 218 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority vote a list of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's committee, with additions and corrections. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – NAME OF THE SECRETARY OF THE National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal from the President of the National Assembly to appoint Veljko Odalović as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before the search opens, I'd like to remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Also, I remind you that according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary groups. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the MEP's group "For European Serbia" - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica - 36 minutes; the G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MEP Group of Coalition SPS - PUPS - JS - 24 minutes; the LDP Group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; and the Minority Parliamentary Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds. I ask the parliamentary groups that, if they have not already done so, they shall file a statement with the order of the Members of Parliament. I am opening an investigation into the proposal to appoint the secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) I'd like to inform you that no one has answered the floor. I'm finishing the search. Before we approach the vote, I would like to request a brief consultation of 10 minutes with the heads of Parliament. [[After break – 12.45]] Since no one has answered the word, I am concluding the search and, before we approach the vote, I remind you that according to Article 119(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure... Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-27-0.u220	I think the National Assembly should be informed of something that is happening in Serbia, if we are not already discussing it. The 6th time of the District Court in Sapac repeats the elections in the municipality of Loznica in the town of Basčeluci. This is how I was informed by the Ginis Commission, just to inform them that the correction will be made seven times, the seventh time elections will be held. The candidate from my party beats you every time, but apparently, the justice system isn't independent in Capca, and we all know that he's a minister from Capca and that there's obviously pressure on the County Court in Sapco to rule like this, and all for the interest of DS and G 17 plus, i.e. Local powermakers from the region, the former mayor sitting here among us, Vido Petrovic, and also another MP who is the head of the district, Mr Puric, who and how they work, otherwise from the DS, to form a congregation majority in Loznica. They can't vote the people, they're spending a lot of money, as our friends and brothers from Vojvodina would say, in the elections there. Four kilometers, now it's said to be a swimming pool. So, there's some little Jagodina in that village, but it doesn't work, they lose the election every time, and they repeat it over the District Court. I don't know how long that's gonna take, do you really think that's until Giniz's book puts it on record?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-27-0.u221	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Before we approach the vote, I remind you that, according to Article 119(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly consider the decision to be made if it was voted by more than half of the identified MPs. I am voting on a proposal to appoint Veljko Odalovic as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For 126, one of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has appointed Veljko Odalovic as secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate Veljak Odalovic on his appointment as Secretary of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to thank the current secretary Tamara. I would ask that they remain members of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Administrative Committee to hold the first sessions of these committees. The sessions will be held in the blue salon, with 10 minutes apart, in the following order: the Legislative Committee, then the Committee on Justice and Administration and thereafter the Administrative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decisions, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you will be informed of the next one.
