ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5730	Dear Presidents, the working presidency, the respected minister, representatives of the government, respected MPs, the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia's United Party has for the first time reacted to the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the president of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I shall advertise the violation of Rule 93(4) and Article 104(1) of the Rules of Procedure. About that, I want to explain the following. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I answered the words of Article 93, which enables the National Assembly to speak in 10 minutes. I registered neatly with the secretary of the National Assembly and the president of the National Assembly. I didn't get the word. In accordance with Article 104 after the minister's presentation, I also reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and did not get a word. In that sense, I advertise the violation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. We asked for a word for the following reasons – we wanted to point to the Minister's statement about the pensioner's debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5731	I would ask the MPs to allow us to hear. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5732	Why did the MP group react to that? Let's make our views known about the support budget and explain the reasons why we're doing it. After what happened last night, our parliamentary group will announce its position by the time the vote is due. The group of the United Pensioners of Serbia wants to treat all parliamentary groups in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to protect this parliament's dignity. The speaker of the assembly announced last night that they had agreed on some dealings with MPs. We weren't involved in that either. We were expecting a call during last night and today to get an explanation regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure. We didn't get it until today. We wanted to point to the next one. To answer those questions that remained unexplained about the budget, especially the pension fund, pension payments, the increase, etc., which was here. We wanted to explain that we are not asking other users of the budget to overflow or as it is said and as the Minister said - 'gives pensioners'. We just wanted to point out the inadmissible behaviour of certain ministries, and this will be seen from the next points of the agenda, that they are not doing their job and that the problem with these tax and contribution payments is not that there is no money to increase pensions. We wanted to point out that PUPS promises are not a dead letter on paper, that pensions are up 10% and that's reality. We wanted to say that investment in young people, in workers and pensioners, is a development function, not just consumption. We also wanted to point out the need for greater concern from the government and all others about the social dimensions of the state, legal, democratic, that this principle of social justice in the state is being realized. If I'm out of time, I'll speak in the second part about Ms. Secretary's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5733	Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5734	Article 225(1) as regards Article 226 So, yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear finally what we were waiting for for for days, a statement by Minister Krkobic that pensions will not increase to the desired percentage from 70% to 2010, which we knew at the very beginning, which we knew the moment you promised, but especially irritated when after such a statement by Minister Krkobbić we see Mr. Colakovic, Peric and others here who have a tendency to explain what is not clear to anyone alive. I don't know what's wrong with you people and how you're not ashamed. Regardless of your age, you're the same person who was part of that system that ruined the pension funds and today you find it appropriate to blackmail your coalition partners. And today you find it appropriate to blackmail your coalition partners with idiotic promises that can't be fulfilled, which the birds on the branch know, and the little children, to make a circus out of this country. It is no shame for you to say, to react to the Presidency of the President of Parliament, to which we have thousands of objections, so you have now found a reason to come out to say one of your points. We're going to tell you today what's the point in this case and what it looks like to get the citizens to do, what you've been doing for decades, and today you've come back over so-called. The PUPS to destroy this country continues. Where do you think these resources come from for your promises? Will you create them with a magic wand? How do you plan to do that? Just as the entire government is incompetent, we heard the minister say yesterday (quote from a stenogram): "What you're doing here today is a fight and so is the struggle within the government. Thus, fighting is an integral part of life and something that is normal. Someone in that fight goes worse, someone better, and that's a decision, it's a compromise and consensus, and I don't think there's anything controversial about it." So, the minister said yesterday, in a very indirect way, but for me it's a very open way, that the government doesn't have any coherent views on key issues, but I guess you're fighting there, voting, trying to come up with some idea of what to do. The best example for you is that you wait 20 days after the initiative, which the minister admitted yesterday, to secure the sum of deposits and increase the amount of the security amount. It took you 20 days to think of it as 50,000 euros, so when you thought of it as 50,000 euros, then you remembered to say, as the minister here says, it's something called the viewing effect. So we see what it's like in the EU, so we're going to hit 50,000 euros, and then it says there's a double-secured sum. It is double-secured, it is nothing controversial, dear lady, but the problem is that your construction lacks 500m euros to cover. Do you go out in front of citizens, just as you did in front of citizens with an idea in the election campaign, which will never be realized, about free actions for public enterprises, just like you did in front of citizens with this amazing story of 70% of pensions, which will never be realised, at least not while you're sitting there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5735	MP Colakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5736	Mr. Aligrudic, I personally invite you to protect the dignity of the Assembly and to choose the words you speak for this speaker. We're proud of our age and our actions, and you see how proud you'll be. [[Applause]] It's not worth commenting on what Mr. Aligrudic said here. With regard to the second part of Ms. Minister's presentation at yesterday's session, I only want to warn two things. The first is that pensions in January have not increased by 11.7%. It's a 2007 debt payment and it can't be said like that. Therefore, pensions have not been increased by 35%, as said here. An extraordinary pension adjustment in January for 11.7% was the payment of the 2007 debt. It is a law that this parliament passed, which is not respected and is not respected today. I'm just going to warn, the extraordinary pension adjustment in January only covered the law against the legal obligation up to 60% for January and February alone, that pensions so far have fallen back to 53%, and the law adopted by this Assembly says they can't go below 60%. Another thing to say, it's said here that the old debt is paid to the pensioners. Yes, we don't deny it, but, please, from 2000 to today, pensioners have been denied 200 billion dinars in various ways, by passing laws in 2001, 2003 and 2005. These funds pay off the debt, not what certain government ministers say, to "give it to pensioners". Pensioners want to live with dignity and demand that their working lives be respected, their works, all economic, cultural, economic and other goods that they have achieved in the last 40 years of their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5737	National MP Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5738	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting under Article 104, because Mr. Colakovic, by his own exposure, and the first and second time, has really offended the Parliament's dignity, because he has told us things that are not completely real, so they are not true. What I'm trying to say is that today it's pretty clear that the government doesn't have a single policy at all. This has been shown in many questions in the last 100 days. I'll just mention, say, an energy deal with Russia. Last night and yesterday we saw they don't have a single policy when it comes to pensions. We have seen that there is a group of ministers in the government that is against raising pensions, another group that is for increasing pensions, and some have shown up to compromise. What we also saw and heard last night, Mrs. Minister said last night in her address that it was a matter of fighting, that everything in life was a struggle and that in the struggle of opinions something that would repercuse a large number of citizens, more specifically, a million and 600,000. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that we were told that the government at the beginning, when it was created, had a unique view of the issue of raising pensions. Today, 100 and a few days later, we see that it's impossible. It is particularly interesting how Deputy Prime Minister Krkobibic justifies the delay. Be careful, as he says "deposit" by 2010, "now it's a global crisis" and he won't bring down a government of Serbia's interest. What do you think, dear citizens and dear fellow Members of mine, is the interest of Serbia to have a government with an increase in price: "gas 60%, telephone 195%, meat 22%, dried-up products 99.9%, sugar 9.5%, tobacco 9.5%", not counting, because it is absolutely all expensive here, and it has been announced since January next year that not only will it collect a subscription, which has already been expensive, but also an impulse of 100%, so it is clear that Serbia is not interested in having a government that talks one, but is doing another, which sells Kosovo, which will not only pay the pensions they have. What else do I want to say? Whose interest is it that Serbia has this government? Well, Vladin and these ruling majority, which of that and how he has his own interests, above all, personal. Now that Mr. Krkobic says that the recession, that it is a crisis, that is an economic crisis, I have to ask – why here, when the opposition in the Assembly is talking a few days about the coming crisis, that we really need to be careful, that we have to take care of what our budget is, that we have to take care of budget rebalancing, to save, tells us that we are making unnecessary panic, we are told: "Lord, you have to take care that we are building a team that is watching." (President: Time. ) Minister Dinkic says "we will profit from this crisis". Today it is said that the head of the PIO fund has been placed at the SPS. It is a direct thorn in the eye of all citizens of this Serbia, as the SPS was part of that lever of government that completely destroyed the same pension system. The government is a team that loses all battles and that's absolutely clear!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5739	National MP Konstantin Arsenović, then Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5740	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. What I'm saying is, I'm not gonna use Mr. Aligrudic's dictionary. I won't insult you, although I may, by age, have the right to insult you younger, but I won't serve myself. There's something else I want to say. The previous government, whose president was from your party, did not respect the basic legal provisions relating to pensioners and other categories of socially endangered citizens. You didn't respect the Pension System Act, you didn't respect the laws that applied to pensions and salaries in the military, you didn't respect your own regulations, you didn't pay the benefits you needed, and now you're surprised why pensioners advocate and fight for their rights. You've now accurately confirmed this fact that you're not interested in pensioners. I'm asking you, if that's your attitude, then, here, make it clear and loud what you want from the pensioners. What's he got to do with them? I don't want to comment on it. I think it's quite enough. You want to bridge the whole burden of transition across the back of pensioners, not taking care of the possible consequences of that category of citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5741	The word is by the MP Miroslav Petkovic, and by Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5742	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, advertised violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. I do not understand at all Mr. Colakovic, who has made remarks here that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured by exposure to Mr. Aligrudic. Mr. Colakovic, I don't know why you're surprised that no one consults you when you agree on Parliament's work here. It's not the first time. You said you'd be clear to the vote. Go out for a pay phone and plead today whether you will support this or not, and not wait a few days, so you can settle with the ruling coalition in the meantime. No wonder you're not consulted when the vice presidents obviously don't speak to each other. Jovan Krkobic tells one thing, Mladjan Dinkic the second, Bozidar Djelic the third, cannot agree and then we have a statement that we heard yesterday from the Deputy Prime Minister of Krkobic that the pre-election promise will not be fulfilled until 2010. The DSS has long said, there will never be an opposition to the citizens, but to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Let me tell you one more thing, I don't have a baboon at home, I have a father and mother who are also retired and they want their pension increase to be bigger. We are, of course, to increase pensions, but we will never lie to the citizens of Serbia that something that is impossible to implement is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5743	The word has a folk MP, Zeljko Tomic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5744	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, I also respond, according to Article 104, to Mr. Colakovic and Mr. Konstantin Arsenovic's presentation. You don't even have the right to think you're insulting us because you're older. Start a youth organization, so send them to insult us to be on equal ground, if we're not as you say. What you have to say, and that's why no one consults you. Why aren't you able to do what you said by 2010? By 2010, you will also be sitting here in the Assembly and your Mr. Krkobic in the Serbian Government. You're going to sit down and you're going to be fine yourself. What about our mothers, fathers, grandparents? What's gonna happen to them? Who's going to speak for them? I am obliged to convey to you the position of the pension organization, Mr. Colaković, our and your New Sad, from the Meat Community "Gavrilo Princip" and the "Bistrica" Meat Community, that you do not have the right to hold a monopoly on pensioners' rights and on pension issues. You don't have that right and don't abuse it. In 2010, go out for this pay phone and tell me what you did in a few years, except you've found the crooked roads to justify your existence here and in the Serbian government. You, the few of you, and what about all the pensioners in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5745	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5746	Dear fellow Members of the People, allow me, on behalf of the SRS, to give just one reference to all of this about pensions that we could hear yesterday from the Minister and from the PUPS representatives. I would like to tell the PUPS representatives here in Parliament that they obviously chose the wrong coalition partner, the one who failed to restore the pension fund, and could have been restored. All the privatisation money was pushed into spending, into a budget that had a surplus first, so now it has a deficit, so the government will announce bankruptcy next year. Those of you who made the robbery privatisation, with whom you are now in the coalition, are guilty that the pensioners are living this badly. We're pushing for an increase in pensions. Allow me, in this range of pensions it is impossible to increase the pensions linearly. If we have this much money, this number of pensioners, we have to, given that retirement is a social category, to ensure every pensioner lives a decent man's life. As every pensioner has the right to live such a life, so every man has the right to work, and this government does not allow him, so every man who works expects that his work can live normally, and unfortunately, he can't. [[Applause]] So there are many endangered categories in this society, the entire society is at risk. It's the wrong policy that this government is running, and you're an integral part of that government. So on the inside, you have to influence the government to run exactly the kind of policy that I am to you in the name of the SRS premonition. Remember, pensions are still a social category. Some have had the privilege of working in good businesses, getting good pensions in the end, some with the same expertise, with the same pawnage, perhaps even more professionally, with even more work they eventually had a much smaller pension. Why is that? They all have the same needs when they come in some years and they retire. That's what we want to implement, of course, when, after the next elections, the SRS comes to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5747	The word has the People's MP Velimir Ilic, then Mr. Colakovic, then you, Mr. Aligrudić, then Mr. Buha, then Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5748	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I have come out here to present to the MPs one truth that happened when it was negotiated over the future government, about the coalition that was to be made after the elections. The first meeting was held by the SPS, PUPS and JS, on the one hand, and on the other hand we were Prime Minister Kostunica and I. The pensioners came with a request, categorical – our demands must be met, others promised us. You--you can't? The president of the then government of Kostunica and I said we couldn't; it's not real, there's no way, it's a fairy tale. Mr. Krkobic then announced – gentlemen, Boris Tadic is ready to sign a deal with me, the second increase has been coming since 1 January 2009, we come to 70% of the average income. We said - Mr. Krkobic, please go there, but there's nothing there. And so our conversation ended. Now, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to see Mr. Krkobic here. And I repeat, shame on you, Krkobabiæ, you cheat on unfortunate pensioners! You have fostered your family and you should be ashamed of yourselves before Serbia, shame on you, shame on you from your age! You brought the family, you brought the son, come and bring the grandkid and bring the dogs, he can guard the government! How can you not be ashamed?- I'm sorry. Are you ashamed today when those unfortunate don't have the bread to eat, die, can't buy the pressure medicine, and you, here, how much pay you have, what pensions do you have, shame on you?- I'm sorry. I'm not ashamed to tell you that. [[Applause]] Why? Unlucky pensioners bought it. Peasants, pensioners, how many pensions do they have? How dare you lie to Serbia?- I'm sorry. How is it not a shame for the other vice president to share the actions he doesn't have? And I repeat, be ashamed and do not lie to this people! Be correct. A man can't? We said, "No, it's not possible." "He who lies to you that it's possible, go with him." Now you move in two years, let's not change anything for life, and you stay and survive and talk fairy tales here to take care of the pensioners! Poor Serbia with you! You destroyed the pension funds. Who was sitting there? I'm not. We've been fighting for the sociale all the time, and we'll keep fighting. We will fight not to be linear increases and that those who are below 15,000 will rise up to that threshold so that they can live decently, to spend their last years and last days decently, so that they can survive, not to embarrass themselves under the old days. (President: Time. So, Mr. Retired, head up! Those who represent you are fairy tales, they're not your real representatives and we'll show it in the next election. Let's not lie to this people, let's be honest, when something can't, there's no point. It's no shame to say – it's not real, it can't, it can't. And that's what we said. I'm proud that we were categorical... (President: Please bring the end. )......................................................................................................... That we didn't want to deceive the people, which we said, he can't. We told the actions that the fairy tale -- to divide five billion euros as shares, five million citizens of Serbia. We told Dinkic at the government that there was nothing of it, and he said - 100%. (President: Time, Mr. Ilich. Come out now and tell the people what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5749	Momo Colakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5750	Dear Minister, honourable Members of the People, respected pensioners of Serbia, here you have seen the presentation of the current minister - and believe me or him. What we have now is the work of a minister who spoke earlier, butt-scared, and that's why we're in such a situation. That's why there are 40,000 pensioners who have pensions below 10,000 and 900,000 below 19,000 and so on. Not to mention the social status of the pensioners. Where are the pensioners? In which authority, in which assembly, in which parliament, in which board of directors, what have they been doing so far? They were at the dump! We now have over 1,500 members of the governing body and other bodies. It's the truth about pensioners so far. Now he's still moving better. I assure the pensioners it'll be better. Pensions are up 10%, pensions are up, and they're going to be bigger, so be assured of that! Regarding Mr. Tomic's exposure, I'm just inviting him to go together to the New Sad Pensioners' Association and to clarify our views, nothing more. I agree with Gordan. [[What about Gordana?]] In the end, I just want to say the only thing we disagree on is that pensions aren't a social category. It's not a social category, it's a earned pension. The one who invested more, the one who gets more. We're taking action now. Take an example of Belgrade, an example of Jagodina, every pensioner wins quarterlyly, those who have the lowest pensions get some help. Please, I'm asking you to keep your dignity and let go of the scarcity regarding the pensioners' statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5751	Mr. Aligrudic, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5752	I have the right to a replica at the same time. Mr. Colakovic, you reacted to my presentation by claiming that you were offended and that you said that my exposure offended your dignity or I don't know whose dignity. Are you aware that you and the Socialist Party of Serbia, whose unbreakable part you were, this PUPS and this whole story is a colorful lie, that you've been ruining this Serbia for years and that what you've been doing with this country since 1990 and beyond, in fact, is a real insult to all of us? Unlike some others who make love to you today, shake hands, sign "relational declarations", we, with the Socialist Party of Serbia, have at one point made a political agreement on the support of the minority government, because it was necessary at that moment and no pedal more than that. The product of your love, the product of what you do is just, and exclusively, lies. The lie is your child, the lie is the product of your love, because everything you've said so far in the election campaign and today is nothing but a bunch of lies. What pensions, what pension increase to the level of 70% by the end of the year? Well, it was clear to the little kid that it wasn't possible. And then you're saying that others are not interested in solving your problem. Well, Mr. Colakovic, my mother is 72 years old and is very interested in solving this problem. I'm just wondering what the four of you, the five of you, are doing here. What are your pensions? Do you receive wages in this National Assembly? (President: Please allow us to hear Mr Aligrudic.) ( b) There is something else about insulting. If pensions are not a social category, there are citizens of this country who are in a state of social need, many of them and those who cannot protect themselves, such as children without parental ageing, such as adult persons who do not have the means of maintenance and are not able to work. There are a lot of people who are in a state of social need that you haven't thought about for a moment because you don't care about that. In order to lead a serious policy, both social policy and pension policy of the state, there must be a serious political stance and there must be a comprehensive policy understanding by political actors, which you certainly are not. You're part of that system, you're the ones who hurt all of us younger than you and hurt us for decades to come. And you claim that we are insulting you here. Well, I haven't said a word of insult to you, except for what I'm about to say to you, which was said for a moment, shame upon you!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5753	Mr. Milorad Buha, then Velija Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are all well aware of the legal provision of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is clear in terms of the amount of pension that is determined on the basis of the average salary. The PUPS gentlemen take part in the government and they know that provision very well – 60% of the average salary. You're complaining here that the last payment was 53%. Earlier payments ranged from 50 to 55-56%. Just on this basis, pensioners lose one salary. You're the government. You of this authority in which you participate must demand payment of at least 60%, what is the provision of the law. And why aren't you looking for that? Furthermore, inflation in our society is large, the seventh month last year – the seventh month of this year, 10.5%. That's where we lose this 10% increase. You said increase, no increase. objectively, realistically, what's worth eating inflation, this increase, but for the last quarter alone, our inflation is 10.5%. Real cost of living, rising prices to a little over 25%. Food prices went 25%, 30-35%. Here, I'll tell you right away: the goods of broad consumption went 25%, meat, certain meat categories 35%, between 25% and 35%, oil 25%, and flour and flour products 35%, gas 60%, telecommunications services, etc. So we say, this is a socially irresponsible government, and you, gentlemen of the PUPS, think carefully, can you carry on your shoulders this burden you've taken over? You're serious people, you're in serious years, when you talk about these things then think about the totality of the pension system. You don't participate in making the most vital decisions, you don't make those decisions, you withdraw. Or you're applying a legal provision, which is what it is right now, at least 60%. You allow every pension payment below 60%. Why? That's what you have to explain to the pensioners and tell the people why you went into power, why you cheated on your voters. This is a voter scam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5755	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5756	People's MPs, I wanted to replicate to the gentleman who told some lies here. We take care of pensioners, and that's why we behave like this, because we're responsible people. Don't pretend to be a government on fraud, the government has to be on sound ground. People who enter the government, and especially to the most responsible functions, being vice president of the government today is a big deal. To give the word and now not to fulfill, until two days ago speak – it must be fulfilled otherwise there is no Government, and now to turn tail and say – can, behold, me and my boyfriend will be satisfied, and you will surely be satisfied. Therefore, it's a shame, it's a disgrace, it's never allowed by this government. That is why I call on Mr. Krkobbić, otherwise my good friend, whom I have known for years, and who has told me a hundred times – will meet, will fill. Now, my Krkobic, I told you that there is nothing of it, I told you in the beginning, when we negotiated about the government, that there is nothing of it, I told you that these are your beautiful wishes and your boyfriend sitting in the government of the city of Belgrade – don't tell fairy tales, come out and be realistic, tell the people the truth. And those poor and unhappy pensioners who cannot survive, you see how they live in Leban, Kursumlia, how they live in Medvedja, in southern Serbia, what their pensions are, see Loznica, Viskoza, Zvornik, Prepolje. Take them on a trip from Vrnjačka spa, the largest tourist center, to show them the zoo, give them a drink of beer and a sandwich. It's a shame! The pensioner needs a pension and he doesn't need your package chain and one day you walk him on a bus to see Serbia. They know that very well, they need pensions to buy their grandkids something to make a decent life; to pay for electricity, to pay for gas, which cost 60%. You've heard what's been accumulated here, and pensions have been increased, and half of the collection can't cover it. Please be serious. I don't want to be with you. I want to replicate. The three or four of you sitting here have huge receipts. You don't know what pain, misfortune and poverty are. You don't know peasants how they live, pensioners, how their pensions are. They can't afford a pension or a bag of fertilizer to buy. That's true. Therefore, beware of what you say because the people listen well and remember it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5757	The word is Mr. Batic, and the next is Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many here wanted to be in a coalition with SPS and PUPS. When that didn't come true, now it's not worth the fuss. Whoever loses has the right to be angry! And whoever plantes pumpkins with the devil, their heads are pounding! On the other hand, the fact is that this government does not keep its promises. Dear colleagues from the PUPS, Mr. Krkobic made some promises to the pensioners. Those promises are not fulfilled. Only two principles are important in modern democracies: responsibility and exchangeability. When you fail to keep your promise, you are leaving, and it is time for Mr. Krkobic to resign because he did not keep his promise. Apparently pensions increased 10%, and did they really increase 10%? The dinar has already devalued over 10%. So there's nothing. Say, how many thousands of pensioners or tens of thousands of pensioners live as second-class citizens, so they expect a laptop, left somewhere to die, sweep through containers, wander through folk kitchens, and then false promises. Here is a false object that is bound for 50 or 60 years. Then you have another Deputy Prime Minister, Dinkic, who should have left a long time ago. He promised, it has already been repeated a hundred times, for five million citizens of the 1,000-euro stock. Now both he and Krkobic have been looking forward to the global financial crisis to delay their promises – 'not a little donkey, to green grass'! On the other hand, they say the global financial crisis will work positively on Serbia. Wait, who's making me crazy here? Or, the third vice president, Mr. Djelic promised by the end of the year that we would be on the White Schengen list.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5759	Gentlemen, you're interrupting the speaker. Please, I'm going to start voicing measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5760	Did Mr Djelic promise that we would be on the white Schengen list? Did he promise that by the end of the year we would be candidates for EU membership? Yes, it is. Is that promise fulfilled? It's not. Dacic's lurking along the bypasses, but he doesn't go after the court's call, these are all examples of irresponsibleness. These are examples of an irresponsible government. All vice presidents, if this was a country where responsibility and responsibilities were respected, they would have to leave, resign, and before all Mr. Krkobic, who has deceived pensioners. I don't want to embarrass anyone, but he's fooled the pensioners. His promise is not fulfilled. Now it's not worth saying why the promise isn't fulfilled, I'm sorry, there's objective responsibility, even if there's no subjective responsibility, and then it's said – thank you, goodbye.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5761	Mr. Free Maras has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5762	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the PUPS, are not the only ones representing the interests of the pensioners, or other parties in their programmes, in their efforts to make it possible for pensioners to live better, as we talked about yesterday. However, what Mr. Colakovic said earlier, I allow that I have misunderstood, but from what I understand, you have noted that things are changing and that today we have pensioners on boards and on certain prominent functions, public functions. That's why you showed that everything you're saying is the opposite of that. Yesterday I mentioned that you had good intentions to help the pensioners, you had to take care of those who are the most vulnerable, who have a minimum pension. Now you mentioned that 1,500 people were taken care of. What about the other million and 400 grand you mentioned? What about them? They're not taken care of. They won't get better. I think the whole story avoids the essential question – why were pension funds empty and who was responsible for it? And that's what we talked about yesterday. The government of the '90s led to that. All parties share promises before the elections. The opposition is not in a position to keep those promises for the simple reason that it is not in a position to participate in the executive government, but those who participate in the executive government, it is you, you must fulfill your promises otherwise irresponsible. There's a solution to that. I don't think it's necessary to raise a lot of tension here. There's a solution. We have a budget rebalance. Don't back him up. Show that this 10% is nothing. Don't support budget rebalancing. I think it's about that -- either you've been fooled, so there won't be an increase of 70%, or you've let down voters. The only honorable solution and getting out of it is – do not support budget rebalancing, and especially do not vote for the 2009 budget, because there will be no increase that is an essential part of your programme. So you show that you're responsible, so you show that you care about the interests of the pensioners, and not just about the interests of those 1,500 people you mentioned, who have arrested themselves, and for others who have minimal pensions or slightly greater than that, you've shown that you don't have much understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5763	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5764	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come to the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 104, which says, "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect." Here, from the pay phone, we have heard too harsh words that are not suitable for this home and this position, where messages and political nature are broadcast, but also cultural messages. Do the messengers respect each other if they speak these words from each other? Shame on you, though you are not ashamed; you should be ashamed, etc. Of course, there are times when words can be heard and much harder. Surely there are many other words in Serbian that are shaped and defined by truth. It doesn't take one such way to address one another, and that's normative here regulated, we have to take care of it. The SPS is trying to be a proper partner in all the political affairs we do. It's happened in the past, and I think it'll show up on this occasion. Mentioning the SPS in a negative context with the worst qualifications only speaks of those who say those words. I would remind the political parties that have relied on the SPS in the past that the SPS and how it has been a good partner and a good political party, with whom a minority government has been formed in the past. There is no need to qualify the SPS in such a way, because such words do not speak of it but speak of those who pronounce them. About that, of course, those we worked with, who we were friends with, who we were in love with in the past, we speak nice words and look at the better side of life and what it was. We don't talk about ex-love in an ugly way. As for some of the political parties who react this way here, I think they're taking a diaper from the SRS. I don't think I'm pinking the SRS, far from it, but simply, by intonation, by the way it's performed, by logic, it's a sign of equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5765	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5766	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Before that, Mr. Miletic, why is the truth an insult? The truth hurts, and then it's interpreted as an insult? Mr. Colakovic, I remember very well, unlike some in 1992 and 1993 and 1994 and 1995, who was one of the leaders of the pension insurance system? I remember that time because as a specialist doctor, I had a salary of 25 marks at the time, and my mother, by the way, retired, had three stamps at the time. By the time he got paid, and by the time he got there to pick it up, it wasn't even three stamps anymore, it was one and a half or a half marks. You're talking about a 10% increase. Don't talk about raising the cost of your life. We're slowly traveling in that direction. You're talking about the Socially Responsible Government and it hurts when someone tells you that you should be ashamed of that time, and you should be ashamed. What did you promise in the previous campaign? We didn't promise that. We were completely realistic and aware of the complete state of affairs. So, with those you've promised so much pension increase, you can deal with them now and go out and tell about this pay phone right now, are you up for this budget rebalance? Let's get to the bottom of this. But that's right, when the government's policy is to buy giraffes and seals from the government's budget -- then there's no money for pensions. This is the policy of the socially responsible government. You're not in a dispute with us, we're not against raising pensions and we fully understand what our pensioners are in today, but your Deputy Prime Minister said there's nothing out of it in the next two or three years. Well, when will it be, 2015, 2020. A year?- I'm sorry. And until then, Mr. Krkobic will be Deputy Prime Minister, and his son, as a family manufacturer, will be deputy mayor of Belgrade. Now, that's the policy that will be led by PUPS, or a few PUPS officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5767	Momo Colaković, then Žika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5768	Dear Presidents, the working presidency, the honourable minister, the honourable MPs, on behalf of the Parliament group, we will stop advertising the replica and violation of the Rules of Procedure, because some MPs have had the strength to harm our dignity and dignity of this assembly. We protest these exhibitions and reject all the insinuations they have brought here, especially our dignity and our morals. And former ministers, we're not going to comment on that, which has been here in government for eight years, they've just brought pensioners into the situation they're in right now. The laws were passed in 2003 and 2005, especially in the 2005 Law, and what are we talking about here now? Pensions are up, and what if they weren't that 10%? It would be 4.3%. Let's wait for a new law that's being prepared in the government, and then we'll talk about whether that second PUPS promise is fulfilled? Then help us make it happen, because you're all up for a better life for a pensioner, no matter what option you're in. None of us have been in power since 1990, and everyone here who spoke, especially ministers, has been in power. About the Fund, none of us have ever been to the Fund. No one was involved in lawmaking. The collapse of the system is, I agree with Mr Dimitrijevic, started in 1992, but was disastrously continued in 2000, 2001, 2003 and 2005. We need to make it right, and we need to help with the current coalition partner to fix it. That's the point, those who didn't want their options, their definitions, and that's another thing. In particular, I must underline that the former minister should not speak of his friend, as he has declared here. I thank you, and I will never answer my word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5769	Mr. Zika Gojkovic, then Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5770	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertise, as well as most of my predecessors, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, has injured the dignity of this assembly on several occasions. Almost every other MP who went out for this speaker today has hurt the dignity of this Assembly, but what is more important, several times the dignity of all our citizens, all those who have suffered these 20 years of various tortures, survive the day after day, watching whether their families will be able to survive for a month or a week, whether the salaries they have received will be enough to feed their families. In the context of this, we have heard all sorts of things behind this pay phone today, the most demagogy that is repeated year after year, from session to session, and even in this new assembly. The bottom line is, the truth is, everyone sitting here had a chance to fight for pensioners and to be socially endangered. Everyone was in power and the citizens see very clearly how much who did and how much who wanted to do it. It's very distasteful when someone who was in power comes out for this pay phone yesterday and burns down the trees and stones on someone who's now taken responsibility and wants to do something concrete. It's been said that we fought for the welfare system. How? It is important to make it clear to people once – by stealing a little bit, by buying locomotives over the buty of friends, by making a variety of robberies on payment ramps, and by repairing roads, no sign of a voice. It's very nice to see more serious and older people who speak with passion for this speaker, but speaking scarred can also be a problem for health. I can only say one thing, and that's what the SPO and the options I represent, we will support every smart and correct proposal concerning improving the status of pensioners and on improving all socially endangered citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5771	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5772	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for an article. 101st and 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the words that are offensive to not only some MPs are spoken to this speaker, are offensive to all the parliamentary groups, and what is even worse, are offensive to the whole categories of our citizens. So, this pay phone offends all pensioners in the most harsh way possible, forgetting that there are retired doctors of science, professors, teachers, engineers, people who have built this country and cannot bear collective responsibility or guilt for policies that may have been wrong and whose price they may be paying most today. Please, Madam President, direct those speakers who are no longer in power by insulting others, to warn them that it is unacceptable for these speakers to insult colleagues in this assembly, as well as Serbian citizens. I think it's completely excessive to comment on what someone who was in the government until three months ago, five years ago, and when they're crying for this pay phone over the hard fate of a pensioner, there's only one logical question being asked -- what did you do for five years, so it doesn't? In three months, we couldn't fix it, but we're sure that in the years that come they'll do anything to fix what was the consequences of bad policies in the past. One more thing, everyone has been able to see by now that we never defend the government, that when governments express reasonable, argumentated criticism, we believe that our job is not to get in the middle of a controversy with MPs who make such criticism. We think it is good for the government to hear what people think or what they think differently, even though they are wrong, but when they attack and when people think about such an inadmissible level, we will always respond and ask you, Madam President, that, using the Rules of Procedure, you react to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5773	Mrs. Kolundzija, the MPs have had that vocabulary they had, and many of them sit in Parliament or in the government for a long time, and in the previous period. I really ask you, in the same way that you did, to respect the dignity of the citizens of Serbia, our government, the president of the state, ourselves here, and it is quite possible for us to give criticism and suggestions to the chosen words. I'd like to say that there's a business opportunity for me to express measures in the event of incorrect your verbalization. However, your verbalization is the style of your political life and I fear that those who do so are, indeed, very bad at the reputation of their own parliamentary group and party. Mr. Milan Lapčević. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5774	Madam Chairman, I agree that the Rules of Procedure of Rule 104 have been broken several times here and that dignity and MPs, as well as the National Assembly, as well as the citizens of Serbia, have been repeatedly violated. Mrs. Kolundjia, I can fully agree with you there. I'm just asking you, is the dignity of both the citizens of Serbia and the MPs being violated even when you tell a lie? I don't mean you specifically, but whoever makes promises, then after two or three months he says, "I'm sorry, we won't be able to, the system is unsustainable, we'll see, in the coming years we'll do everything." Well, then you say the next thing -- it's very sad when someone here is crying, and he's been in the government until yesterday. Mrs. Kolundjia, where were you, or your MP group and the party you represent, how many years was she in power? Were you in power until this election? What did you do? It's not about that, it's about the whole story of the last two or three hours being reduced to PUPS. They probably rightly asked to improve pensioners' standards. That's just fine, and there's not a single parliamentary group that doesn't support those attitudes. You deceived them by accepting what was impossible. The system is unsustainable. It is impossible to increase so much deficit in the budget, which is already equivalent to 45 billion, for the next pension increase, with this kind of employment, with the lost funds, it is impossible to do it further without having to do a state break or an additional borrowing or, possibly, what you are preparing by increasing Telecom's price, selling Telecom, and then replacing that deficit in the budget. It's just that the system can't take it. Serbia's economy and those who generate income can't handle it. They can't pay. We have a million unemployed, a million and a half pensioners, 500,000 people, and you're constantly increasing, employees of the state administration, which is the cost. So somebody's got to make that money so they can get paid, and that can't stand it. A million and a half people still run to work in the economy can't make that much money to cover all the demands of the state, and those who don't work, and employees in the public administration, and pensioners. Pensioners need to improve their position, but above all, the most endangered of which there are over 400,000, which have monthly incomes below 10,000. Can you live with that? He can't! But why do you increase the linearity of everyone? There are 100,000 or 200,000 who receive over 80,000, so they will receive another 10,000 on their 80, and, say, my father has 8,000 pensions, he will receive 800 dinars; his phone subscription is 250 and 300 dinars, so much he's spent his pulse so far, it's going to be 600 dinars, so he's going to eat his total increase, the 800 dinars, just an increase in Telecom service.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5775	The People's Messenger Milorad Buha, then Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard here from the PUPS representatives that they're moving towards a reform of pension insurance. Before you go into reform, you have very good legal positions and a law that currently allows you to make a regular payment of 60% of the average salary. No payout during this year and in previous years was 60%. Why don't you insist on it? That's the basic question. You can't talk to your coalition partners, that's the problem. You have a legal basis, insist on that legal basis! This 10% increase melted, I said, because inflation has been over 10% since the eighth month of last year, eight months this year. All that goes around harmonising is too little to make up for the price of life. Pensioners live in real life, real-life prices are far higher than official inflation. She's far bigger than you're realistically showing her. So pensioners lose one pension just because they don't pay off the legal basis. One pension eats inflation and realistically, what pensioners get every year, that's ten, fifteen, and maybe more percent, less than what they're really supposed to get. That's what you have to open up the story about. The reform you're talking about, it's time ahead of us, but what you really have in front of you, is a legal basis, insist on it, and you'll help the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5777	Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5778	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, and I, too, think that the dignity of the Assembly has been injured, but because some of our colleagues and colleagues have been trying to cloud the essence and the truth here. Just so we don't forget what we started with and how it started. Mr. Colakovic came out and said that he, as head of the Parliament Group, I don't know which time, but no one consults and that he has nothing to do with some agenda and some of the topics that are here. Then citizens can imagine what happens to MP groups belonging to the opposition. And I, Mr. Colakovic, have attended several consultations where you have been expressing some of your complaints on the premises and I support it all. Therefore, you should have insisted that you first get an answer from the president to that question. As far as pensions are concerned, since we all have mothers and fathers and relatives and friends, we should be honest here. It is true that you as a Parliament group, or as a party, represent pensioners and do so very honestly, but you represent 10% of that layer of pensioners who have many large pensions. That's what this is about. We're trying to point that out, but then Mrs. Kolundji comes out who says she doesn't like the cabular of some, and she doesn't really talk about the essence of what's going on here. It is true that those who had higher salaries and more invested in pension funds should also have higher pensions. That's normal, but you said you belonged to a socially responsible and just government. It's not fair, sir, that whoever has 8,000 gets 800 dinars. His pension has already been reduced over the past month through these gatherings that have been instructed here by people. How will they live? You know, who has a pension of 70,000 gets another pension, how many these martyrs have, and you know very well that there are nearly 500,000. So, you're not representing them, you should clearly tell the citizens. You represent those who already have large pensions. And that's your right, both legally and legally and politically, but don't be angry if we point out that, because many pensioners voted for DSS and New Serbia. If we really passed on the dictionary they used these days, you'd see that what you heard about the pay phone was very mild and raised. I can tell you that in one sentence. They say, "Don't defend us anymore. Ever since you started defending us, we've been even worse! ''And you, Mrs. Kolundzija, to what you pointed out, you had a wonderful opportunity last week, I'm surprised you missed it, to react in that style when there was a minister here, Mrs. Dragutinovic, slowed down the percentage of poor people in Serbia, said – that 35% would have been in the New Cemetery! That's an amazing statement, and I haven't heard that since 2001, since I've been here in the Assembly. (President: Time. ) Then you missed the chance to be principled, to go out and say it's gaff, that it's an unnecessary statement, that it's a current emotional statement, and that we trust you to speak honestly today. Otherwise, what you said here is considered simple politicizing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5779	Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Just one notification: Mr. Maras is a representative of the LDP parliamentary group, Mr. Krasic – SRS. Mrs. Elvira Kovac, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5780	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you've been attacking us for free for days. On the agenda, in a united debate in principle, two laws and a representative of the government do not want to say a single word about these laws. That's what the public needs to know. Why doesn't a government official want to talk about these laws? He has nothing to say, because any word the government representative would use for these bill proposals would be joining the Serbian Radical Party in charges against the Government of the Republic of Serbia and would be an accusation of all that has been done since 25 January 2001, when "the first democratic government" was formed. Dear citizens of Serbia, you are the victims of a "little one". It's said in the jargon, "I've suffered from a small one," and it's meant to be a little brandy, but usually men say "from a small one," and it's meant to be a woman. You, pensioners, were killed in 2003, when a small one, Gordana Matkovic, came and invented a new hole in the pot. That's when the pension system took off. What you're saying is "oh-ho," it's just proof you don't know anything. It's a common thing, don't be angry. [[Applause]] What I told you, that's what everyone in Serbia and abroad says. You know absolutely nothing! By order of the IMF, our entire social system has been destroyed. It was destroyed because it was said that all of this should be financed from real sources – and then there was the adjustment of the other side, not only the ones where the pension and health insurance rights are, and these two laws treat it, however, this one also treats interest on unpaid taxes and you want to freeze it from 31.12.2007 and, in practice, you put something wrong on our agenda. For what? Voted "yes", voted "against," the situation was exactly the same. If these two laws aren't on the agenda, the situation will be exactly the same. Why? You won't be able to finish something that's impossible. If these two laws are passed, nothing good will happen. Why? It's proof that your entire system has fallen, your fiscal policy has fallen, completely. Let me remind you, there's no shit that jumped in 2001 or something. They should come here, and Djelic and Dinkic, Vlahovic escaped, Cvetkovic then led the privatisation, headed by Boris Tadic, to explain how it is possible that someone could not verify the health book and is in a working relationship? How is it possible for a company to operate according to European standards since 2001, well, here, today, well, tomorrow, without paying contributions to health insurance? How is it possible for someone to make a tax on corporate profits and not pay taxes, so he's got interest, so now we need to get rid of interest? Dinkic still thought of it and said that all these releases would be if they started paying off these current obligations, so if someone doesn't pay the current commitments, well, then, what's frozen with 31.12 doesn't apply to him. How is that possible? How is it possible for a man to work with the police to retire and he has to wait six months for a pension solution? Because the state didn't pay contributions to pension-involvement insurance? If the state does not pay pension-involvement insurance for employees in the state administration, it is widely observed, it is not only 20 and a few thousand, it is the whole 260 thousand, which in the state, which in the para-state authorities, there are all educational workers, there is complete health care, all of what you have talked about yesterday, and said that it is almost 260 thousand employees, if one of them does not pay a contribution for pension-inhabited insurance a month for the month, whether on the basis or on the basis of how you share it, then the state has no right to chase down a hairdresser, a mechanic or any other who has not made the payment of contributions. You have no right. How can one who breaks the law go after the others?- I'm sorry. It's impossible. But it's the sun of your understanding of life, of your understanding of politics, of your understanding that the EU represents one tree, and you just have to stand under a tree, shake one branch, and it'll all be filled. Still waiting at the border six and a half billion, people, you didn't bring in, or did you steal, what happened?- I'm sorry. You said honey and milk, only we Democrats to come to power, Europe loves us, the world loves us, they treat you like partners, not opponents. Draskovic sat here and said, "Peace! The UN will take care of the Serbs at KIM. Everything will be in the best order, just to sell these companies." You've sold companies, you've got nothing to sell anymore. And the system went down. How is it possible that someone does not pay in your democratic tax system, how is it possible that they do not pay contributions to PIO and how is it possible that they do not pay contributions to health insurance, why people cannot verify the book? There is another side – for nothing he has confirmed the book, he has to pay for it again. So you've continued, and you've deepened that system so that a man can work 35 years in a company, regardless of the company's own structure, he can be a foreigner now, and he can't verify the health book. She goes to work regularly, gets some church girl, but she doesn't have health care. How is that possible in democracy? How is that possible in your dreams? This reality cannot cover "Today", "B92", "Studio B", "RTS", "Blic", "Glas" and all the media controlled by America, England and other states, which will never be proletarian. How is that possible? How did that get away with you? How did that happen? Now we're gonna talk numbers. You wrote in this law, which refers to contributions to health insurance, that total debts on the basis of outstanding and unpaid contributions to compulsory health insurance are 42 billion dinars. If you had 42 billion, would something be better? No, you wouldn't. Why? Because it's headed by the Tomica ministry -- "The Bag," G17 plus. If you want to work in health care, you have to be a member of G17 plus. End of story. You've got to get into the drug dealer, find a sponsor to go to counseling, if you're an expert in the field of health, to track down new technology, it's gotta be built into the supply of scanners and not order any further. And where's the fuse? He's gone. Yesterday we heard, seven times more expensive, we pay for medicines in Serbia that are made in Serbia. What is this system of yours? Where on the globe there is such a system that you've created, and that is advertised by Americans through your ambassadors, the English through their ambassadors, via Bilda, RTS, 'B92', 'Today', 'Blic', and push everything in order, and the columnist contributes to it. Where? Citizens of Serbia, follow the National Assembly sessions, because here you will hear the cruel truth about life in Serbia, and this life is created by Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic is the main creator. You won the election, he kept his promise, what he signed, he signed. Will it come true? It won't happen. He signed with the pensioners. It's all right. You've all done well. You can't convince anyone of that. Now, let's say, in Vrnjačka Banja, one party will spend millions of dinars to trick the citizens, and they will try the Književec, so they will try in Ruma, and they will try in Prepolje. You'll fool people everywhere because you're living a lie. Whoever's lying and stealing, who's going to jail, who's going to jail, who's got fleas. That's our problem. Boove is running the country! The IMF gives little credit, and then it says -- it can't be touched from the budget, social, no, it has to be from real sources. And then two bills of law came in which it clearly stands, and we missed everything. We didn't create a consistent system that could work. Well, one year we have a surplus, and another year we have a deficit. Deficit, deficit. And you win. In a moment, order with Ms. Sonja Licht or through her husband an opinion survey – three times stronger, four times stronger. Force! Where is this force? Force because she put her hand in someone else's pocket. He steals these from abroad, and he steals the citizens of Serbia the most. How is it possible not to pay taxes, please explain. There must be interest, so on the basis of interest, you said there was 15 billion debt. You haven't read the explanation? I read it, there you go. This one you said 42 billion, 42 billion, and 15 that's 57. How much is our budget deficit? You said 45. Your system doesn't exist! Please, it's just us that exists and nowhere on the globe of Earth; a man comes from abroad and says, "I'd like to make one plant in the meadow (as you say in English, green)." Then a minister shows up and says, "You'll get everything by a lot of great terms, we'll even give it to you for every future employee so much and so much money." Where's that? Can you explain it to me? Where is a two million dinar ficus, a 800 dinar spoon, where does it exist? There's a government run by DS. It's not an insult, Mr. Micunovic, it's numbers, it's facts. That's the facts. We have pensioners. And Olja Bećkovic is a disabled pensioner. She's not in a position like the parent of one of these here. It's not. And Neda Arneric was retired, she retired in November 2000, and was treated afterwards in Bodrum, etc. You've mutilated everything. The whole system. How is it possible for someone not to pay taxes next to such a sharp, sharp saber, Dinkic, how is that possible? Now, ma'am, you're running that resort, I mean, widerly, how is it possible not to pay taxes in this democratic state? And what happens if one of those who is obliged to pay contributions, taxes, health contributions, contributions to PIO or pay this interest that you have calculated? He's probably locked up because he doesn't pay, because he doesn't have the funds. And what is this economic environment in which he needs to make funds? These are all costs from the firm's point of view. Can he cover that cost? He can't. Why can't he? Because the market is monopolised and because it comes in from abroad and everything and you've made a nice confession. In the 2008 Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, you said that on the basis of the VAT, you would collect three times as much for goods coming from abroad as they are produced on our market. You stimulate imports. When imports are not stimulated, when a large budget is created, a payment deficit with abroad, that means in translation, you put this market on the table. Who? It's abroad. Or, to be more specific, you've put on the agenda representatives of some abroad companies that are in Serbia. There's Gilas, there's your Shaffer, he's selling those candy, chocolates, like these other tycoons. And who are you representing? Tycoon! To preserve it, I forgot this picture now, Boris Tadic visited Goc Tomislav Nikolic, and gave him the money, and you saw the pictures he made of him. Now you have made your own party, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Boris's money, American money, English money, you have made your own party to prevent this from being heard, who is destroying this country, this people and vital interests. And then again, somebody's gonna hit it again. We won! I agree, and that means fraud, that means you cheated. You've only been able to cheat. Why? All media are under the control of America, England and all proven enemies of the Serb people. Now Javier Solana is good, now Ollie Ren is good, now all Americans are good, now you will deliver our citizens there. Now you've cracked so much, you have to pay the costs to witnesses who go to The Hague, you're paying the prosecution's witnesses. And you care about ending this story, rounding up the story of "dirty work against the Serbian people". By adopting these draft laws or by voting against these draft laws, nothing will happen positively in our country. If not voted, the process will continue to be that not only does this government not have the strength but it has no theoretical ability to charge those interest and to make someone pay. And you made a bill on health care and health insurance that you made a medical book out of birth certificates. Explain to people, 30 and a few years, a man pays for health insurance, where's that money? A man pays 30, 40 years for PIO. Where's the money?- I'm sorry. If there's no money, what about his rights? You don't admit it. I wouldn't be surprised if Dinkic came out in a few days and said, "retirement, cost!" For what? The cost of the fund, the cost of the state as well. What do we do? Let's cancel our pensions, 'cause we're out of pensions. Then Boris Tadic will say we have an addition. Which one? Anyone who hits a pensioner gets one-time aid of 2,000 euros! That's what you're ready to do. You are not interested in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia at all. [[Applause]] You're interested in the focus of the group. The popularity, is the Italian stallion, is Rocky Marcano, is Rocky this one, the villas on Santa, the villas on the Senjak, the houses here. That's what you're interested in folding, stealing this people, and a little bit more to steal. That's what Boris Tadic gave Tommy Nikolic. And you're saving him for it, please! Finally, something, to take the opportunity, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Yesterday it was 28.10.2008, at 18.05 p.m. Tomislav Nikolic entered this hall and sent me a message: "I hear you talking everywhere and out loud that I'm the dog you kicked out of the session. Stop! "I don't interpret this as a threat. He has no one to threaten. You can see when you see these pictures that he knows he has nothing to look for here. On Palillula, we get our councilmen back, people come back everywhere, he cheats them all, they're still being held by Boris Tadic. Why? To complete the dirty work with Serbia and the Serb people on the US order, to bring as much confusion as possible and to create conditions to help the murder of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. I don't call them, I call Boris Tadic, and I call you people who know all this and keep your mouth shut. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5781	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first Mr Dimitrijevic and then Mrs Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5782	I thank you, Madam President, I opened one topic in the afternoon yesterday, and now I am asking you as a parliamentary question and I am asking the competent institutions to answer that question. I ask: 1) Is it accurate that certain pharmaceutical houses in Serbia sell medicines at prices that are up to seven times higher than in neighbouring Montenegro? 2) Is it true that the Republic Health Insurance Office does not open a tender for the purchase of drugs? If it's true, why is that? ( 3) In what business are the Republic Institute for Health Insurance, Great Drugs, and Pharmacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5783	You know, strictly speaking, these were no-temporary questions, but it can also be understood as a need to inform yourself that you could continue to follow. All right, but it was supposed to be staged in that form. Mrs. Jankovic, here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5784	Articles 225 and 226. I come from the Palace of Justice, where I met with the family and friends of our young basketball player Miladin Kovacevic, who was arrested and taken to the US citizen Brian Steinhower on the night of June 4th to 5th this year. This guy, who was a model athlete and a political science student in America, spent a month in one of the most notorious American prisons, with fierce criminals and murderers, like in the worst American movies of "ce production", in which everything is so disgusting that almost nobody believes it's real. The court was brought to justice with chains on its feet, and there was a bail of $100,000, while the other two suspects were released with a bail of $5,000 and $10,000 and, of course, not until after 25 days. His life and his family's life were seriously at stake. The American media portrayed young Kovacevic as a psychopath who smokes tompus and wears a kalashnikov. Would that really be possible at a college camp in America? They called it "Serbian garbage," and they systematically abused the family, connecting it to the "Balkan butcher Milosevic" and "red berets" because they, my God, are from The Tower. The family was both psychologically and physically and financially ruined because they had to mortgage the house to pay and collect this bail money. Miladin Kovacevic's mother, Branka, is a neuropsychiatrist and a court expert, has been trying to obtain data on the medical condition of the alleged victim Brian Steinhower, but also on her, as well as other experts of our origin, it has been impossible to find out what the real situation is. Realistically, due to serious drug and alcohol abuse toxicities, the young American concerned has been brought into a state of induced coma that he came out of and how functional he is. I have no intention of meddling in the investigation process, but it is necessary to say in what position our citizen, who returned to Serbia on June 10th, is the state that can only provide him with constitutionally guaranteed rights. Since then, until yesterday, when he was detained and taken away in the early hours of morning, again as a dangerous criminal, at the police station on November 29th, Miladin Kovacevic was available to our authorities and investigating authorities, publicly showing his willingness to initiate a procedure in his country of origin in which he could prove his innocence. The fact that he is physically strong, this young man was not in any way abused, it wasn't even about self-defense, it was about defending the other two participants in this fight. Yesterday, late in the evening, Miladin Kovacevic and Consul Nenadovic were detained for up to 30 days. With that in mind, I have questions for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. First, why was it waiting for the trial to begin in Serbia, and how is it that the foreign ministry is now delivering the case to Miladin Kovacevic, when he was both available to the police and the judicial authorities of the Serbian state since 10 June, when he returned from America? Secondly, is this a moment resulting from the dictatorships of our judiciary, without the wish of our citizen to initiate a procedure in which he would have had the chance to prove his innocence? Is the U.S. court here acting as supranational to our judicial system and waiting to see if the punishment will be sufficiently draconian, so that they can take the case again? (President: Time. ) According to international standards, proceedings cannot be conducted at the same time in two countries. Is there any way that all the evidence can be brought here, so that the same evidence can be returned to the jurisdiction of the U.S. judiciary? Who will and what mechanisms will provide... (President: Would you please bring the end? )......................................................................................................... Well, then I'll proceed with the next breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5785	Madam Minister has a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5786	So, I would still like to say a few words about the laws that are on the agenda of today's Parliament's session. Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, I still have something to say about these two laws. The first law is the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and taxes on compulsory social security, and the second law refers to the suspension and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to health insurance. What exactly is this about? I'd like to remind this Parliament that, first of all, it's about old debts. So 90% of the debt that's being talked about here, 45 plus 15 billion, literally applies to old debts. These are debts that occurred during the '90s, and then they're just prescribed interest. Of course, these laws have basically one goal, which is to free companies that have in the past made a debt of that ballast and can now regularly settle their current tax obligations. In doing so, we don't release them from debt, we release them from interest. That's when it comes to 10 tax areas. The debt is old, the size of the debt is the result of the interest prescribed throughout this period, so it's approximately, interest is 50%, the basic debt is 50%. So, debt is old, debt is not released, interest is released. So, the condition is that all their obligations are carried out regularly. As regards the contribution to health insurance, it is the second law, the solution is something different, given that the contribution to health insurance itself is something different in its nature from other tax forms. Here is the bill that we wish to practically enable the temporary suspension of the debt found on 31.12.2007, so we temporarily freeze, temporarily it does not pay interest, but only if it regularly pays contributions over the next four years. Thus, the results of these two laws will certainly be increased fiscal discipline in terms of regular tax payments, contributions and old interest-free debts, just so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5787	The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, and he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5788	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, you are not telling the full truth. You're trying to kind of dissuade Mr. Zoran Krasic's presentation, which put the basic objections ahead of the SRS on the proposal of these two laws. You're saying the debt to the greatest extent refers to the debt that was created in the 1990s. Is this debt 100% or is there that debt that has been since 2000 and what is that debt? Then the question arises, when you arrived in 2000, you claimed that everything that was until then was wrong, that you would fix and that you would never get into this situation. You haven't invented anything new. It was a long time ago when, too, some citizens couldn't verify health books, they were privates, self-activities. You couldn't possibly go to a doctor if you didn't have a certified medical ID, and in order to verify health clearance, you had to pay all taxes and contributions. What you're doing, you've just taken over from some earlier times when citizens were dividing into those citizens who could have health insurance regardless of what their companies, social firms, didn't pay those contributions and privates who couldn't because they were private. Now what you're saying, I'm accusing you, or you who are in power, how could you possibly have come into a situation that you can't reconcile health insurance contributions? How is that possible? The system that has been built according to the European, World Bank's advice, the IMF, how is it even possible to get into this position? Let's take that part that's been in the 1990s, but what about these contributions that haven't been settled since 2000? That's one thing. Second of all, how many of you have sold to social firms so far? Where's the money? Mr. Krasic asks you a simple question. A 30-year-old man pays contributions to health insurance, can't be treated now. You know how he can do it? He doesn't have a certified health book, he has to pay. What kind of state are you then? You want to be a socially just state, you want to take care of the citizens? Thirty years he paid for health care or his company was obliged to pay, and when he comes to the doctor if he doesn't pay, he won't let people out of the hospital unless they pay. That's what we're asking you about, not technique, how you're gonna write off interest, how you're gonna regulate debt payments, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5789	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5790	I'm really startled. Ma'am, if you'd gone out and said anything else, I might have accepted something, but what you just said earlier, it's really unacceptable. You just don't respect elemental logic. Please, there are several regulations here that regulate this area. There are a set of tax regulations, income tax for citizens, corporate tax, etc. And there's a law on payment of contributions. Now I'm going to read to you what it says in your law, "Dosmanliski", which I don't care about, from January 25, 2001 until today, whoever sat there, it's "dosmanlia," in all variations. Please, the Law which regulates the payment of contributions to compulsory insurance, Article 65, says – as regards the determination of payment and refund of contributions, legal remedies, interest, criminal provisions and other issues which are not governed by this law and the provisions relating to the tax exemption, relief and write-off, shall apply the relevant provisions of the laws governing the income tax of citizens. Please, this matter is regulated. In Serbia, they always get hurt when the Democrats want to do something good. Whenever you say something good we want to do to the citizens, the end, there's nothing more weed. Why don't you apply these regulations to the current situation? Why didn't you do the analysis? Maybe the rate's too high. It needs to be reduced. What's dangerous about the business environment so these business costs can't be paid? Why didn't you take something else? No, you took this to double-cross some of them. I'm not saying, you would seem to have made some impression that you've done something, but what happens if in three months this guy who's got some relief, a release, can't serve his current obligations? Then all this stuff you're admitting to him by this law is out of the question. It's a hoax again. It's a fraud, whether it's democratic, whether it's her or her, but it's a fraud. When she's democratic, she's painful. Please interrupt more, inform Tadic and let him send representatives here who are adequately aware to explain it. You as finance minister don't know how to explain these things to us. You don't want to get involved in the debate. Last night you found that you were attacking MPs who weren't in the O.R., and you're avoiding a discussion with those in the O.R. Djelica and this one, so no one can push it into the congregation anymore. They're simply appalled that they're on the loose. They are simply amazed. Is it possible that we are still free?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5791	The MP called for a breach of Article 104, let me just say, just because of the stenogram. The word has a folk MP Elvira Kovaca, authorised representative of the minority parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5792	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, draft laws that are before us, i.e. the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, as well as the second draft law on the standstill and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, offer the possibility of a write-off of interest, the first law, on the basis of certain public incomes, or the second bill, offering the possibility to hold off the obligation to pay dues and unpaid contributions to compulsory health insurance, as well as, the second option is the write-off of the debt for compulsory health insurance. The party to which I belong, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, and all MPs of the Minority Parliament will support these draft laws, which are currently on the agenda, as they generally refer to the fiscal discharge of certain existing entities and their application to those insurance companies for which employers did not pay contributions for health insurance, would create a possibility for them to exercise the right of compulsory health insurance. However, we still need to ask a few moral questions. Do we, by proposing a law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, reward those who have failed to fulfil their obligations, while on the other hand we punish, that is, to be milder, in some more favourable and better position those who have settled their obligations? The second question, also, morally - I would like to know, would be interesting to see, what is the structure of tax payers and contributions in various territories of our country? Somehow I have the impression that our duchess, the ones who regularly reconciled their obligations, that we from the SVM would be very sorry that they were indirectly placed in a more unfavourable position, in fact punished. The third uncertainty, the third question, also applies to the first draft law – among the public revenues to which this law will apply, should be classified as a tax on registered weapons, when we know that it represents luxury? The draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security allows, as I mentioned, the discharging of legal and natural persons in relation to unpaid interest on their obligations. The proposal is to create a more efficient settlement of current current obligations in this way. As we all know, the plan is to enable this to resuscitate and develop economy and entrepreneurship, which is, of course, in addition to improving the position of members of national minorities and decentralisation, one of the SVM priorities. We have seen that the effect of writing down interest by applying this law, by adopting it and later by applying it, would be about 15 billion dinars. We'll agree he's very stimulating for fiscal discharge. Now I'd like to talk a little bit about the second bill. According to the current Health Insurance Act, the obligation to exercise compulsory health insurance rights is prescribed only on the basis of a certified health certificate. The certificate of that health certificate is only possible when contributions to health insurance are paid. Unfortunately, for a large number of insurance companies, it is not possible to verify the health book just because they are not paid contributions to health insurance, their obligations have not been met, and all of this is due to many years of debt. We have read that the total debt per maturity and unpaid contributions for compulsory health insurance, so when we add up all insurance, farmers, entrepreneurs and all others, they're about 42 billion dinars, which is huge money, and the very difficult environment is, as things currently stand, it's impossible to begin to reconcile these commitments from the previous period. It is therefore entirely unrealistic to expect, because of financial opportunities, both physically and some legal persons, that old debts should be settled within a shorter period. However, the adoption of the bill before us, the draft law on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, would create opportunities for contributors to actually proceed with the payment of their current obligations so that, thanks to that, the reconciliation of those obligations, they could immediately verify their health books. The solution proposed by this bill, which, once again, I stress, SVM and all MPs of the Minority Club welcome, is to ensure that the obligation to contribute is met on a regular basis by the debtor and if, during the period of rest, as the Minister mentioned, the debtor regularly settles his obligations, then the previous debt will be written off to him as a whole. We believe that the application of this law would stimulate bonds to carry out the prescribed obligations properly. The SVM will vote in favour of the bill and consider it very important. We will agree that it is clear to all of us that it is necessary to regulate the issue of the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights, in the first place for those insurance companies who did not themselves have an impact on it, did not pay a contribution because their employers did not pay their contributions and they did not have the conditions for certifying the health book they needed. However, it should be noted once again that certain layers of the population that have very securely fulfilled all their obligations towards the state have, unfortunately, been forgotten or not put into a more favourable position have not been rewarded. Let us not forget that agricultural producers are those who make their own contributions, that is, if they had the option, before they chose whether to pay contributions or not, while those workers in large enterprises had no opportunity to influence their employers, so this second bill should be supported. The adoption of these two laws will certainly create positive effects for both citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. There would be conditions for further economic development. One of the SVM's priority objectives is to improve the position of economic operators, and we want to stimulate them to perform our duties regularly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5793	The word is made by MP Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5794	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, first I must express my dissatisfaction with two facts. The first fact is that yesterday it was on the Finance Committee, and those who knew that everything, about three sentences, was spoken about these two draft laws. Secondly, your relationship with the beginning of this agenda point, when you were provoked by what the authorised representative of the SRS said, then you just found it appropriate to go out for a pay phone, which is why I think that's wrong. All right, the attitude towards the Parliament, we're used to worse things than the government. You're one of the better examples, but then you'd ignore some of the things that were heard that you went out and said -- that, there's a debt, there's been a debt since the 1990s, that debt is terribly large and so on. That's what you had to do at the beginning of today's agenda story. I see it's always funny for you when I'm saying something and I'm glad you're having a good time, but it's not a proper relationship with the Parliament, in the extreme line to these bill proposals. What's most important, to me, is (it doesn't take much to spend words, some of my predecessors said a lot of things) to see why the debt came into being. Why did this debt come into existence in the 1990s, why did that debt occur after 2000? In one of the reasons these two laws, more specifically the Law on interest write-offs in the reason, it is said that, among other things, it enables businesses and entrepreneurs, i.e. natural persons, to dissipate and to settle the main debt and so forth their own burdens on the basis of interest-based direction in further production or whatever they are dealing with, which is great. We all probably know a lot of entrepreneurs, and so on, who are under a lot of tax burdens, which are under a lot of pressure when it comes to these contributions, but the fundamental and key question is whether these contributions are terribly large, whether the basic tax returns are terribly large. Indeed, there are a large number of taxpayers who are in a position to have a large debt. With you sitting next to your co-worker who, for a time, also worked in the IRS, will surely agree with me that there are the highest salaries in Vojvodina. You, this way, I won't say you're punishing them, but what kind of message are you sending them? I fully understand the aspect of the need to enable those who have created a large debt from a long time ago, i.e. there is a great debt among those who are now under heavy tax burden and write them off, in case they regularly settle their obligations, their previous obligations. However, what message do you send to those taxpayers who regularly settle their obligations? That it's much better not to pay, let the interest come to the sky and so on, and then someone who wants to buy a voice, etc., I'm not saying it's an example in this case, but it can happen again that someone comes, that they'll write off the debts that they've made, that they'll write off the interest, etc. I think it's incorrect, we know very well that they pay the best, those who regularly settle their obligations, control them the most, the greatest pressure is on them. People pay, the last penny gives them to answer when it's time to pay the VAT, pay their contributions, and then come into a situation that all that they respected this country, that they respected their obligations, someone just once crossed a tire and that those who weren't able to do it or didn't want to. It's tragic, but there are state authorities, even a state-run body whose ministry you're in, we know that in the tax administration in the 1990s, there are no tax-based and non-tax-related obligations. There's a responsibility, all of what we're saying these days, we can't possibly get to someone who's responsible for something. It's tragic that all the questions that are being opened here and elsewhere end by opening up a new topic, which through some media is something that will occupy the public and we're not getting to someone who's responsible. There are those who are responsible for why these obligations have not been met, and I assume that someone is responsible because they are very high taxes that entrepreneurs must bear. They probably can't take it. What kind of air conditioning is that? You're still the finance minister, we talked here about budget rebalancing, we talked about what your wishes and conclusions are, how it should be developed, and it's all okay, but obviously something doesn't work if a large number of taxpayers can't meet these obligations. And it was just said, I don't know who said it from my predecessors, but I think he's absolutely right, what happens if because of this heavy burden, the taxpayers can't make the commitment, or current obligations to regulate? I'm afraid we'll get back to the same thing. Consider the high tax burdens of citizens, or taxpayers. I think there's one way to make sure we don't come to a big debt, or taxpayers don't come to a big debt. I agree that one of the ways that you suggested is the one that wrote the law. If that's the best way, it'll show time. I'm afraid we're going to get into a situation where in a year, two, three of us write off the debt that started in 2008 or 2009, for the simple reason that this is not a system solution, this is just the current solution that will give to certain taxpayers, i.e. certain citizens who need a health book, who should survive when going to the doctor. This is not a system solution, and as long as we don't have system solutions, until we have system laws that are really going to change something, so right now it hurts very badly, we won't be able to get rid of the chance that in two years' time we have one such bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5795	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5796	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow People's MPs, I do not call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as I believe that the capacities of the Member. In 225 and 226, they sublime the information I want to give, the apropo exposition of my colleagues, so I answered accordingly. Madam Chairman, do you allow me to continue my presentation? Thank you. Namely, a colleague of Marash was talking about the social attributes of this law. Of course, any law that has social attributes draws with it and certain injustices, apropo that I would use to say a few words, because it fits all the things that my colleague Maras was talking about, about the LDP's committee group's initiative from Nis. It is about the fact that, when we are already giving such laws the opportunity to expand the circle of healthcare users, it is also time for access to secondary forms of health care to be given to them by certain principles and by the system solutions, as mentioned by fellow Maras. It is the initiative of the board of LDP from Nis to finally resolve the general hospital issue, i.e. the Clinical and Hospital Centre in Nis, in order to relieve the capacity of the University Clinical Centre. Fellow doctors and professors of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, who I see here among MPs, understand absolutely what this is about. I would also like to express my satisfaction that a good part of the Nis MPs, unrelated to party membership, have pledged to support this initiative and, consequently, I am pleased that this social theme has an extra-party character, and I hope that they will realise the satisfaction of the health insurance companies in Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5797	The word is from MP Milan Dimitrijevic, the authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5798	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, Madam Assistant Minister of Health, when the debate on the agenda began, I was afraid that these two draft laws of the ministry had nothing to say. How else to explain this, because when the chairman asked whether the proposing's representatives wanted a word, none of the proposing's representatives came forward. This applies in particular to the representative of the Ministry of Health. I don't think that's right and it's incorrect to the National Assembly. Later, the finance minister who explained some things reported, as explained by the two laws. When I talk about the Law on Peace and Debt write-off on the basis of the contribution to compulsory health insurance, the first thing I want to say is that there has already been a delay in the debate on this law, because this law was also in the previous extraordinary session of the Assembly. It was completely inexplicable to me. Unexplainable from the aspect of the reasoning of the law where it is said that who knows how many people because of unmistakable obligations to basic health insurance are not able to verify health books. So if we have one such condition, then there's a question of where these people can be treated. They can only be treated by pulling out a dinar from their pocket and going to check out and buying drugs. It's another attack on our citizens' budget anyway. I asked that question at the last meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly. After a month, the law appeared in the same form, and this law speaks, in fact, of a discrepancy in the work of state authorities. It's about the Ministry of Finance and the Republic Health Insurance Office. We've had some misunderstandings about this law, and it seems to me that the finance minister has removed it, which is the question I've been thinking about, which is, since this debt counts, and the minister has said since the 1990s. You see, to do a depression, what we talked about in the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of this debate, it's a matter of how the state is run and the behaviour of certain people who were then in the leading position, that's the problem that's coming up now. The second thing, taking part in the work of the Health and Family Committee, 15 days ago, the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute said that all debts were settled and that there were no backlogs, so, as far as the Republic Health Insurance Institute is concerned, there is no debt. So, how is it possible that now there's a debt for farmers' insurance companies of 22 billion 506 million? For self-employed insurance companies, 9 billion 778 million and 10 billion of the other obligors? This information that the Director of the Bureau presented to us at the time on the Committee is simply not true. Debt showed up. On the other hand, when considering the reasoning of this law, MPs, at least those dealing with this kind of problem, were to get a few things, to see what the structure of our insurance companies is, what is the number of that population, how much of the structure participates in the total mass of the funds being poured into the Republic Health Insurance Office. What can be concluded and read in the budget rebalancing, and in this budget rebalancing there is also a rebalancing of the Health Insurance Office, it is seen to be completely non-transparent. You can't see how much resources have been spent, where they've been spent, and I'll remind you of just one fact. In the Health Protection Strategy, we publicly declare ourselves and say that the horror of our activities is directed towards primary health care, and in practice it is completely different. That's why I'm saying it, because when you see what the funds from the Republic Health Insurance Institute are defined, you see that one third of these funds go to the primary level and two thirds to the secondary level. We can't do that. Either we're changing health policy, or we're telling the public something that's not true. The law is trying to regulate something that is a problem. The law tries to regulate, to allow people to verify health books. The law in Article 14 has one thing that I think is completely wrong. I will read this Article 14 in order to make it clear what it is: ''If, in the period of retirement of debt, or before 31 December 2011, the insurance company ceases the property of the insurance undertaking on one basis and acquires the property of the insurance undertaking on another basis, in accordance with the law governing health insurance, the debt on the basis of the contribution provided for in Article 3 of Article 2 of this Act shall be deducted, or charged in accordance with the provisions of Article 2. 6th and 7th of this law. '"Why is it written off? If he has acquired the insurance base on another basis, he is able to pay that contribution and the debt left behind. Who's the write-off? What social enterprises, what private enterprises? It opens up the possibility of doing it selectively, creating suspicion. Why is it not precise what institutions are, or insurance companies, whose insurance companies are free to pay? I wrote the amendment that instead of the word "describe" and "or," it says "charge" if it gets right on another basis. As regards the second law and the write-off of interest and the commitments made on the basis of the established tax on the contribution to compulsory social security, Article 1 point 2 of the corporate profit tax - what undertakings are they? We don't know which companies they are and whose businesses they are. It may open up the possibility that we may suspect that some companies owned by someone without speaking to whose interest they will be freed, and may not, because they are not the owners of this political group. What's this about? Why is it so imprecise? Where's the answer to that question? In point 6) the interest tax on registered weapons, sports, hunting weapons is exempt from taxes, and the weapon held in the house pays taxes on it. On what basis do you want to free the taxes and interest of those people holding guns and not using them and keeping them in the house? What country does it exist in? How come people like that get rid of taxes? All in all, the first law tries to solve one problem, but in an untransparent way. The second law simply has two items that are unacceptable. I hope that the amendments tabled by the DSS MPs, which I assume you will not accept, because it is a practice that no amendment of the opposition will be accepted, although I hope you will accept these amendments, and that these amendments will improve these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5799	The speech is attended by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5800	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, therefore, we have two laws ahead of us, a law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and a bill on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to health insurance. The SPS-JS will certainly support the adoption of these two laws. For many reasons, the entire system has fallen into a blockade, and on the other hand, citizens, so, natural persons, legal persons, have gone into major debts that are insurmountable and all of this is blocking the normal functioning of the social protection and health care sphere. It is almost such a position that it is impossible to go further in this direction without taking some measures, because filling these funds comes under question. It's taking a swing, and on the other hand, it's devising any way to collect this debt and the interest. It's just impossible to do that. So, this first law on the write-off of interest on public income-based commitments means the release of interest on taxes, and that, eight and two contributions. The adoption of this interest-free law creates a legal basis and the possibility of a write-off is calculated and the unpaid interest on the basis of certain public revenues. This creates a condition for reviving the economy and entrepreneurship, dispensing the economy, entrepreneurs and individuals, which will contribute to the new momentum of their activity, and on the other hand, the exercise of the right to write off interest is conditioned by the reconciliation of debt, which will certainly contribute to and give the possibility to fill these funds for its purposes. When applying for the right to write off interest, as well as in this second law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to health insurance, the law provides for the application of certain documents to which the bonds are obliged to document whether they exercise the rights resulting from the law. It says the content and the request form is closer regulated by the finance minister. I think that the content of such a pattern should be completed by that documentation and by the data from which it will be seen whether there has been abuse of certain entities, i.e. the taxpayer of contributions or taxes, so they could pay their obligations, but it was more useful for them not to do so. We now come to the moral question of those who regularly did so. So, there would have to be a mechanism at least for future time, so that there would be no abuse, that is, the way in which these taxpayers are controlled by contributions and taxes compared to what they should do. When it comes to the draft law on the standstill and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, it should be pointed out that the adoption of this law is certainly necessary and necessary. We have a lot of people in the field, a lot of citizens, their families, family members who can't use basic health care, they can't verify the books, and there's no chance of getting out of one of those problems and in the future solving it without passing this law. Non-payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance, by the contributors, has disabled health care, and on the other hand the funds are not being filled. Large debts were incurred until 31 December 2006, when contributions to compulsory health insurance and PIO were paid together, so that those who wanted to pay for healthcare were disabled because they were obliged to pay and contribute to PIO. In any case, since 1 January 2007, when these commitments were separated, it has proved to be a much better solution. I think we should think about changes and additions, let's say, of the Health Insurance Act, because the one that was adopted in December 2005 shows many shortcomings that will not help solve the problems that have arisen, which we are now trying to solve by adopting this proposed law. In the application of the Health Insurance Act, the obligations for payment of contributions are carried out on the family, and let's say, in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, we have a household category. One household, under the current provisions of the Health Insurance Act, can have several families, three or four, each to receive a 22,246,32 dinar debt. As a criterion for dismembering households in families are taken years of age of household members, i.e. family, not paid, or economic power, so that we have a situation where a multi-member household, which by the norms can be one family that is economically well-being, not to say richly, pays one debt, and one that has several full-time children, by three or four responsibilities, although it is a family that is materially very poor status and condition. It's also not a Christian jobless jobless position, and they live in the country and pay for insurance as family bearers. For example, parents have little land, they pay one debt, and their daughter is a doctor, lives in the country, she's jobless, and she gets another post as a farmer. It would be worth thinking that if duties were to be changed, and I think it should be analysed and considered, how realistic it is that an existing law with these solutions works, but I should think that the obligation within the family is done by a member of the household and that the measure is determined, whether 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, I am not able to bid, nor to suggest figures, it is a professional thing, a matter of one analysis. In any case, such a solution would allow for a more realistic operation of these obligations and a greater coverage of those people who want to be insured, i.e. to be provided. A way like this leads to a blockade. We have an unfair borrowing, and then we inevitably come to a failure of the entire system. There are cases that family members find themselves in different home addresses by force and that the law treats them as two families. And not to mention that in tax administrations, where the family-classification and definition process within a single household has not yet been completed, there are many problems. Even this law, which is now on the agenda, will not be able to begin because of the unpreparedness of those who need to do so. Also, attention should be paid to the fact that basic health care does not cover all categories of the population, for example, graduates, graduates or unemployed who do not receive benefits from the labour market, and that is a large number of families that even have children, many of them, so that children do not have health insurance. We have big problems, and one of these is that employers as payment bonds don't do it or even suspend in some cases, and they don't pay health insurance contributions. It is therefore necessary to establish one control in order to comply with its obligations. A large number of citizens are left to themselves, to the mercy and mercy of the understanding of individuals, i.e. employers who easily reject it or in one wrong way treat what is their obligation. As a human society, we should certainly establish that human health is a priority and that it is a basic category that assumes everything that comes further and results from this. Problems have also been seen with too high participations that produce extremely poor public health care, as many citizens are unable to pay for medicines, checks, even children without free medicines, many antibiotics are paid. High drug participations, asthma machines are also charged with dentist services, and dental prosthetics are not free of charge for children, etc. So these are all the problems that are now in another sphere that you should think about and, of course, solutions that are legally regulated. That law and such solutions were made here in the National Assembly and I don't blame anyone for it. It's the solution of an earlier assembly. But we have to change those laws. Practice and life have shown many shortcomings in these solutions. I think that by not solving these problems, it will be very soon to consider the adoption of these two laws that are before us. Because, at first glance, these two laws are acceptable, is that they promise to solve the problems that have arisen, solve the problems of citizens, solve the problems of the system, but they will not have long-term impact unless we change from the ground some legal solutions concerning the health care sector, PIO, social protection, etc. Consideration should be given to re-examination of the time limits given in the draft law. So, when I speak and consider it a possibility, I do not decidently claim that this is the case, but whether a greater effect and greater benefit in terms of achieving what the law is intended to do, what is required and expected, to move those deadlines, let's say, when it comes to debt settlement law and debt write-offs based on health insurance contributions, and not to be a period from 1 January 2008 to 1 January 2011... What? Actually, I apologize, thank you, dear minister. So it's a debt from before, not to be 31 December 2007 but to be 31.12.2008 and to have this rest until 31 December 2012. Why are we in the SPS thinking about it? Because, in the meantime, here, already expires this year, this year has already given its effect in terms of the liability of the contributors, to a large extent, and this is particularly controversial in those categories of natural persons, e.g. in particular farmers or independent activities, etc. So the only question is whether the state loses there. It is more useful for the state, conditionally, so to say, I want to say for the funds, that it remains as laid down in the bill, or it is also more useful for the funds, but, above all, for the citizens, or for the taxpayers, to move these deadlines. So, the SPS, in any case, will support these two laws. We think that they are necessary and that they have a purpose and that they will give their effect on two sides, and in what is the interest of citizens and what is the interest of the system that regulates this matter. These laws will certainly be short of breath if we do not regulate and amend the laws governing these issues, which is, above all, the Health Insurance Act, the Social Protection Act, the PIO Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5801	The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, authorised representative of the Group of Representatives, Forward, Serbia. (SRS emissaries banging on benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5802	Dear citizens of Serbia, we have two laws before us that deal with debt-restriction problems and write off interest on commitments to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I must, first of all, state the position of the Serbian Progressive Party by which the government did not allow us to vote in favour of this law. We are not allowed to support this law because it represents and the quantification of the effects is not given as is expected of one serious and responsible government. If the draft law on the write-off of interest on commitments, on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, gives us that the effect of applying this law will be around 15 billion dinars, that means that less than 15 billion dinars will come in the budget, therefore, on the basis of the income tax on citizens, means, the obligation to pay as interest on that basic debt which is not paid in time on the basis of the income tax on citizens, the corporate income tax, but we have no information on which enterprises. What companies show that they make a profit, but they don't pay their taxes on time, so they come into this legal obligation? Do these companies, for certain reasons, show profits to have some privileged position on the stock market, to show someone more successful than they are? We don't see it from this argument and the law we've passed. There's interest on income, and in time unpaid liabilities based on inheritance and gift taxes, sales taxes, tax on registered weapons, which is really pointless, to forgive someone for their interest and not pay taxes on weapons, but I think it's an even bigger problem to write off interest on someone who hasn't paid taxes on profits. So someone who works well in this society, because he's allowed it, for whatever reason, but the state is taking some of its credit for creating a business environment. We deny that state a total of 15 billion dinars in the budget, which could finance young people, help families, or, at least, make the deficit smaller. Therefore, if this obligation were to arrive at the state register properly, we would have a deficit of 30 billion, not 45. Or, that's what the government tells us that for minus 15 billion dinars, there will be savings, because this law was on the agenda in January of the month, but because of election campaigns it was not adopted in this assembly. I ask the government and all those who know, do you know that when you want to increase the allowed minus (maybe it's not legal, maybe not all of them know it in the government) but citizens who have to increase their minuses in order to survive meet with the practice that banks are asking them to confirm the settlement of tax obligations – does the tax administration give confirmation before the adoption of this law and afterwards? I'm interested in the difference. Are those obligations settled on time or not? So, citizens in general, those who are taxpayers of income tax, so let's say, they should increase the minus or travel abroad, get a visa, and in that case they are asked to prove that they settled their obligation on time, what does this law mean for them? It means that there is a clearly quantified and defined amount of funds per tax or by a group of taxpayers under this tax the SNS could be defined. Now, I can think that behind this decision there is a background that me and the MPs don't know enough and I can even doubt that I'm doing good to someone by saying to the farmers' health books in this other law or, here, by the fact that the interest has exceeded the basic debt and we allow citizens to pay it regularly. It is not an unknown practice that debt-confidential relations are affected, negotiated, one who seeks and one who owes, especially when it comes to interest and rest. But if the state is establishing something by law that may have a sound of inciting tax indiscipline, the question arises, whether the real ones and those you have shown us here are making concessions, or, in January of the month when this law was spoken of, there were even speeches in congregation towers, that this is one of the requirements of foreign customers, for example, in "The Irons", which is the fulfillment of its contractual obligations by making one of these laws. In time, and I have been an MP in the Serbian Parliament since the 1992 elections, and in the time period from 2000 to 2006, I was not, therefore, at the time when there was not enough modern funds to calculate, there was no software, there were so many computers, with every law there was a precise assessment of the economic effects of every law. What does that mean for the budget, how much was denied? Which of the laws, and by operating research and precise mathematical methods, will be determined, benefited, and who is the harm? Today, with so many modern means of communication, we have come into a situation that you bring us a single sentence, that the effects of the law will be about 15 billion dinars. I'm not in favor of the fact that in the past systems, we need to tear down everything to build history from the beginning. If one of the best achievements of the former system had not been destroyed in this process, which is the Social Accounting Service, we would not have had the practice of not having a paid income tax, that we have no paid contributions, and that we have paid salaries. Because you also have here in the text that even employers owe you 10 billion dinars on unpaid taxes and contributions. I lived in Pristina until 1999. I worked at the bank and the Social Accounting Service, I consider it a general credit for all of us who regularly graduated from colleges and proud of our economic knowledge, and for the work of the Social Accounting Service in which, I claim to you for the Pristina I lived, there was no name or phone from which the order to pay the wages could come without paying taxes and contributions, or obligations to the state. Do we today have no accurate insight into the total flows of the financial system, what taxes are, how much a daily flow on the basis of which the tax, who launders the money or how infuses our banks by certain means, but we have a law on the prevention of money laundering, by which however, Mr Djelic could pay 9.99 percent of his stake in Sopar SAS company, not 10%, because with 10, he would have to show that he is the founder of the company. If SDK had worked before, and without this law, this and many cases could not have happened, which we're just going to hear about. And now, in addition to the fact that there are countless institutions, agencies, laws, councils, in fact, we have a situation where those who abuse your good intentions and the desire to help these economies and citizens become so rich, and as they say – you make laws whatever you want, form agencies whatever you want, for example, this Djelic, I will at some point be so rich that I will buy every body that needs to decide about me or who needs to judge me. That I'm right when I say this, says the fact that you in the budget, it's my special request to you, as Minister, to give the explained items dedicated to the Ministry's funds. For example, in the Ministry of Justice - Section 13, there is no particularly quantified amount of what is given for the professional training of judges and other staff in the judiciary, but in the light of the law on amendments and additions to the Budget Law, it is said that the Ministry is also doing that part of the job, means receiving funds and giving it for the purpose of training judges. We don't see it by budget how much, nor can we control it, and it's an ideal condition for corruption, ideal circumstances. Why did I take that example? If we want to qualify as a serious state to co-operate with the world we don't need the control of others, nor the stick of the Monetary Fund, or their x-ray light, our decision to live much better, that we have new criteria called work, honor, honesty, responsibility for public function, responsibility for public word, means that we ourselves are working to improve the justice system, where we won't threaten judges with re-election, like Damocle's sword, we will already allow this mass of law that we bring, to study, to look at other people's experiences and to help all of us to live better. When I say that I took that example, it's just one of many in which each of these new ways of income in the budget makes it impossible for us to control, and also for you as the minister we're going to ask for responsibility, it makes it impossible for us to see the way we spend. It's the essence of the objections to this law. You have a law in which we say that we will free all farmers from torment by now they will be able to verify their health books and should do so. I have to remind the citizens and colleagues, when we adopted the 2007 Budget Law here, we had a situation, from taking over the helm at the head of the finance ministry, from Mr. Dinkic, to make Mr. Cvetkovic do so, to turn Mr. Dinkic's surplus into Mr. Cvetkovic's deficit. How is that possible? Exactly, unrepresented obligations for the Department of Health Insurance. After recognition of Minister Cvetkovic for this speaker, which is covered by stenograms, 23 billion dinars are not shown in Dinkic's budget variant of the obligation to the Health Insurance Institute. Have you measured well at this point whether this Institute should deprive 42 billion dinars of inflow or just for what the farmers with 22 billion were insured, but certainly less than 10 billion dinars for employers who did not settle their obligation? That's how much you damage the budget. So much of someone's budget is going to be less, because I'm not sure that you're ready, not you personally, but the government, to make savings based on which we could cover this. For exceptional reasons, with requests that you take seriously those of us who want to talk about this, and not to talk about it, each of your next proposals, really, I expect to have at least the economic effects of the law with a broader explanation, because that's what we need here and the citizens on whose behalf we're asking questions. Thank you for your attention. (For the entire duration of the speech of MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5803	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5804	Mrs. Komic, I don't know, there's something wrong with Article 27 of our Rules of Procedure and I get the impression that you need to inform this task force that is working on making a new Rules of Procedure to change something in that member or to write a new member because, first of all, it violates the dignity of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but it also disrupts the consistent work in the National Assembly. Always at the moment when the SRS shows with the power of the argument what the government is and what Boris Tadic is like, and here is to be informed about what Boris Tadic is doing (showed a photo), it is something that he helps some, only that he allegedly makes a circus here in the Assembly, falsely pretending to be someone and something. I have to draw your attention that today the Fourth District Public Prosecutor's Office has shown this interest in destroying and making inaccessible official documents and is likely to follow a criminal procedure, but not to prejudge matters, it is important for me to, if necessary, reject criminal charges so that we may act as subsidiary prosecutors. There are people here who end the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know, when someone steals a mandate, it's not a big problem, but it's a problem when the structure in the assembly supports thieving, so that's already a big problem. I warn you, tell Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, she has succeeded in these few months as president of the National Assembly to make her own party, because we have something in the Assembly that did not participate in the elections, no one knows who they are. They, in practice, with Boris Tadic's money and these tycoons, Caneta-The Frog, etc., are now making fog so that it can't be seen that this government is falling into ruin. Let's make it a disaster, rather than making the citizens of Serbia a huge disaster. I would ask you to continue these side elements that serve to dissuade the debate, which allow you to falsely present someone that something is here, to end it. Here, the people who were our councilmen on the Palilu municipality, they were deceived, they came back, they talked about what kind of scams were in the municipalities where our council mandates were returning. Only in the National Assembly is continued complicity in the execution of the crime. What's the background? Do the Americans, do the English, do you Boris Tadic? Probably Boris Tadic. If he hadn't, he would have fenced himself from it, Mrs. Hope. He doesn't build, he doesn't shut up. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: I am also being built upon in his name.) What's worth, he didn't give you the authority to fence yourself in his name. Let's work this out. Everything can be determined because everything is common knowledge. Please, all of Serbia is widely known, but you need them to be these stones. They're not rocks anymore, we threw it out, now they're a huge burden that will only allow this government to sink as soon as possible. Please take care of the Rules of Procedure and take care of dignity. Serbian citizens know everything, Mrs. Comic. I'm telling you this on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, because I have some legitimacy. Don't start without the legitimacy to give a word, because then you're creating this situation where you can't even normally work because the open window is whispering, and over the window we get the voice of America show.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5805	There was no breach of Article 27 in any of the views. The word was sought and received on the basis of the course of the session and the rules of the Rules of Procedure by the authorised representative of the Group of Representatives, Forward, Serbia, MP Jorgenka Tabaković, and I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, provided that in peace and silence, by respecting all provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MP heard and gave his views both to the Members of Parliament and to those who watch this session directly. So there were no injuries to article 27. The word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure has the MP Milan Dimitrijevic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5806	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating Ruler 104 and on Article 200. In order to explain the relationship between these two members, I'm going to have to quote these members. Article 200: ''To an oral question, the Government, or minister, must reply orally immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP in writing, within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. ''Article 104: ''''Not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. '"By careful analysis of the stenographic notes from last night's presentation of Ms. Minister, I must quote that the minister answered one question about my parliamentary issue and why the prices of medicines for individual pharmaceuticals in Serbia are seven times higher than in Montenegro. "I know the Montenegro market, by the way, and I must admit that I was quite surprised by the fact that prices are far lower in Montenegro than in Serbia. I can say, I definitely know, sure, the water's far more expensive there, almost like milk, and the kilowatt current is far more expensive, the drugs, fortunately, I haven't bought anything so I can't say anything. Drinks are more expensive in Montenegro, I don't know, but on the basis of an annual vacation in the last 20 years in Montenegro I know that Montenegro is definitely not a cheap country." This is scandalous! Madam Minister, we're not having a private conversation so you can explain to us how you've been flying for 20 years in Montenegro and how you didn't need the drugs. I ask the question – why do Serbian citizens pay seven times more for medicines from certain Serbian factories? And you answer us how you fly to Montenegro, how you go to the market. What does that look like?- I'm sorry. What kind of answer is that? You insult the dignity of the National Assembly. We're asking you a serious question. This is a serious attack on the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you are telling us about the markets in Montenegro. This is a shame. Who gave you the right to answer to the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5807	People's MP, there's no breach of article 200 because a member of the 200th cannot be applied to this session. You couldn't, the stenogram worked, ask a parliamentary question and no MP question was asked during a session that was under way. I ask you to consult more carefully the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that you do not mislead yourself or those you address. The parliamentary questions shall be raised at a special session which the President of the Assembly shall appoint at the request of the parliamentary group or after all points of the agenda have been exhausted. So no parliamentary question has been asked during this session, and there can be no injury to a member who cannot be applied during a session that is under way. As for Article 104, there is also no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because in the presentation of Minister Diana Dragutinovic, there was no demeaning of the Assembly or any injury to any of the members, which we are obliged to respect during the communication and session at the National Assembly Hall. He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic and gets the word, based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5808	Dear People's MPs, Madam Chairman, a citizen who was behind this speaker, and I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to Rule 104, the dignity of the National Assembly, may be one's letter, perhaps one of Boris Tadic, perhaps the ambassador of Great Britain, perhaps an ambassador of the United States, but cannot possibly be an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as such is not the name and last name, and as a member of a political party, he did not go to the elections. So, the agony that continues in this House, related to the recognition of the mandate of some people who are still sitting here in a magical way, will likely continue for some time, but will have their epilogue. It's about the morale of those people, especially that lady who found herself behind this pay phone. The lady betrayed herself twice and betrayed the one who gave her everything she had in her life, Vojislav Seselj. Once, two days before he left for The Hague, when he returned his parliamentary ID, saying that he was unhappy that he was not an MP at the time, and then, after we allowed her to return to the political party and get re-engaged, because Vojislav was painful and said, well, maybe she had some health issues, maybe she had some reason to back off, to be dissatisfied, let her work, she should be able to prove herself, now, again, when it's hard, she turns her back on him, she stabs him in the back and leaves the political party that allowed her to have everything she has. But she needed another apartment in Belgrade by the apartment in Novi Sad, right on the street of Dr. Zoran Djindjic. So, her personal interests, dear citizens, you know, it's always you who motivate her to do anything in life, her wealth, not any of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5809	There's no breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word was sought on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and during this session was given to an authorised representative of the Prost, Serbia, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic. I pray that in our political views we use, use and abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to the extent that this does not create the basis for criminal justice. All MPs in the National Assembly have the status of MP and all the rights and obligations and obligations that arise from that status, and so does MP Jorgenka Tabakovic, the authorised representative of the Parliament group Forward, Serbia, as we all respect all other members of the group regarding mutual respect, respect for the dignity of the National Assembly and speakers during the session. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? No, I don't. You're looking for a word to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1). National MP Suleiman Spaho insists that I must take care of the order in the National Assembly. Four MPs tried to interfere with the previous speaker, and I have to make it clear to the Rules of Procedure that there are attempts to interfere with MPs during the session of the National Assembly. To answer your question, yes, I have an obligation to a National MP who knows there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure asking for a word and gets a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, the first vice-president of the National Assembly, you have violated Article 104: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." Namely, Mrs. Comic is today at the presentation of the citizen, Jorgovanka Tabaković, and yesterday at the presentation of Masic Zoran, you never found it appropriate, and you know the Rules of Procedure very well, to warn them, because when they speak to each other about their views and stress that they are the views of the Serbian Progressive Party. I ask you – did the Serbian Progressive Party participate in the May 11th elections? All those MPs who fled the SRS, headed by Tomislav Nikolic, and stole the mandates, founded their political party the other day. About whether someone is advanced and how advanced they are, they will show time and show the next election. Until then, please don't support something like this, return the mandates of the SRS, all the presidential seats on the boards, because what Zoran Mašić said here yesterday is that it's good agriculture, it's far good for agriculture, it's a way of courting their ruling majority and ministers. It is not correct for voters who have given confidence and, based on that trust, the SRS has received mandates. Obviously, you support a thief and that's a good thing to see. I'm sure the citizens will know how to evaluate it and that they will give their opinion and the court in the next election. This government has no perspective, because it supports, first of all, thieving. Please return the mandates of the SRS, that you do not allow this speaker to be misused, because all the presidential seats on the boards belong to the SRS. They were on the SRS list in the election - Dr Vojislav Seselj. Stop this and return, show at least a little dignity, and in the Serbian people there are many proverbs that can send a clear message, first of all, we will send a clear message to the citizens from here. One of these is that someone has "roasted eyes" and "face like a freak." So I ask you to stop it from returning the mandates of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5811	National MP, there were no infringements of Article 104, they sought and received the floor during today's session, during the debate in principle, the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group Advanced, Serbia, MP Jorgovanka Tabaković, and yesterday in the debate on the principle of amending and supplementing the Law on Budgets, MP Zoran Mašić and MP Zoran Antic. I ask you, by abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we do not approach a border that implies our silent agreement that the word for injury of the Rules of Procedure should be obtained even when there is no need for it strictly. For your request, if you have spoken to me, saying that I am not implementing the Rules of Procedure, I am not applying in Article 104 on the return of the mandate, I will remind you that the termination of the term of office is on the authorised signatories of the electoral lists explaining the reasons for the termination of the term of office of one of the MPs. It shall send its request to the Administrative Committee and to the RIK, which shall make up a report establishing the National Assembly at its sitting and then a signator, empowered, electoral lists, giving the RIK and the Administrative Committee the name and last name of the second National MP or of the People's Parliament, or those for which their mandate is to be established. It is a procedure, and that is my answer, if you think that I am in any position to discuss the mandates during the application of Article 104. I can only refer you to the regulations governing the entry into office. The National Assembly has 250 MPs with all rights and responsibilities, equal rights and duties that arise from that status. If no more than the authorised representatives or representatives are answering for a word, I would like to inform you that they are in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word, in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups – SRS, ZES, SPS-JS, G17 plus. I give my first word on the list of persons registered for the debate on a joint principled review of the drafts of the law referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. National MP Milan J. Nikolic, followed by Dusanka Plecevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5812	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe you will agree with me that there is no example in modern history of the economy of a country's national economy. The collapse of the Yugoslav market broke down technological and economic ties, parallel to the collapse of the Yugoslav market, and the collapse of the Soviet market, where it was important for Serbia's economy to participate, and after that, sanctions, wars, bombings and enough, I would say, rigorous transition processes, have led, above all, the processing industry of Serbia to disappear from the business map of Serbia, and those who survived have heavy scarring times behind them, deal with outdated technology, with low productivity of work compared to countries in the environment and make huge efforts to maintain what kind of being. I think new challenges are facing such an economy that has not survived these problems and that still lives on loans, etc. Just a wave of financial crisis, which is serious, wanted us to admit it or not, but felt it in the businessmen, no more getting material on delayed payments from abroad, no more credit sales, mostly materials being supplied in advance and mostly cut materials, which brings, above all, I'd say, the processing industry in phase, because of the purchasing power of our population, that it can't count on some serious price increase and to maintain production. I work in one of the industries, we don't produce chips and complex technologies in Serbia, I work in the furniture industry, and there's every chance that it won't be able to withstand such an additional input of the financial crisis without some serious shift in prices, because we have the advantage of cheap labour. That advantage cannot replace high-tech technology for which there is no means to renew. I think it's particularly threatening to lose the export game in these times. I apologize for mentioning my exporting company around 40m euros again, threatens to lose it, as it will not be able to cope with some extra-carinal safeguards that some countries are taking to protect their national economy. I think that one of the initial good ways is that what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, is, at least something to help the businesses and businesses of Serbia, to create conditions through certain reliefs, in this case through two laws, of about 57 billion, as mentioned, come as a relief, which can be invested in the purchase of material, first of all, not to obtain expensive loans or even more, with the renewal of technology so that we can survive in these difficult times as competitive, at least in markets where we are already positioned and where we have a chance to survive. I think it is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it is the interest of businesses and entities and I think it is the greatest interest of the state, because it creates a climate, that by relaxing some of the givings that economic operators cannot do now create opportunities for the current obligations to be fully reconciled. Some of the laws create conditions, a lot of this has been said now, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia can be treated, because so far they have not been able to do so, because they had to pay off those obligations or giving, first of all, for health insurance, to go month after month, and the month when it was not paid, health books were not being certified and there were problems. I'm just gonna run over some draft laws for a little while. For example, the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security foresees that the write-off of all interest and liabilities that have reached 31. 12. write this down: income tax, corporate tax, tax on transfer of absolute rights, inheritance tax, sales tax, income tax, taxes on financial transactions, compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory insurance for unemployment, as well as taxes on registered weapons. I think the application and approval procedure is quite simplified. Stimulating measures are being created that if payment commitments are yet to come by the end of the year, then there is a chance that 100% of interest is being written off, if by the end of March of the month, it is 75% and by the end of the sixth month the interest would be dropped at 50%. We, businessmen, would be happy, if in a certain way this were to be taken into account, that all write-offs start from 1 January 2009 or that all commitments that come to 31.12.2008 fall under these criteria and that would be slightly more than 15 billion relaxations, while at the same time would be a real help to businesses, because in a certain way these commitments must be increased for 2008 commitments. The draft law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance regulates the rest of the obligation to pay the income and unpaid contributions for compulsory health insurance, as well as the write-off of the debt on the basis of the achievements and the unpaid contributions for compulsory health insurance. The law provides for a default of debt, which reached 31.12.2007, by 31.12.2011, with the condition that the commitments start from 1.1.2008 to 31.12. are regularly settled, and after such reconciliations, there is a full discharge of debt, interest and a period of rest on which interest is not charged, which is tempting. It would be much more favourable, and the effect for the state would be far greater, as the economy would still have the strength to make commitments since 1.1.2009 or further fully at peace, and that this law is valid with the application of a write-down obligation at 31.12.2008. The application procedure for local tax administrations or for large systems in the headquarters and branches for large systems is quite simplified. I agree with the findings, too, that the conditions of the adjustment, although macroeconomicly set, apply to all, to certain types of production and to certain difficulties in which some firms are not the same and I think that some sublaw act, a government regulation or some other instrument should regulate these conditions. There who made high profits, and today to write off some of the obligations that he didn't pay for who knows what reasons, would not be fair compared to those who see salvation in this, to keep their jobs, not to come into the winding-up phase, and then to create an army of unemployed, and we give huge ex-post money to some new Greenfield, which will not come so quickly, because now in conditions where none of the investors in these difficult times think that this way with large investment procedures goes anywhere, even to Serbia, because at least it's a practice, it doesn't build out of money that he earned for himself, but from credit, credits are much more expensive this time. Effects that can be counted – insurance companies, contributors gain the opportunity to exercise the right to compulsory health insurance. Health certificates can be verified, although no payment of contributions has been made. The conditions are created to ensure regular payment of current liabilities, the insurance companies are relieved of obligations of 42 billion plus these 15, we said 57. The problem with the inability to verify health books will be solved, as the Mandatory Social Insurance Act provides for regular payment, but in a way that all previous payments have been settled, which is being created as a major problem in the achievement of deadlines, it is almost impossible to achieve them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5813	Dusanka Plečević's MP has the word, and after that, MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5814	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the essence of the Bill of Retirement and Debt write-off on the basis of the contribution to compulsory health insurance is that if the debtor is properly paid for the contribution during the period of the debt, which is from 1 January of this year to 31 December 2011, he shall write off the debt, and if he does not comply with the Bill's proposal, the debt collection procedure will be initiated on the basis of all the income and unpaid interest contributions, as set out in Article 7 of this Bill. The reasoning shows that several years of debt on the basis of this contribution, taxpayers, employers and other investors, amounts to about 42 billion dinars. Under the applicable law, the payment of current health insurance obligations cannot be initiated before payment of the previous period's obligations can be made. The proposal is obviously intended to remove this obstacle and start with the regular payment of all taxpayers. On the human side, the proposal could be supported, as many citizens in Serbia do not have health insurance, although the socio-responsible government, as it calls itself, should provide basic health care to all Serbian citizens, regardless of the bill. On the other hand, the government tramples its own laws and shows the inability to implement them. Why, I ask, the tax administration experts didn't take the necessary collection measures in time from the property of the debtors? The answer is simple. The law has been applied selectively, so some people have been sickened, while others have been untouchable, and now we have this bill of law, which looks more like an abolization than some, possibly, future authorities, than a solution to the problem. The question arises – why should they not be paid and now behave legally, because they may be reprogrammed, perhaps some new expert budget rebalance will settle their debts, while they will retain income. Small entrepreneurs are punished, who are usually paid regularly and always the first to strike. This isn't the first time this has happened. Debts on a variety of grounds were written off mainly to companies which were sold in various fixed tenders, rather than to settle debts on the basis of contributions to health insurance from the privatisation mass. It used to be the regulations and decisions of the finance minister, but for 42 billion dinars, it was necessary to wait for all elections to pass and to forget all promises. I propose the next solution - to show solidarity and to avoid the disputed debt of at least 1,000, Dinkic, euros, which we received during the elections, so as to avoid this assembly, so-called. A black hole in Djelic, votes another extorted law that will slow us down on our way to a European hug. Those promised five billion euros, according to the latest 85.00 dinar Jelasic course, would cover a total debt of 42 billion and would remain to build one smaller clinic. Is there a more logical and natural solution than this, because health is the most obstacles?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5815	The word is made by MP Jovan Nesovic, and then by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5816	The President-in-Office, respected Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today there are two, I think, a very important law, is one law on the write-off of interest due to social security taxes and the other is the law on pension and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. These two laws are important for both business entities operating in the territory of the Serbian state and for the large population of our citizens, which is approximately tens of thousands of our citizens. As regards the first law, which is the write-off of interest on the basis of a contribution to compulsory social security, the basic reason for the adoption of this law is to create a legal basis for economic operators operating in the territory of the Serbian state to be allowed to write off or release interest due on 31.12.2007. Article 2 paragraph 6 of this Act provides for the possibility for economic operators to write off that debt charged with that date, but they also have two obligations. The first obligation is to make the principal pay by that date, and also to pay and contributions that have reached the conclusion on the day of submitting this request for the release of those interest. So this law stipulates that the request can be made by 31/07.2009. They must, from 1 January 2008, until that date, also settle the current debt that comes on the grounds of social security. What is also important to say, it seems to me, the largest part of this debt was in the 1990s, when the economic crisis in the state of Serbia was the largest. So it's old debts, and it seems to me that it's very correct and fair to these subjects that the big interest rates that have been made since the 1990s are kind of being written off, that these entities are dispersing and that they can move on. This means helping economic operators in this way, which means developing the economy and entrepreneurship in the state of Serbia. On the other hand, the state will have current revenues that will stimulate businesses to pay them, because only by regularly paying current incomes on the basis of social security taxes will they be able to mitigate those interest-related debts. I think it's one good thing you can expect in the 2009 budget. It seems to me that a good proposal made by the Resort Ministry is to give incentives to those companies and business entities that are more likely to settle these underlying debts and it is said that if those debts are settled by 31.12.2008, one hundred percent write off interest, and if they settle by 31.3.2009, that percentage decreases to 75%, and if it is by the end of June, then the percentage is 50%. I think it's another good measure for economic operators to settle that basic debt as soon as possible. As far as the second law is concerned, the same is the result of what was in the earlier period, which means during the deep economic crisis that rocked this country, the debts that are related to the contributions to compulsory health insurance were created. We now have a problem with those companies and entrepreneurs who pay current incomes, simply, people who are employed with them having problems verifying their health books, because they must first settle those debts that they had previously incurred and they are difficult to have running business. It is a large number of 42 billion, but it seems to me that the bill promoter took very good care when he proposed this law, because on several occasions, and I'm going to say that later, he was protecting the interest of the state at the moment. These contributions to compulsory health insurance fall within a group of public revenues and they are governed by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and that, in the end, this debt could be brought to a standstill status, and later, if certain conditions are met, and the discharge of that debt, then a new law should be passed. That's why this law is important, too, to make it legal. What is important, the adoption of this law will allow the implementation of the Regulation on ICs in health insurance, as we know that by 31.12 this year, old medical books are valid, and since 31.12 all have to have new health books. In order for people to use mandatory healthcare rights, they must also have certified books. If they have a debt earlier, which is not paid, then people can't verify health books, and they can't use mandatory healthcare rights. I think it's very important from a humanitarian point of view and to pass one of these laws. What defines this law, in Article 3., states that all debts reached 31.12.2007 remain in the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2011, and when it comes to'resistance', it means basic debt and interest related to compulsory health insurance. Also, Article 4 defines that during this period of rest there is no charge of interest on both the debt and interest that have been created until then. The important thing is that the possibility is given, that if health insurance obligations are regularly met between January 1st 2008 and December 31st 2011, then only 31st 2011 is the condition for the discharge of the debt. We have to admit, these are three or four years where the Ministry of Finance and the State will, in a way, force entrepreneurs and businessmen to pay these contributions, and therefore they are safe sources of revenue in the budget, and it seems to me that this law is very important on that side. The other thing that's important is that those who apply, not fulfil their obligations, will have criminal standards. This means that they will have to pay the debt for which they asked for a stay and leave until 31.12.2007 as well as the charged interest in that period of several years, which I think is very important, so the state will not lose anything at that time. It's a simple procedure to apply for this. It is indeed a possibility that any economic operator in the territory of the Serbian state can take advantage of this possibility that the state should take advantage of. I think it's very easy to solve. What these laws need is a positive effect on a few things. The first thing is to implement the Health Protection Act. The other thing is, insurance companies who have not regularly paid contributions to health insurance that are able to verify the health book and use the rights given to them by the Basic Health Protection Act. It is also possible to place the debts on the moratorium, i.e. it has the right to keep the debts still until 31.12.2011, which means discharging the economy during this period. The third thing is that the state is given the opportunity to stimulate businesses to pay their current contributions, and that means surely financing budgets. What is often asked as a question, that is, is this fair and perfectly correct to others who have regularly reconciled these obligations so far. Just to be open, it's not correct, but when you look at all the positive features of this law, which I just said, that it's helping the population, that, on the other hand, the coming economic crisis that's coming is simply, we have to relieve the economy and we have to sort of make it easier for our subjects to attract. They're pulling some stuff that happened maybe even 10 years ago, then we really need to say that this is a good thing. After all, if we want citizens to be able to use mandatory healthcare rights, then we need to pass this law. Therefore, the G17 plus and the G17 plus MP Group in the voting day will support these two laws. I also ask the other MPs, in the interest of the economy and the citizens, to support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5817	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are finishing our work in the afternoon. I set a break until 3:00 p.m., when the afternoon part of the session begins by continuing to apply for the word of the MPs. The first word will be given to the People's Messenger Dusan Maric, and after him the Messenger of the People Đura Muchenski. Thank you. [[After breaks – 15,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon, continuing the debate according to the application for a word in the joint principled search, on the proposals for the law in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. The first word has the People's MP Dusan Maric, followed by the MP Đura Muchenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I will talk about the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security. It's hard to read, let alone implement. In my opinion, this bill represents one in a series of examples of legal discrimination, the discrimination behind which the state, those citizens and the legal persons who perform their obligations to the state regularly and on time. In the countries of the European Union and the West, whose values are most often referred to by the ruling coalition in Serbia, citizens, legal persons who settle their obligations towards the state, especially when it comes to tax, enjoy one privileged status. They're citizens and first-class entities there. In Serbia, the situation is completely different, it wasn't great before 2000, before October 5th, but after October 5th, it's completely the opposite of the practice that exists in the European Union. In Serbia, those who regularly pay taxes are in a subordinate position to those who do not, this bill is the best proof that this is the case. Now we have a situation that, say, certain citizens settled their tax obligations two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, for that, they allocated certain funds. Those who didn't do it, unconscious citizens, let's say, we assume they'll do it next year. The same amount of money will be paid, will not suffer any material and financial consequences because they failed to fulfil their obligations in time, however, the amount no longer has the same value, 1,000 dinars today and 1,000 dinars five years ago has a drastically different value. The same is true with citizens of Serbia who regularly settle their obligations, for example, in terms of electricity. Those citizens who regularly pay their bills are regularly in a subordinate position compared to those who do not, because always "Electro-distribution" devise some kind of programme, a debt reprogramme, so the same thing that happened in the case of taxes, that those who regularly paid the bills go up. Now get out of this financial and economic sphere into another social area. It is the same case, for example, with citizens of Serbia who agree to regularly serve a military term. They are in a subordinate position compared to those who refuse to do so because they are then regularly amnesty. The most drastic case of citizen discrimination occurs at the time of war mobilization. Unfortunately, we have such examples from 1991 to 1999. You have 1,000 citizens who have responded to a military call, accepted to defend the country, 1,000 of them lost their lives, more than 10,000 Serbian citizens were wounded and mutilated, tens of thousands of them suffered severe psychological traumas from those wars that caused them and their families to suffer. Those who refused to fulfill their highest duty, to defend their family, their homeland, those who deserted, the state has amnested from any responsibility. The reasons for law-making, among other things, states this: 'The law-making is the best way to solve problems, for the reason it is legal matter. '"This explanation would make sense if we didn't have laws that regulate this area. We have these laws, however, the problem is that these existing laws are not respected, which the competent state authorities do not provide for their implementation. It is further said: "By regulating this matter, the law gives a seven-way contribution to legal certainty and provides transparency in the conduct of tax policy. ''There is no problem here at all in transparency or intransparentity, as I said, the problem is whether legal provisions are respected and implemented or not. Then it is said: 'The law is a general legal act which is published and which creates equal rights and obligations for all entities found in the same tax and legal situation... '"This, too, is not true. This bill violates these equal rights, as I have said and cited several examples, resulting in unwitting citizens, unconscious economic operators, unconscious legal entities. The explanation of individual solutions states this: ''It is proposed that the right to write-off of interest is achieved on the basis of the requirements to be filed after meeting the prescribed conditions no later than 31 July 2009, with documentation resulting from... '" etc. What does this practically mean? This practically means that unconscious citizens and legal persons who have not settled their obligations for years are left with another additional ten months, it can be longer, it can be by the end of 2009, a total of 18 months. Let's make one comparison, let's say, one security citizen paid a tax on this social security in December 2007. At the time of the euro was 79 dinars, and today that value is 85 dinars, in July of 2000, when this last deadline, for example, could be 88 dinars, could be as it went and 188, but let's take that it would be 88 dinars, that the value of the dinar would weaken by 10%, what does that mean? This practically means that unconscious citizens will, on the same legal basis, allocate 10% of the funds to the same tax obligation than would be done by a secure citizen and a secure legal person. It is said, among other things, in the reasons for the adoption of the laws of urgency: ''This way enables the removal of harmful consequences for the residents of the debtor, the economy, entrepreneurs and natural persons, which would produce the forced collection of these unpaid public revenues. '"This is just another confirmation of this claim, therefore, that we have citizens and legal persons first and citizen and legal persons of second order. As far as urgency is concerned, if this is an urgent matter, and it is an urgent matter, if this is a good solution as the legislator claims, then there is a single question – why is this bill not found in the assembly procedure, for example, in 2001, 2003 and 2007, but waited until 2009? Based on the tax administration's data, the impact of the interest write-down by law would be around 15 billion dinars, which seems to me to be 200m euros. That no one can know alive what the number is going to be. We can only guess if one of these obligors, unconscious, will pay money or not, it's a matter of speculation. What is not a matter of speculation, which apparently is that the unconscious work of the state authorities, above all, the tax authorities, the authorities of the finance ministry, damaged the state of Serbia, practically, by 15 billion dinars. If we add these 45 billion that are mentioned on the basis of health insurance obligations, we get 60 billion dinars, or we get this budget deficit that now appears in Serbia. So if the state authorities, just these tax authorities, were to do their job in a safe way, we wouldn't have a budget deficit today and there wouldn't be a need for budget rebalance. The legislator says that the law will have a positive impact on: ''1) applicants applying for the write-off of interest based on certain public revenues, as it creates a legal basis for unsettled obligations to be settled under more favourable conditions; 2) an incentive in the development of entrepreneurship and economy, as conditions are created for fiscal discharge based on the arrival of unpaid interest, the means needed for these purposes to focus on the development of these activities. "Those who have not fulfilled their obligations have already taken advantage of those resources. Instead of investing in the 1998 budget, it is mentioned here that some of the funds were being withdrawn from the 1990s, 2004, 2005, they used those funds as crafts. You know, it claims here that people who have avoided their obligations after the law has been passed will stop avoiding them. We don't have any guarantees, but there's another danger that those who are their taxpayers, and citizens and legal persons, would settle in time, taught by this example, by this practice of breaking legal obligations at the end, can also follow the practice of these first ones so that they stop doing their obligations on time. I believe that this bill somehow contributes to the collapse and discrediting of the tax system and creates additional confusion in this area. Finally, it is said that this law will finally solve existing problems, etc. I don't think this law itself will solve anything like any other law. This law can help overcome these problems if applied. So the bottom line is law enforcement. If we apply all the laws that regulate the tax area, these problems will not arise, although they do not appear controversial then adopt the law with certain changes and additions. But in any case, it should not happen now that we have a bill that is practically in the function of unconscious citizens and unconscious legal entities. As an MP from the Great Plan, I want to take this opportunity to remind myself once again of the problem I was talking about here ten days ago. In the Great Plan, 20% of the population, one fifth of the population, that's 10,000 people, is not health insurance, according to the information I received from the management of the Great Plan municipality. These people can't go to a doctor, they can't be treated, they can't buy drugs if they don't pay. Most of them are not in a position to pay for the reason that in the Great Plan there is only one wave of privatisation and transition that was conducted under the leadership role of DS and dosovite parties of 6,000 people from their jobs j thrown into the street and most of these people are not working anywhere today. I'll give you only one example at the end. Take one construction company worker, Sveta Mladenovic, who, for example, worked 35 years, regularly paid for his health insurance. In no way should that amount be less than 10 to 15 grand. You have cases that this worker may never have gone to a doctor, or gone maybe two or three times. You also have such workers, safe citizens. But now he's in a situation where God doesn't give him the medical attention he needs, he needs to pay for the doctor, he needs to pay for the drugs, and there's no one else, and for 35 years the company has allocated funds for that particular purpose. I think that the law in some way, and this law and this other law that we adopt here in the Assembly, should be in the function of people, in the function of solving these problems, not just a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5820	The People's Messenger, Đura Muchenski, has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5821	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, is before us two legislative proposals, I will repeat once again, it is not burning to repeat and remember what we talked about today, it is the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and another proposal for a law on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. These are two important laws that need to regulate and help us solve a problem that has not been solved for years and to find a way to regulate legally the debts that exist under these two taxes and contributions, and to increase the compensation and compensation of the obligations achieved by increasing the efficiency and liquidity of the health system in our country. The law regulates how contributions to compulsory health and social security are charged. In the past period behind us, we are aware that there have been different levels of financial discipline, but we are also aware that this financial discipline strengthens, that there is a better payment and contributions and taxes that are due to be paid under the law. Also, we are aware that we also have debts that have remained unmistakable on this basis, that they extend from year to year, that they are not resolved and that they represent a burden for both the state and the contributor. Based on the data available to me as regards the payment of contributions, it can be concluded that the proposed legal solution is the most acceptable solution. I didn't use the term best, because we all know here that the best solution is to collect all these contributions, but we need to be aware of the reality of our society's situation. The only way to solve this problem is to offer some other solution that will allow all systems to function, so, among other things, the health care system, without overloading certain categories of the population and certain parts of our society that are not able to present this problem. That's why I said this was the most acceptable solution. Debt based on the contribution to health insurance at this point amounts to about 42 billion dinars, ending from 31.12.2007. The debt that appeared during this year and which will be known at the end of this calendar year should be added to that. The structure of this debt is what is in some way and why it is headed for a settlement of such a legal solution. In fact, 22.5 billion dinars are owed by farmers' insurance companies, 9.7 billion dinars are owed by self-employed workers and about 10 billion dinars are owed by employers, i.e. insurance companies on other grounds. We see that the biggest debt that extends from agriculture. We have to compare the size of that figure, so a total debt of 42 billion. The revenue of the Health Insurance Fund of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, in the material that we have received, is 172 billion, meaning that a quarter of the funds are held as the debt of insurance companies and that this is one huge number. I'm just saying this as some kind of parameter where we can compare two digits. The other thing that matters here, based on the data that I got, is that this is about a large number of insurance companies. Namely, farm-based debt, the number of insurance companies that owe on that basis amounts to about 320,000 insurance carriers, with us counting on insurance carriers, as well as members of their family, and increasing the number of people who have compulsory health insurance in this way. From another area, there are about 87,000 insurance companies in the area. What stands as a fact, it is not realistic to expect that these people will be able to settle their obligations in a real and short time period because it is a relatively large amount. Secondly, it is a large number of insurance undertakings affected by this debt if the existing legal provisions are consistently applied, especially as regards health insurance and are not able to pay at this time and if they are given the opportunity, and this legal solution is offered, they are able to regulate their debt in this way. We need to realize that agriculture and farmers have brought the greatest burden of social peace all these years and that it is part of a society where one of the reforms of this transition period are being done and that this layer and this branch of activity has not achieved satisfactory economic work so that it can regularly reconcile its obligations. That's why it's our responsibility as responsible politicians to help these people. The proposed legal solutions define the legal basis for the regulation of debts that exist under the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory health and social insurance. I would briefly refer to the proposal for a law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. This law defines the conditions under which the obligations to pay the dues and unpaid contributions for compulsory health insurance and the write-off of the debt on that basis are met. In the text of the law itself, the time limits to which the debt applies are defined, at which time interval the regular obligations need to be met, as well as what is the time interval after which debt write-offs will take place. I think it is necessary to accept the amendments that will regulate this law on the current calendar. The payer of the contribution must submit a written request to the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. In that written request, it must specify the data on the amount of the calculated and unpaid contribution made by 31.12.2007, unless the amendment changes that date. If the applicant has an employee, he is also obliged to deliver with that list the list of insurance undertakings to which the unpaid contribution relates. The tax administration is obliged to check the data and to make a solution to determine the total amount of debt and to resolve debt suspension. The applicant shall be obliged to regularly settle his current obligations on the basis of these outstanding contributions. Only if he regularly appeases his current obligations will he get the condition that the debt is cancelled after 31.12.2011. Also, the law defines the conditions under which the mandatory payment procedure is initiated if the payer, or the applicant, does not settle his or her regular obligations. The very purpose of adopting this law is to improve the collection and liquidity of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and thus to indirectly improve health care, as well as to provide health care to one significant part of the population, above all, farmers, as well as private entrepreneurs. When it comes to the fact that it is 42 billion dinars, that it is the largest part of farmers, about 320,000, the conclusion is that it is not realistic to expect them to settle their debt within an acceptable period if there is a different way of regulating their debt. It is therefore important to show solidarity, social responsibility and to give these people the right to health care, but to create conditions for them to pay their obligations regularly. In this way we show that we have not forgotten solidarity, but that we are also responsible for the functioning of this country's health and legal system, and we consider this to be the conduct of socially responsible policies. That is why the MEP Group for European Serbia will vote in favour of the law, that is, these two laws. I also call on other parliamentary groups in this House to support these laws, because this is not about politics, it's about solidarity. That should put us together, not separate us. The last sentence I said was in my native language and the translation reads – it should bring us together, not separate us. Sometimes we don't have to speak the same language without understanding, solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5822	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5823	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two legislative projects before us, which the proposer says are a legal basis for cleaning tax and financial balances, as well as a fund balance, since it enters the matter of certain funds as well. The first law is the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, the second is the draft law on the restocking and write-off of debt based on the contribution to compulsory health insurance. The general conclusion is that, in both cases, it is legal projects that have a real basis. The real basis is to settle certain state obligations, taxes and contributions. The promoter said it was about commitments that were made back in the 1990s, and it's just surprising how in the tax administration it could have suffered this kind of situation? How in tax balances, as well as fund balances, and in total tax balances and contributions, could such a long period of time suffer such a condition that certain legal projects such as this one are not subject to? However, the SRS has objections to such legal projects. Why? Because we don't have the point. We know it's about certain dubiosis, unmistakable obligations, financial indiscipline, but we don't know on what basis they've come from. We don't know who these customers are. In the proposal for a law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, we see that obligations that are not met relate to the insured amounts of farmers of 22 billion 506 million dinars, in independent operations, entrepreneurs, nine billion 778, and in employers ten billion, a total of 42 billion. These amounts were generated in a different period. It's understandable for a farmer, but it's financial indiscipline. Someone calmed down neatly, someone didn't. It is the obligation of the state, and we have the Tax Act, the Law on Public Revenue and Expension, the Tax Procedure and the Tax Administration, the Law on General Administrative Procedure and numerous other legal projects that leave us with enough space to resolve it, not to go to these legal projects. It was certainly a legal standoff that these problems that occurred in the bill were resolved by write-offs, as we will now write off or by forced payment, which is foreseen by legal projects. We didn't do either, and then we came to this position to forgive everyone through these two legal projects. What's an SRS remark? In practice, we had, and this is particularly typical of the privatisation period when individual privatised enterprises were freed from certain already falsified, already achieved obligations, which relate to fuel, spent electricity, loans, etc. You know very well when I tell you it's about sugars and MK Comer, when the government made its decision, that it freed the buyer of sugarcane and thus caused damage in the budget, because it freed that company that had to make the purchase contract, among other things, and made the commitment. I remember the situation with Sartid, the million-dollar sum, it's a billion-dollar deal, what the Sartid credit obligations were, that came with the interest, and so on, all that was erased from the balance. The buyer is free to pay his dues. The state had power here, just because it's politics, just because it's abuse, just because it's political moves in which "non-responsible individuals" participated, so I don't go any rougher. Then it was resolved very quickly, the government's decision so let's get rid of it. Now we're suffering this weight that's been in balance for 15, 18, 12, 5 years, we've suffered and only now have we found the strength to do it through this legal project. When we talk about certain benefits that we give to natural and legal persons, we have to say in what situation we write it off. We write off the moment we have both deficits in the budget, deficits and the PIO Fund, and deficits in the Health Insurance Fund. Did we get a good look? Is this the right time and did we have to do it through this congregation project or could we do it through the powers that give us the law? I mentioned several laws that certainly give us legal stops for non-freedom, rather than the conduct of administrative proceedings and the release of what we are told by existing legislation. The objection of the SRS comes from the legal basis for all of this, in the legal projects that you have brought before MPs you have not clearly stated in the reasons – what is the basis we are talking about, the effect that we are going to produce is 15 billion euros, why haven't we elaborated it? We have a number of legal projects, even, says the company profit tax law, someone has achieved profits in some period of time as a business, the tax administration has failed to collect it, and now it has become difficult and we will now release it through this kind of liberation. If we had a more orderly tax administration, if we had applied all the necessary measures that envision legal projects, then we would have charged it easily. Not to mention other laws and legal projects relating to the Heritage Tax and Gifts Act in the transfer of absolute rights, etc., financial transactions, we did not respond in time. Here we must mention and take a critical look at the current authorities and current authorities, especially since 2000, which have not given attention enough. Our mouths were full of stories about how we have financial discipline, how we have monetary discipline, and this just indicates that we have no tax discipline, no fiscal discipline. What's the SRS proposal? These two draft laws must be complemented by adequate arguments, relating to precisely unsecured tax obligations and obligations based on contributions per year, by users, precisely executed, not synthetically demonstrated size, but analytically demonstrated by all users with precisely established principals and precisely established interest rates, which occurred per year and then systematically implemented for each year, and then we have a more orderly review. This way, the SRS can't accept these two bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5824	The word is given by MP Djordje Milicevic, followed by MP Milan M. Nikolic. The time available to the parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5825	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, Mrs Dragutinovic, Finance Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support these two draft laws, because we believe that the reasons for their adoption are justified, and, on the other hand, the objectives that want to be achieved by accepting these two proposals can certainly be achieved. We consider a very brave and sober move to propose a law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security at the time when budget rebalancing is proposed, which increases the budget deficit. According to the tax administration, the rate of interest written down by around 15 billion dinars represents a third of the budget deficit, however, a good estimate has certainly been made that the loss in public revenues will have a positive effect at the moment and have a stimulating impact on public revenue collection in the coming period. I personally have certain dilemmas and, above all, it seems to me, we punish taxpayers who regularly settle their obligations on the basis of taxes and contributions. It is incorrectly prescribed what happens to taxpayers who have been forced by the tax administration to collect all obligations, including interest, which brings them into an unequal position with taxpayers who are not charged with those obligations. The proposed provisions are not exactly in line with the market economy and the game, but I believe that even those with problems at the moment this government is giving the last chance, and whoever does not realise this benefit is not capable of bringing it into practice. I propose that deadlines for submission be required to comply with both draft laws, because in the Law on the write-off of interest is the deadline of 31 July 2009, it seems to me, and in the case of a contribution of 90 days from the date of entry into force of the law. This is, however, a short-term measure, and we are convinced that the government will do a deeper analysis in the next period of time and pay greater attention to this problem, in order to get an answer to the question – why are businesses in this situation, that by the law of the envisaged obligations they cannot carry out? Is this about non-discipline or are the reasons for economic policy? The proposal we have today is, in fact, just State intervention. In our view, the Law on the Retirement and write-off of Debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance is far more important. The effects, i.e. debts on the basis of unpaid contributions for compulsory health insurance are about 42 billion dinars on 31.12.2007, almost half of the debt of about 22.5 billion are the obligations of farmers, and we all know what our situation is in agriculture, rural and nursing households. Speaking to our hosts, I have to say, no one complained about the amount of taxes, they mainly pointed to social security and pension contributions. That's what I've come to see since the income of the city budget, from the city from which I come, Valjeva, is less than 1% of the total tax revenue for 2008 based on agricultural taxes. Also, all the measures based on the tax write-offs of hosts based on the elemental disasters that have hit this area a lot, have not helped our hosts greatly. Given that the agrarian is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is time for something different. Today's agricultural policy, today's economic power of peasants, makes it impossible for him to wear and regulate his legal obligations. We need new solutions through a new agrarian but also social policy. We must try one way, I must say, to valorize the entire contribution of the Serbian peasant. We are convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia will find a system solution on this line. As a result, I believe that the proposed rate of standstill and write-off of debt based on contributions to compulsory health insurance, much more relevant, is only interested in whether or not the Fund or you, Ministers, have the information on how many taxpayers will apply, or how many members of the family, Serbian citizens in the past year could not exercise their rights. The SPS and the JS support the bill's amendment to the law to ensure that citizens exercise their rights on the basis of compulsory health insurance, i.e. that citizens can verify the health book, although the contributors did not regularly pay contributions to compulsory health insurance. Looking politically, our programme goal is free health care for all citizens, not just the privilege of the rich. I also have to say that, never a contribution to a farmer's health insurance paid for their health care and members of their families, but they had mandatory health care. In the past few years, the branches of the Republic Health Insurance Office have been certified by insurance companies, with a lot of negative effects. These changes would eliminate subjective evaluations of individuals from branches and prevent abuses. Obligors who were unable to pay their dues neatly, the debt was constantly increasing, with interest first being paid for the untimely execution of the payment, and debt chief continues to increase. In addition, the payment of commitments for the current year was primarily focused on the repayment of the debt from the previous period, so that the bonds could not possibly exercise their rights in the current year. This law provides them with the opportunity to meet their obligation in the current year, if they apply for a debt reprogramme from the previous period, achieve their own rights and their members on the basis of health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5826	The word has a folk MP Milan M. Nikolic, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5827	Dear People's MPs, representatives of the Government, respected citizens, we are considering these two draft laws, the law on the write-off of claims relating to health insurance, as well as one way to write-off interest on taxes, which explains that during the 1990s, there has been an accumulation of these claims. It is argued that the analysis of the situation has led to the knowledge that citizens, as well as economic operators, are unable to make a quick and effective payment of commitments, so that a single law-making solution has been approached to help resolve it. This isn't the first time a legal act has dealt with any problems. We've had this before when we've been putting together an internship in those firms where he hasn't been, so the workers can retire. When it comes to the 1990-2007 period, I would still separate it into this period from 2000. In that period, we know what happened: the collapse of the former state, the wars, the sanctions. We know how it worked under sanctions, that that way there was a spill of property from social enterprises into private hands. We know what happened in 1999 -- bombings, bombings from those countries you're now seeking, to get into their arms as soon as possible. The damage to NATO bombing was estimated to have been about 30 billion euros. That's a lot of money. We had a budget yesterday, that's about five annual budgets. I'm sure it had to have an impact on the economic situation. What after the October 5, 2000 revolution? It came to power that those who promised to change everything, that there would be prosperity. We've got privatisations, we can count on our fingers the effects of the privatisations that have been made. There are few companies that have continued to work after privatisation, to deal with production, and therefore to have an economic improvement. Three categories are mentioned here: farmers, independent action and other entrepreneurs. Farmers were told it was the most tolerated category in the past. I think there are those who could pay, but probably learned from the previous period, they didn't pay for it knowingly. This third category, which mentions some 10 billion dinars, is the other entrepreneurs, and most of them are large companies that are not privatized, which are under the auspices of the government. Therefore, by releasing that part of the obligation to privatize, one who buys is given a gift. I come from a firm that settled its obligations neatly, so the question arises, not only for my firm, but for all those honest and honest businessmen and individuals who have settled their obligations, you know that in some situations, if they participate in tenders, that it is an obligation to submit proof that all obligations to the state have been settled. These aforementioned large companies, they even had a promise in some cases, if they deliver a contract that they had concluded a job, that the government would help them, so that they were involved in tenders, but they were going with dumping prices, so that they would certainly get the job, and thus also get the government's funds. It was correct here that for those companies that are regularly in the last period, during this period that is predicted to be released, they paid off, that in the next four years they do not pay, that they are equal to those that are now being released. What's the effect? First, the effect is that people will be able to verify health books, and the second effect, it says in an explanation, which will encourage economic operators to deal with production, to revive, and hence the cash flow. It's some kind of unscathed lending or, on the other hand, giving off a non-refundable loan. I believe that this law, respecting all the problems related to the situation in our society, which is the character of the ruling majority, is not correct in relation to the subjects who regularly reconciled it. In the next period, it should be borne in mind that such entities are being helped because they are, in this way, literally, deceived.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5828	People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5829	Article 225 and Article 226, issue for the competent authorities, what measures will be taken to protect freedom of information and the safety of journalists when it comes to the case that I will present, which is linked to the case of Stanka Subotica-Canneta? You know that Subotic is charged with smuggling cigarettes in front of our organs, which has damaged the country for 20m euros, that he is on the run, to live on the Swiss-Moscow route. Subotic is also one of the main suspects in Croatia for the liquidation of editors and owners of the Croatian weekly "Nacional" Ivo Pukanic and his associate, Nika Franic, because he has written for years about Subotic's powerful political protectors, about Subotic's cigarette smuggling. That was the reason Subotic ended up on the international Interpol warrant. Recently, a cigarette smuggling indictment was brought against Sutotic in Italy, and Pukanic was one of the most important witnesses in the process. Police Minister Ivica Dacic announced he is ready to help Croatia search for the murderers of Ivo Pukanic. That statement was certainly not made by chance. We are interested in the story of Stanko Subotic because of his powerful associates and political protectors in our country and because of their willingness to liquidate those who stand in the way of their business interests. We were already saying that Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic went into open play on the famous journalist TV "Palma" by Mrs Miletovic only because she allowed her guest on the show, and our MP Jadranka Vukovic to present the facts about Nikolic and Vukic's connections with the tycoons and the facts about taking enormous amounts of money. After the murder of Ivo Pukanic, Mrs Miletovic's apartment door was glued to number 2 as a reminder that she was next on the liquidation list. We know reliably that Aleksandar Vukic has met with Stanko Subotic-Cannet several times, and one of those meetings was also in Moscow. We know reliably that Vukic received 1m euros from Sutotic. We are seriously afraid for Mrs Miletovic's life. We think her life is in danger and we present the facts that we know in the public and ask the authorities to determine whether Mrs Miletovic is behind these threats by Aleksandar Vukic with her powerful connections, specifically Stanko Sutotic. The competent authorities should examine how many times Vukic met with Stanko Subotic-Canet, why and how much money he took. Today in Serbia, terror and dictatorship rule, and anyone who expresses an opinion contrary to the opinions of certain powerful structures, which are American and British interests, and the interests of the tycoon, anyone who tries to do so is in danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5830	The word has been given by MP Dragan Vujadinovic, followed by National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5831	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honors Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, I will first take a few minutes to arbitration, but unbiasedly, on pension issues, which are otherwise one of the reference points in a joint debate under these two laws. Of course, I will use and warmly recommend that everyone use their method – figures in front of politics. So here's what the book says about pensions. She says that in 2000, the average earnings were 57 euros and the average pension of 46.5 euros and that the relationship was 81.5%. Not to bid by age, in 2004, 2005 when the average earnings in 2004 were 193.1 euros and the pension of 126.7 euros, the ratio of 65.6. This is a significant shift in the relationship between average pension and salary. In 2005, the salary was 209.9 euros and 137.9 euros in pension, 65.7 ratio. In 2006, and you know well why, due to increased public spending, profits in public spending, this relationship deteriorated dramatically, in 2006, the average profit was net of 274.8 euros, the average pension of 146 euros, the ratio of 53.1%. There's been a major deterioration, not because of the pensions' downfall, but because of the unreal, at that moment, the lightning growth of the profits, first of all, in the public sector. In 2007, the balance was maintained, the average earnings were EUR 347.1 and the average pension of 187.5 euros, the ratio of 54%. In 2008, real projections, 400 euros in earnings and about 240 pensions, ranging from 58% to 60%. In this year, we all need to know that, it says in this book called rebalancing, the extraordinary alignment of 1.1.2008 11.5% of pensions, in April regular alignment with the cost of life and by methodology 4.3%, in the tenth month the new regular alignment of 3.25% and the extraordinary alignment in the eleventh month is 10%. That's when the geometric rate of 1.32% increase is applied nominally since the beginning of the year. If we take inflation to be projected, 10.5 is a real increase in pensions of 19.5%. If we take that, according to those pessimistic forecasts, the inflation rate will be 12%, and we put that in relation to the nominal increase, we have a real increase of 17.9%. We need to know, colleagues, both left and right, that at the level of pensions and pay, we are far above the reference environment, which are, I repeat, Macedonia, BiH, Bulgaria, Romania and Montenegro, even above the EU countries, well above 30% on average salaries and on average pensions. In that sense, I mean neutrally, despite having categories of people that are hard to survive, we cannot compare with Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, it takes another five years to work to compare to those countries. We have to and can go with countries in a close environment that are at a similar economic level. Instead of saying'Shame on you', we should say, 'Congratulations, Mr. Krkobaci! Because he put his reference group in a better position than his fellow environmentalists. It's really like that. No one can fight with other arguments, because they're the only arguments, they're the figures. There are no other numbers. What, personally, I think is wrong by Mr. Krkobibic and the whole government and what needs to be fixed, which is, which is, which is not the method of vice-proportional increase: for lower pensions, a greater increase in percentage, and for more pensions vice versa, less increase or no increase. However, we have 2009 to correct this, that the basic pensions increase with an extraordinary increase, i.e. to restructure the basis of pensions in Serbia. In the second part, I'll talk about the law. I apologize for this trip, but I think I felt I needed to possibly arbitration. I suppose, unbiased. The first law, the write-off of interest on ten taxes, is practically done in accordance with IAS and IFRSs, i.e. international accounting standards and international standards of financial reporting that they say – do not hold, should not be held in balances of unrealistic claims. They demand it, even. The state auditory house would probably say – put aside those claims that came before 2000, you can't charge them. We should have done that a long time ago and put in a model: a trustee, a state, normally, shouldn't write off infinitely and one-timely. The state said - I'll write off your interest on the condition that you pay me back my main debt in those terms and those deadlines, 100% we'll write off the interest if you pay off by the end of 2008, in the first quarter, if 75%, and by the end of the second quarter 50%. Maybe the time will come, I think it will come, to write down completely, and a large number of these taxpayers for taxes and contributions, maybe they're in a completely bad position, bankruptcy, liquidation, maybe they'll have to be written off by force of opportunity. This is one regular economic attempt. It is, in the first law, an economic balance method, which is completely regulated and should only have been before, I think it was at the beginning of last year but our developments and political problems and developments conditioned that this law waits for the end of 2008. I don't think there's any imbalance, because we can't charge, and yet, on the other hand, in the current period, the state has to try all possible instruments to secure the current charge, especially at the so-called. Where some of our famous tycoons, we know them from the media, they even transfer obligations from one legal person to another and avoid tax obligations for taxes and contributions, as well as taxes on profits and all other taxes. That's the so-called. Legal personality breach. I think these two last laws that we passed, the Law on the confiscation of property from individuals and the Law on Criminal Responsibility of Legal Persons, will make a positive contribution in this sense, so that people in the current period do not play with the state. My colleagues said that we put people in an unequal position, in terms of debt, from the pre-2000s. Oh, that's not true! We should fight to try to charge absolutely all taxes and contributions during this ongoing period of all the instruments of the rule of law, either on profits or taxes on profits, VAT and all other tax obligations. The second law, the Law on Restraint and Deletation of Debt on the basis of compulsory health insurance amounting to 6.15% on the employee's burden and 6.15% on the employer's burden. This is not about the economic category, gentlemen, this is about the pure humanitarian category. That's why I don't think it's advisable for anyone, I don't think it's politically advisable for us to protest – that we have some grudges against this law. For who are these bonds that have not been paid - peasants, gentlemen, peasants. We make peasants because they can't pay, because their incomes are still such that they can't compete with even real sector employees or the public sector. In that sense, it is indeed a welcome law, which is a little late, but according to that people – better ever than never, we cannot wait any longer. That is why it is necessary to adopt this law, because its main point is – if you have paid the current obligations during a three or four-year standstill period, it is written off to you until then. It's for the villagers' salvation, people. You've all been in the field. It's for the villagers' salvation. If he, starting on 1 January 2009, pays monthly or annually those 18,000 for health insurance, and all of this is regular, confirms the book, has health care, and does it all by 2011, he will get the conditions to write off all of this that he hasn't paid for in five or six years. So what do we want more? We don't have a better motto and I think we should support it. Finally, I would suggest that we, or MPs in this National Assembly, voted for the Russian oil and gas agreement with 214 – for, I think for these two laws should be 224 – for, because that is why we do not have why, why we do not want what is better to support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5832	The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. After that, MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5833	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I would like to refer to the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of taxes and contributions to compulsory social security. The aim of the bill is to ensure that all legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons who for years do not settle their obligations on the basis of some taxes and contributions to freedom are not due, but rather, interest on the total debt. So, the debtors will have to pay the debt, but not interest, which is a huge discharge. It is a shame that the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, did not explain in principle in this bill to the MPs, but also to the public, what the benefits of this law are, but also to whether there are any costs. Because in the light of the bill's proposal, it says that law enforcement should not create additional costs for citizens and businesses. The words "shouldn't" open room for doubt, and then in the same explanation there is a populist sentence that says – although this measure means loss in public revenues, it will relieve the debtors and create conditions for the development of economy and entrepreneurship, since it is reportedly the owners of the company that will invest in the development of businesses and in the creation of new jobs. This little reminds us of that pre-election promise to open 200,000 new jobs. I sincerely hope that this government has some other plans and programmes on how this promise will come true, because in this way it certainly won't. The explanation also says, and based on the tax administration's data, the impact of the interest write-off will be around 15 billion dinars. However, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Jovan Krkobibic gave an interview for one of our magazines, which is the latest number, where he also speaks about the write-off of debts. In fact, he says it is a public secret that there are a lot of enterprises that have owed the state for years for unpaid taxes and contributions. Who are the biggest debtors and will the state make them pay their debts? Next says Mr. Krkobbic – there are thousands of companies, not all of them can be counted, private and state-owned debt is 34 billion dinars, that is their basic debt. The other day, he says, the government decided to write off 53 billion dinar interest on those who pay the basic debt. If they wanted to pay him, they wouldn't have waited for punishment and interest. Many debtors no longer exist, and some are paid off due to privatisation. I'll finish by asking two questions, I think they're tax issues. 1) What are these companies that will be freed from paying enormous interest because they did not meet their obligations in time? 2) How much is this really the amount, is it 15 billion, as the bill explains, or is it 54 billion, according to the Deputy Prime Minister? There's no reason we shouldn't trust him on that information, either. So, how much less will it be in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5834	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. After that, MP Gordana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5835	Dear Vice-Presidents, the honourable minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, will refer to the draft law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. I think it's a very good law that will primarily benefit from the development of private entrepreneurship, in areas that are underdeveloped, which are marginal and where I come from. This proposal for a law would create conditions for the application and implementation of the Health Insurance Act, in the absence of regular contributions from contributors to contributions for compulsory health insurance, provided that the conditions for the certification of a health certificate, i.e. special medical protection instruments, and that employers start regular payment of current obligations on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. The implementation of the above would increase the current revenues of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and, on the basis of the regular payment of the current liabilities of the payment of contributions by the debtor. We know that the right to health care, the right to profit compensation during temporary prevention of work, the right to compensation for transport costs in relation to the use of healthcare can only be effected on the basis of a certified health certificate, i.e. special documents, and in order for the book to be certified, the contribution to compulsory health insurance must be paid. There's an exception to emergency health care. There are also a large number of taxpayers who have failed to settle multi-year debts based on contributions to compulsory health insurance. This, above all, affects our agricultural producers and these small, small, private entrepreneurs working in areas such as eastern Serbia, Southeast Serbia, who are not in an equal position as private entrepreneurs in large cities. What's good and what makes this government socially responsible is this very part of the fact that if all the obligations start to be paid by the law within the deadline, they will practically cancel out in the next period. With this, when all this is over, there are conditions for these private entrepreneurs in undeveloped areas to have an equal relationship, they have equal participation that they can participate first in the loan contests through the Development Fund, in which I specifically helped them with my neighborhood, for the municipality of Kučevo where I come from. Our parliamentary group will support this law, and I expect all parliamentary groups in this assembly to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5836	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic, and after that, MP Zoran Kasalovic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5837	There are two laws ahead of us, but I will also try my attention and also the attention of those present here to focus on the draft law on the settlement and write-off of debt based on the contribution to compulsory health insurance, which the government, or the Ministry of Health, proposed by an urgent procedure to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Debtants for compulsory social security all arrived and outstanding debts on 31 December 2007 under the draft law will be at peace, starting from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2011. Restoring debt would allow those who did not pay contributions to verify the health certificate, or that they could be treated. The Health Insurance Act stipulates that health books are certified by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but only on the basis of evidence of a paid contribution to health insurance. A security guard can't verify a health book if there's debts, and there's a lot of them. According to current records, citizens owe 24 billion dinars for mandatory social security. Among the companies that owe are large giants, such as RTB Bor, the engine industry and tractor Rakovica, Rembas Mine in Resavica, etc., as we heard from previous speakers. The government's motion to hold back the debt would solve this problem by holding back the old debt, they could and would have to settle current obligations, and insurance companies could verify health books and treat themselves. If the debtors settled regularly until 2011, according to the government's proposal, the debts not charged until March 31st, 2007 would be cancelled. I don't know if she's still director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, but the other day, Mrs. Svetlana Vukajlović said - they won't be able to verify health books, or they won't be able to treat those who don't have certified health books. The SRS doesn't understand why the debt is forgiven from 2000 until the end of 2007? How is it possible that someone who works can't verify a health book and can't be treated? How is it possible that the state has not paid contributions to social, health and pension insurance since 2000? There are three ministers here, one missing, one health minister, so please answer this question. In 2000, the democratic governments were able to meet their insurance companies so they could be treated, since they do not have the possibility of being treated because they do not have certified health books. I, as a doctor, can't ask a question and not look back on the second part of this law that applies to people who don't have certified medical books, so doctors can't even try to provide healthcare to people who don't have certified medical books. What does that mean? If they get help, they'll be charged and possibly convicted of bribery or corruption. This law is completely contrary to the Hippocrates Code of Ethical Conduct of Doctors. A representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, and Mrs. Finance, I ask – how will doctors who come to the health care center, the health center or the emergency center of a person who is vitally at risk, not to list all of whom can be threatened, who is in a state of which, who has had a car accident, who has a threatening heart attack, have bleeding, whether these doctors will not provide medical attention or, if they provide it, will they be not rewarded but otherwise accused? Should doctors, acting under this law, let a man die or kill himself? We know there are a lot of suicides, which are our patients every day. I find this law unacceptable for all citizens of Serbia, as well as for doctors of health institutions. The law is full of holes, so both abuse and corruption are possible. The law is unfair to Serbian citizens who regularly paid social security contributions and, also, a message that they should not be paid regularly because the state will give the opportunity every few days to forgive debts – not only for health insurance, but also for gas and utility, etc. Dear citizens of Serbia, know that by proposing this law, the ruling coalition is once again trying and aims to falsely Serbia and false humanism deceive the Serbian people so that the Serbian government can present itself as social, democratic and human. Don't let it happen again, just like in a pre-election campaign, fraud, just like the pensioners. Dear citizens of Serbia, know that you are victims of pension and social and health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5838	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5839	Dear fellow Members of the People, I use my right to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226 to ask the question not only to the competent state authorities who are legally authorized to care for our security but also to ask you, the MPs, or the National Assembly. Is it possible that you can remain silent at the presentation of your colleague Elena Christmas-Talian, so that no one is harmonising with that statement and coming out for this pay phone and giving their position on the matter? So, we are witnessing what happened to Pukanic in Croatia, we are witnesses, a few days ago we informed you about what happened to Mr. Eric, the editor-in-chief of "Geopoliticals", and here are the threats to Mrs. Oliveri Miletović, so I ask you, do you find anything that binds, say, Mr. Eric and Mrs. Miletović? If you've been following their work, if you're reading 'Geopoliticals', and I'm guessing as politicians you have to read such literature, you should know that it's a list that also accounts for national interests, so it's national and patriotic. Ms. Miletovic, as one of the few journalists who remained her own and self-aware, is also doing her job and is obviously unwanted. Do we need these people to support us or do we have to let them scream as anyone gets here? This morning, a MP came out for this pay phone and told you what kind of message he received and what threat Mr. Nikolic made. And that's what you stayed silent about. Is it possible for us to be at peace with such things and that no one has a single word of condemnation? What are we, Serbian radicals, in charge here as "Calimer" to shout: injustice, injustice?- I'm sorry. No, we're going out to warn you of these negative phenomena and that these people, as far as we can, are somehow protected by informing the public that their safety is being compromised. Come on, please, show some political maturity, some sense of justice. Protect those people, too. It's the only way I can accept that we're in an institution that takes care of it, because everything that's national today, everything that's prefix patriotic, in this society, is doomed to failure, persecution, various threats. Some think it's possible to buy all these journalists or editors of these newspapers, which they can't buy, this way, they're persecuting. Not everything is for sale in this country, something can be bought, something can't be bought, but who are these people who are threatening. I think we've told you enough these days about them and why and how. Time will tell. And you open your eyes a little, I feel the need for Mr. Eric and Mrs. Olivera Miletovic to support what Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian said before. I would be very happy if someone from some parliamentary group would draw attention to the authorities, and also to those who have ties to the tycoons, above all, to those they called out, which is Nikolic and Vukic, those from this political party "take everything that life gives you".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5840	The word has a national emissary of Elena Christmas-Talian. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5841	Article 225 and Article 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a question for the authorities – to what extent is foreign ambassadors and foreign intelligence involved in political life in Serbia? In the media sphere, the situation is next. Most of them are media, and they are regimeally, under absolute control of America and Britain. All those who are nationally oriented and who protect national interests are under a media blockade. It feels very clear on its back of the SRS, but I suppose most citizens do not know, due to the media blockade, that every day at 17 hours in the Republic Square, anti-region protests are being held in the organisation of patriotic NGOs that began after the shameful arrest of Radovan Karadzic. Today, 100 days of anti-region protests are marked, also at 17 o'clock in the Republic Square. Requests from the protest will be submitted to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The requirements are (1) to amend the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal in order to suspend all extraditions to this tribunal, 2) to judge the war crimes indictees exclusively in Serbia, 3) to assist the prisoners in The Hague, 4) to suspend negotiations on Serbia's entry into the European Union, for sending the Eulex occupation mission to Kosovo and Metohija beyond the United Nations and the Republic of Serbia, as well as to recognise the independence of the southern Serbian province by the majority of the countries of the European Union, 5) to close the Government's Office for European Integration, and (the last request) 6) to suspend the disastrous reform of the Army of Serbia under NATO control, the Office of NATO from the Ministry of Defence and each state institution in the future, immediately suspending all processes aimed at Serbia's NATO integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5842	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The SPS-JS Group is available for another two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5843	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is well known in the tax theory, so-called The principle of 'tax system stability', which states that without great need, there is no need to resort to frequent tax reforms, because the business world wants the stability of the tax regime in terms of planning its business moves, hence, and known to the maxes – old taxes are better than new ones. These two laws, which are the subject of the debate, propose partial measures in terms of relief, and from the point of view of the length of the length of these reliefs, they go in the direction of providing financial relief under conditions of unfavourable circumstances of a certain number of contributions to compulsory health insurance, as well as interest on commitments on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social insurance by 31.12.2007. It is perfectly justified to allow the legislation without prejudice to the stability of the tax system, so that insurance who did not regularly pay contributions to compulsory health insurance creates conditions for the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights, that conditions are created for insurance, i.e. employers, to start paying current obligations on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, i.e. if they meet the requirements laid down by law to write off debt in general, i.e. interest in a fixed percentage amount, in order to disburse economic operators from the previous period and create conditions for better economic activity of the same. Therefore, the proposed legal solutions are good and justified, with clear and precise objectives and, in my opinion, since they are partial and temporary solutions, it is difficult or, slightly speaking, incorrectly, to claim that certain economic operators, i.e. bonds that settled their obligations, were therefore able to reconcile their obligations, because, in the end, they still used their rights, had certified health books and applied their rights, unlike those other ones who and the target group of this law, who were not from a variety of opportunities to pay for their obligations, so they could not apply certain rights. Given the time limit, there are only two other suggestions. That, first of all, applies to agricultural insurance companies. I hope that the debate in particular will show that these insurance companies, in my opinion, should be able to launch a debt write-off procedure based on the contribution to compulsory health insurance by the tax administration, as it is a population mainly living in rural areas, are often under-informed and incompletely informed of existing legal solutions related to them. Otherwise, I am convinced that there would be no real effect on these insurance companies, and there would be significant additional costs caused by the exercise of the rights proposed. Just one more suggestion. I would also like to hope that the Resort Ministry of the Vode Vojvodine, modelled by this law, therefore, on the write-off of interest, can recommend that enormously high interest on disposal fees, too, be resolved and written off on this similar basis, because farmers pay huge obligations on this basis and for them would be a significant relief. With these two suggestions, I think these are good legal solutions and they need to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5844	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we expected the Minister to tell us the first thing today about these two laws, but we remained for it to be denied. We are in doubt whether the minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, fought in the government these days around these laws, because yesterday he said that there was a fight in the government for everything and everything, for every regulation and for every law. The SRS has pointed out since the adoption of laws dealing with the topic in 2001, which will lead to certain provisions of the law. Serbia's government has now come to an impasse precisely thanks to its blind running with laws prescribed by EU member states. Now we ask ourselves, if so many of our citizens don't have health insurance, because companies and individuals don't pay contributions, if so many people don't have pension and social security, is it possible that we belong in Africa and not in the European Union? The question is, how can the state function, if one such large number of citizens have left, in some way, illegal? These two draft laws show us another hidden need, that the state wants to drain every penny of Serbia's citizens, from businesses, in order to meet the unrealistic demands of its coalition partners in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We've already heard that story about an increase in pensions, but for a delayed period of three years, that is, until they pass their term of office. The government has come up with a way to do this, or where there are the most obliged, which is, above all, health insurance and these are contributions to compulsory pension and social security. It is true that interest has led to an enormous debt of taxpayers, which they cannot possibly pay. Here, first of all, I mean farmers who are not in a working relationship and whose debts exceed hundreds of thousands of dinars. This applies to the PIO farmer. For years, this debt has increased, which is because of annual commitments, which due to interest, so that citizens, i.e. those who consider themselves farmers living in the country, who deal with agriculture, have experienced the debt as a noose around their necks. I'm talking about this category of taxpayers who are the most endangered. The SRS has often tried to intervene with amendments in the adoption of certain tax laws, to write off the debt, but without success. It is not pleasant to have a rural household come up with solutions to those obligations for two or two family members, who individually amount to over 200,000 dinars per year. And now that farmer needs to think about how and how to sow fields, how to process land or how to educate children, and how to pay that huge debt. The write-off would somewhat reduce the debt mentioned, but it would remain a much larger part that could still not be paid. Today it's hard to live, and there's absolutely nothing there. Half of Serbia is empty, villages are dying, entire areas remain uninhabited, and in villages where there are mostly over 70-year-olds. The real move of the government would be to write off the entire debt, especially to farmers who make some kind of production, not to mention their needs and who keep our living space by staying on their hearths. After that, a law whose basic principle would be based on volunteering should be passed when it comes to PIO farmers. This has not been the case so far, but people have been enrolled in bonds only on the basis of this if they are not in a working relationship. Someone seems to have asked Mrs. Minister yesterday if she ever managed to walk Serbia? Does he know how hard the people live? Does he know that an army of unemployed with their families barely survives? The very thought of the enormous obligations owed to the state speaks enough of the hopelessness of their position. Does the ministry gentlemen know how many peasants it takes to buy artificial fertilizer if they want to sow wheat on five acres of land? Believe it or not, even 100,000 dinars. From where? And we also know that there is a need to buy seed material, fuel, chemical protection products, then, costs around agricultural machinery, etc. Finally, because of some imaginary vision of entering the European Union, there is some 2100 – it opens borders and imports of agricultural products, and our peasants cannot pay with the prices of their products to cover even production costs, let alone pay for contributions. As regards this second bill relating to the write-off of the debt on the basis of the compulsory health insurance contribution, the impression is that the government has found a way to raise certain funds from the employer and insurance companies that have not yet settled their current legal obligations. It is known that many companies, both social and private, were unable to reconcile their obligations to employees because of the generally known economic situation, or were unable to pay them contributions. I don't think anything has improved in the meantime, even worsened, especially now that the economic crisis has affected the whole world. Many companies, thanks to the government, ended up in the hands of the owners who did not settle their obligations. Many companies have been shut down. There are a lot of people in front of bankruptcy, and I don't think it'll mean anything to them to change the law. It would be good if it worked, but when all the bills are empty, when the bills are in the blockade, when the companies are struggling with the interest that banks have to pay because of the loaned funds, it's unlikely that a large minus 42 billion dinars will be bridged by regular taxpayer payments for the next four years. The real question is, what have the state authorities, or tax authorities, done so far? Now we have reason to believe that certain bonds knew that such a bill would be passed and consciously failed to fulfil their legal obligation, unlike the others who had to bend in different ways, to make payments. Now they're both going from zero. Why in some ways not reward those who have zealously fulfilled their legal obligations? This is how it turns out they're being punished. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5846	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5847	Ladies and gentlemen, the MEPs from the list of ZES will vote for these two laws, which are by far specific. They are specific due to the limited duration and are specific that in a special way state intervention regulates a very sensitive area. Each of the political parties has a sincere desire to create an economic environment in our country and to make it easier for our entrepreneurs to achieve the desired economic effect for our country. It is known that, for example, since 2000, the debt, no matter what the basis, has been compromised in terms of interest. This is one big stimulant for our businessmen, in conditions where our fiscal and tax policy is reformed and when things are introduced into legal flows, anyone who wants to do business in a legitimate way, I think by giving up the state of public income has the best possible stimulant. I think it's a particularly interesting law on the rest and write-off of debt based on the contribution to compulsory health insurance because of the fact that, above all, it's about the debt of natural persons, especially farmers. In the last campaign, we went around, most of us, all of Serbia and we faced the same issue of farmers: "How can I verify the health book and what to do with the debts I owe, I really can't? None of us knew the right answer to those questions, and we all know the position of our farmers. It is far from the situation of farmers in European Union countries, there is no price stability. The factory is under clear skies, agricultural land and plantations are usually not provided. The farmer has a limited source of income. For the SPO, our farmers have always been "and the fosterer and defender of Serbia". On the other hand, we have witnessed the fact that our health institutions have greatly improved working conditions since 2000. Until a year ago, and even now many influential health institutions still don't have the basic devices needed for diagnostics, such as, scanners, magnetic resonances, X-ray machines, etc. Of course, the desire of all of us, making sure that we are socially responsible to the government, here I will replicate my friends on the left hand side of the European road, that the social responsibility of both right-wing governments and that today's EU countries, which are in the form of monarchy, are extremely socially responsible governments. I think that every farmer, who really wants to, and with a hard time, can spare money for compulsory health insurance, this legal solution will get the right chance. Of course, the period that we once had in our society, when the institutions of the system did not respect each other, when the commitments to the state were not respected, remained behind us, and that there should be awareness among all Serbian citizens in the future, regardless of what we from the SPO are not satisfied that there is an annual issue for health insurance as much as there is. I think it is a sincere intention for all MPs and all political parties to be smaller, but because of the general opportunities that exist in our country, it seems now to be inevitable. These days, when I spoke to the Shumadins, the Dragachevs, the people of western Serbia about this law, believe that these legal solutions have come across a very positive echo, so the SPO will support all the solutions that will affect the situation of both our businessmen and our citizens and our farmers on our way to modern and rich Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5848	The Messenger of the people is Sreto Peric, and after him is the messenger of the people, Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you've made a precedent today that no one has done before, there's a fellow Members of Parliament here who are long-term MPs, so that the government's representative doesn't comment on what's on the agenda. Your communication with the MPs is bad. I trust my colleague, Vujadinovic, that you are a good professor of public finances and I will not say that you belong there, but we are looking at you as a representative of the Government, and you are looking at MPs as representatives of the citizens and nothing other than that. You tried to say yesterday that the inherited liabilities and debts were well before 2000. It's possible, I can't get into it, I haven't studied it analytically, as you like to do, but you need to know that the Slave Houses are, and many other economic entities that are sold, the liquids and these people who represent PUPS here and all of us who are here. It should not be forgotten, but it should be considered one balance. You're saying the liabilities from the unpaid contributions to compulsory health insurance came from the 1990s. I am here ready to oppose my opinion – that is not true. The large enterprises that had some problems at the time because of the total environment in which the state of Serbia was located have already been privatised or are under bankruptcy, and the commitments are from a later period, it will be that everything has been, like, since 2000 and so on. When it comes to this first law that speaks of the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, you have done one dynamic and one activity here to be carried out by taxpayers and to apply by 31 July 2009, but there is no structure that is bonds on this basis. I guess there's a very small number of independent trades and other business entities, and that there's a large number of those companies that are still in the social structure of ownership and that probably you don't, I don't think directly of you, of course, making plans to buy out those companies, so that they can get together. The effect of this government to this day, it could be said, in the opinion of Serbian citizens, not those MPs who support everything that has been done, is almost zero. When you have no solutions, then you try to capture as many citizens as you can, as your colleague Vujadinovic has said here, so let's let it meet the peasants, or farmers. There are no MPs and no citizens in Serbia who do not want to be helped. Their obligations, compared to the obligations of major economic systems that will now be privatised, are negligible, because if you sometimes walk Serbia, not only Montenegro, you will see that the poorest are the most regular and the best paid. They love their country, they value it, and by fulfilling their obligations they try to express their loyalty, while others don't do it most often. You said here there would be big taxpayers, when it comes to forgiveness of interest, but we don't have an overview of who you are, or how many there are, and I personally think there's a rabbit in that bush. In Article 3. You differentiated the bill nicely: 1) if paid by 31.12.2008, interest is recognised as a total of 100%; 2) if they do so by 31.March 2009, 75%; 3) if they do so by 30.June 2009 50%; So, the difference is six months, and the difference in their obligations is 50%. If you already wanted to go out on a date, don't you think that's too much? So we can treat it with some kind of interest. She's very big. The interest-based funds are 15 billion. I join the discussion carried out by the MP, Mr Maric, that the tax administration should have been much more effective, because, once again, those who have the least, have the most regular reconciliation of their obligations. To remind you, the average openness of independent trade or crafts shops in Serbia was seven months, and now it is nine months. That's how much on average they can handle, just because of their big obligations, and then they have to shut it down. And those who buy companies, there are cases of 20, 30, 40, they watch not only how to cheat the state but also employees of these companies. That is why major problems arise later, and no one from the government is ready to help solve the problems of employees in these companies. In the light of this law, you say this is regulated by the law, which is how you thought, which creates equal rights and obligations for all entities. This law does not create equal rights and obligations. You're going to encourage some of these laws, whether citizens, whether economic operators, to think that in the next period they're not paying their dues, because this isn't the first time that the state has tried to do anything, but it's at the expense of those regular payers. The implementation of fiscal policy should be monitored. Let's say, in Germany, when assessing the violation of the criminal code provisions, if you notice that a provision is violated by more than 10%, it's a good signal for them to change the law, not to change citizens. So, the right measure was not established, and very often there were no real measures in fiscal policy in Serbia's citizens' duties. If I were to say something briefly about this law of rest and write off the debt based on the contribution to compulsory health insurance Here I would like to join the advice of my fellow SPS colleagues, this should be an ex-officio for agricultural producers for their duties. These are people who live far from the headquarters where tax administrations are located, they may have less informative communications and should, according to their official duty, write down these claims they have. Please, I ask, I need it because of the question of the citizens of Serbia – what about the obligations of the debtors who have ceased to exist, whose economic operators have ceased to exist with the date of entry into force of this law? You have provided in this bill that if commitments are regularly met by 2011 in the next period, then all their obligations, interest and contributions will be cut off on the basis of compulsory health insurance. It is provided that the economic operator is active. But if he ceases to exist with the day of entry into force of this law, what his destiny will be, because he no longer has a regular obligation. Is its obligation consisting of a total debt on this day, or on the date of entry into force of this law, that its obligation will remain only what is on the basis of health insurance or interest or will it be able to settle its obligation by 31.12.2011 and will be deemed to have ceased to exist? Of course, I have received a large number of questions from Serbian citizens, and today, who say problems arise when they meet the conditions for retirement. I have one particular case (he did, though, and the last one called) when two years ago he gained conditions for retirement, it was all over. He hasn't had a retirement solution in two years. I ask you a question – how, in what way and from what will this citizen, who has done 40 years of retirement work, live until the pension solution arrives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5850	The word is by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5851	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listening to coalition partners who make up power, I see how solid they are about this law and the write-offs of these debts. I'm asking if this isn't your fake solidarity. You know why? Because you know well from whom and how to collect those debts. If you enter the nursing homes of agricultural producers or workers or of this Serbian orphanage, how and in any way to take away what he has in his house when you know well that he has a refrigerator that is over 20 years old, TV, too, without talking about anything that he has as his own good that keeps him in the house. You know well that you can't collect it, and then you show up as benefactors – let's see how this government write off your debts and how we think about you, or what we promised you in the election campaign that we'll think about you. That's the way this government thinks. I ask, how and how will many patients presently in hospitals who have no other income to pay for that hospital day, the day they spent in the hospital? You are well aware that certain medicines can be given in the hospital, and many medicines have to buy themselves – how and in what way and who will buy them these medicines when you know well that over 60, 70% of the population of Serbia can no longer, so to speak, put together the month with the month, or can't pay back these taxes during the month to the state? That's my question. Don't be falsely solidarityd and don't represent one solidarity, fake, government. You represent a government that will, and has gone that way, to destroy Serbia's Serbia's peasant, to destroy the Serb worker. Please, don't do your fake representation here – the individuals I've been listening to all day, who come out for this pay phone and say they agree with this law. He spoke well of this little Gjorge, from the SPS, whom I support, and so did Mr. Sreta – about the problems of villages and peasants. What does he say next? There's nothing to talk about. Ogoleo... (President: It's been three minutes. Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you think was injured? I'm done, I've come to the beggar stick, and you think... (President: National MP, which member of the Rules of Procedure do you consider to have been injured? I said, "Art." 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5852	You didn't say. With a stenogram not a member of 225 or 226 but you have not set up the information. You have time within your Parliament group, MP, if you like, there are nine minutes left to share with Parliamentarian Pai Momchilov. There's no need to abuse the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Paja Momchilov, nine minutes has the SRS MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5853	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, where three more minutes were given, I don't know, Madam Chairman, but it doesn't matter. We have two laws here and a united debate, a write-off of interest on the basis of taxes and social security and another one that is quite similar, about the rest and write-off of debt based on contributions to compulsory health insurance. Mr Krasic made it perfectly clear that the position of the SRS, and he can come down to one sentence – whether we pass these laws or not, the citizens will not benefit from it. That's the point someone can accept, someone doesn't, and I'll try and prove it. Madam Minister, now she's gone, we see, she's defended the law by silence, which is best when you have nothing to say. I wanted to say that there might be one extenuating circumstance. These are laws that the previous government has sent to Parliament. Probably, since she didn't consider herself the author of it, she couldn't even defend these laws. I ask, first of all, what are these laws? These are ridiculous laws, typical touchdowns, those are patch laws, those are the laws that should put out the fire, i.e. to correct the nebuloses of previous dossing laws. There are a number of such laws, such as the Law on Criminal Procedure, which we will not have to implement until next year, the Law adopted in 2006, so it is seen that it is not acceptable. Now, about something in the area of health and something that regulates this law on the peace and write-off of debts. You see, an analysis of the effects says: ''According to the Health Insurance Act, the obligation to exercise the right of compulsory health insurance is prescribed only on the basis of a certified health book, by conducting an official branch of the Republic Health Insurance Institute based on evidence... '" etc. Look, they're telling us a fairy tale right now, and they're not verifying books at all in the Republic Bureau. They're verifying companies and companies. Now, look, what kind of parsomony, when you're already looking at explanations in your companies, your company, and you in your company, in the Assembly, you have to verify if you're constantly employed, there's a whole series of questions that are asked here in the explanation, the interpretation is completely forgotten, the question mark has been thrown out, there's no question of that interruption sign, and that doesn't matter, let's see how you're going to understand this: what measures will be taken to make the reasons for the law? It's not like there's gonna be a reason for the law, it exists, and then there's the law. That's what someone writes, and that's where the honorary defense ministers say it's okay. I'm not going to read to you what's supposed to be. What do you think when you are asked the question in reasons: Why is law-making the best way to solve problems? Making the law is the best way to solve problems for reasons of legal matter. Aferim! Who's this for? To read the second part, it's even scarier, I won't, it has nothing to do with logic, say, what measures will be taken during law enforcement to achieve what the law means? What measures? He says the Ministry of Finance – the Tax Administration is in charge of law enforcement and its uniform application on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is ridiculous. What measures? No, it's written here who will implement it, and it's in the title – what measures will be taken during law enforcement to achieve it. Then you, here, someone nodded that it was okay, if it's okay with you, I don't mind. The question is how many citizens and businesses carry out these obligations, that's what we should have heard. What is the category of citizens, to see the social structure, if we got that, we'd say we have a story of serious people. Or, more importantly, why citizens don't settle these obligations, did someone try to get there? Clearly, 42 billion are missing from the Republic Fund, and he has a budget of 143 billion, right? Who's to blame? Tax administration, Dinkic's tax administration. What's even scarier, the Republic Fund doesn't even get what the budget is obliged to transfer, has got 2% instead of 15% of the funds needed for unsecured persons, which our law provides for again. It's a violation of the law again. You know what a difficult situation farmers are in – and of course no one can object to helping them eventually, well, by laws like this, by patches, by ridiculous laws. We heard the minister, that in the budget rebalancing, they had subsidies to farmers who had withdrawn this deficit that we had, in part, and then we saw her story that it was probably not going to be in the future, and you know that we signed the Association Agreement and that trade agreements would start to apply that and how to further put our farmers in a difficult position. When it comes to independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen, small businesses, what's the situation? Aroundly, they are treated by the state authorities as odors. Here's why. Adjective tax, they have and are determined from municipality to municipality in different sizes. What does that look like? He says your salary is, say, 40,000 -- well, now you're still gonna pay for what you earn so much, so if you don't make it happen, then next year it's never gonna be less or lower, but you're always gonna get more money to pay, and you're gonna have to pay for it. And then there's interest on interest, if you don't pay, then they come up with a tax to raise the company, 38,000, and they say, you won't pay for last year, and in 15 days, a warrant comes back to pay 38,000. Well, then, when they bring in the fiscal registers, they catch that spy and they say it's mandatory to buy 150 euros and they say we'll pay you back, they never pay back, 300,000 are paid, it costs real 15 euros, and 45 million Dinkic's got a nice grab from these people. It's about how the inspections behave. These little banks, however they want, and they deal with the big ones, they go as agreed. It also turns out that large restaurants pay the same taxes as those that have the lowest opportunities to pay, craftsmen with shops. And you know what the mechanism is. What is also important to say, the people are, unfortunately, increasingly sicker in this country, the mortality rate in the last five years is in constant growth, the Health Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Serbia in 2006, that is about those cemeterys, again one story, we in the SRS think (and we no longer have enough time) that poor health policy is the cause and poor health conditions of citizens and the inability to perform their obligations. Change the business conditions of these citizens, allow these farmers to do normal business and work, and then you will have solutions, and no such legal solutions. Primary health care has been neglected, the private sector is unintegrated, the funding system does not provide that people can pay, and it is now clearly seen. This state of Serbia must define the basic package of services and must most likely consider the SRS proposal to move on to a system of national funding, where each citizen must be provided with this basic package of institutions, and then move on. And today, these categories, which are not listed and listed in tax, and endangered categories, refugees and Roma, also have major problems – do not have a certified health book and cannot achieve their health rights, and their health is at risk. Of course, I am ending, there will be a battle in the Ministry of the Next Budget, we must support the Ministry of Health which must not be allowed to go to lower rates of separation from gross national income and must not go to a lower rate of 12% of personal income, just to be Europe, because investing in health is investing in sustainable development. And you who go to Europe, I will let this minister read what the EU says about all this. Thank you. That's what I had to say. Of course, senseless laws and none of them will get any of that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5854	National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word under Article 100(1). Then, the folk emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5855	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I use a rare opportunity and ask Mr. Secretary to say, why is ill-organized healthcare in Pancheva, because Panchevo deserves to be given more attention than it seems so far and what now seems? The Panchets are asking, Mr. Minister, for an explanation. I have been contacted by a citizen of Dr. Vladimir Dejanovic-Dandi from Panchev, who, with a large number of citizens, has been in contact with me, and a large number of citizens have been addressing me directly for years, but, behold, you see nothing, so to speak, is seriously taking place. You know the situation in Pancheva, that Pancheva is dangerous to all possible poisons, I can even them with battle poisons. The war poisons have a time limit, but the poisons that poison the Pancians have no limit, as neither the government nor the industry's competent take appropriate measures to protect the health of the Pancev citizens. I'm asking for an explanation and a notice from you, Mr. Minister, why the Pančevs, and the most severe patients, have to go from Pancheva to Novi Sad to check and radiation checks, and it's about the most severe patients with cancer, who have about 3,000. They go under abnormal conditions, flies at 35-40 degrees, and winters at a minus 20-30 degrees. They're forced to travel, and it's done, therefore, to the most severe of the sick. In Panchevo, about 3,000 children were suffering from pulmonary disease. In Panchev, about 10,000 people were affected by diabetes. The internal ward of the hospital is in catastrophic condition. I can't compare it to other institutions that are far away, far from the hospital in Pancheva. Why are funds not allocated from the budget, when Pančevačka's economy completes the budget of the Republic of Serbia around 25%? Only Petrochemy exported around 280m euros in its products last year. Why doesn't the government leave something for the citizens of Panchev? Let them organize, let them protect their health, to arrange infrastructure and provide conditions for a normal life. To go to Pancheva hospital, to visit her, you will find military beds from 1914, an iron military bedpost before the war... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I think it's a very difficult situation in Panchev. There's a certain settlement. There's no squirm. I apologize, Madam Chairman, I will conclude, given the seriousness of the topic, I am using an exceptional opportunity to ask the question of Minister Milosavljevic, I believe that he will understand and understand Pančevci, that something is being done in this direction: 1) Why has the former health director from Pančev, Mrs Barašević, been transferred from Starčev, over Pančev, to Kovin, 38 kilometers, and back, and that he is the new director from Zemun, who is going to drive to Pancheva every morning and return him back to Zemun? I thank you and expect Mr. Minister to understand the Pančevs seeking protection, and I believe the minister is a responsible man. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5856	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100, Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5857	Article 225 and Article 226. If I am a blonde and I happen to know that I do not know what it is or do not know the answers to some of the questions that are obvious, the citizens of Serbia are obviously not, and this is an opportunity to forward to you the information that the citizens have sent to us. So the question is addressed to the prime minister, the finance minister, the minister of the economy, and especially to Mladjan Dinkic, as regards, of course, the famous Fiat contract, which was discussed here and there is no answer. We from New Serbia advocate that the most important elements of this contract must be published on the government's website because it is one of the most risky contracts this government could conclude with a strategic partner. New Serbia's economic team has established very strange facts. If you carefully look at that contract and compare it to what we hear from individual ministers, you can't help but wonder if it's the same contracts. Ministers argue the value of the contract is close to 950m euros with an initial investment of 700m euros. A production plan of 200,000 vehicles annually, exports from one billion euros to 2011 and 2,400 new jobs is being discussed. The contract states only the obligation of a new company to employ 2,433 workers by 2012, but pay attention, without obligation for these workers to be recruited from the current 3,800 employees, as well as that the new company invests more than 700m euros in investments, but not "Fijat" but a joint venture. The number of 200,000 cars per year is not mentioned anywhere, as no mention of investment dynamics is made, the bank guarantee does not appear in trace. The most scandalous thing about it is that the government signed a contract with the "Fiat" and that, in doing so, the Italian producer failed to submit either an investment plan, or a guarantee, or a mortgage. Of the investments, only Serbia's 250m-euro commitments and 25m euros were clearly defined for redundancies of surplus employees, as seen in the budget's rebalance, which would say that the "Fiat" did not take over the implementation of the social programme. The cost, of course, took over Serbia, but failed to include the cost in its share in the newly founded enterprise. For the past eight years alone, the Serbian government has invested more than 500m euros in Zastava, only in severance and employee subsidies, which has also not been taken into account when assessing the value of the job. It said that Fijat will only invest its 200m euros when all the preconditions for this are met, and there are 12 such preconditions, with 10 relating to Serbia's obligations and only two to the Fiata obligations. Another failure by the self-proclaimed socially responsible government refers to a collective contract of employees where not a single word mentions the salary level of employees, which means that with the current 300 euros it can also fall. Nowhere in Europe has any investors received an incentive of more than 25% of the total value of the investment, and here Serbia gives 273m euros, free use of 60 hectares of the country and obtaining duty-free status. In order to understand what this is really about, I will only list an example of the "Folksvagen" in Slovakia, which in 16 years of business and 2 billion euros in investment received tax relief of 400m euros. Last year, Folksvagen made six and a half billion euros in Slovakia, with 90% of its production being for export under contract with the Slovak government, while our government did not anticipate that clause either. Can an equal be called a relationship in which Serbia for at least a third of the investments, with not counting previous investments, has only two of the seven members of the Management Board? This reminds me of that joke about the elephant and the mouse that goes across the bridge and the mouse says, "But let's beat it." What direct benefit can Serbia expect from such a contract? (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. Where's our benefit, given that we've released almost all of the state's allocations on all of this? The question that logically arises is – what about companies whose privatisation is yet to come? Are we prepared for these incentives, to give them when it comes to JAT, the First Five-year-old, the "Electron Nis Industry", or is this an exclusive that applies only to enterprises that were part of the pre-election programme of the ruling coalition?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5858	People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5859	It's about Article 225. Dear People's MPs and the chairman, I use a rare opportunity to ask Mr. Secretary only two questions. We've already asked the first question, and we haven't received the answer. That's a chronic question. When are we going to be able to see projects in real light on the Ministry of Health site, and not just like this? This was taken off the Ministry of Health site today. This is what the current projects and the former look like. We really worry when we see – technical assistance in the reorganisation, building capacity of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and three million euros. What's he going on about? Who's spending it and why? So they're invisible, all of these projects are nontransparent. Will the day come in the country of Serbia so that we can see how this money that goes well from the budget, goes out of credit, and unfortunately more from donations, looks, and doesn't work? Why am I asking that? Of course, we often talk, others talk about us, corruption and health care, because projects are thought to be one of the sources, that there may be strangers spending together money on taxpayers and when donations from abroad, and now they are spending money on citizens of Serbia, who pay off these loans, and budgets are being paid. There is one more thing that is an acute, new question, on the Committee there were words about how it is possible for us to pay “Hemofarm” seven times more expensive medicines than Montenegro pays. That's what the media has been bombing us for days. This morning, here, for the tenth time, I tried to avoid making such a statement, and I said that I had no data, that I don't know, I can't say that it's true or not, I said that they were talking to the competent ministry. If they came to you, I don't know, it'd be good. Here, for this pay phone, you've already talked about it, you find a way to go to Hemopharma, after all, you've had good business co-operation. Well, I'd only like to refer these two questions to Mr. Secretary. What about the prices of those drugs, is that true? Over the course of two days, this question has been repeated more times than other MPs, the media is asking us that question, so, come on, answer that. Answer me, will you finally open this, let's see the perpetrators, see how much money they've got, how much they've spent, and how much evaluation. We know about the "transfusion," how infamously your project went, it's just reduced giving. Not to mention other HIV infected patients, it's nothing new. In this year, you can see that infectious diseases jumped from 2005 to 2006, and of course, from 1,200 to 2,600 in 2006. So, there's a lot of problems... And, Mr. Minister, why am I saying that this is a rare opportunity, here, we had two committees, we once discussed health funding and on the other we discussed a strategy... (President: Time, you speak for three minutes 30 seconds.) I'm finishing up, fighting chronic and non-infectious diseases, and we haven't had the honor of seeing him. And we loved hearing him too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5860	The minister has several attempts to get the word but the MPs appear wanting to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and therefore waits as Minister Diana Dragutinovic, at the beginning of the debate, for the MPs to get the word first. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll talk about Art. 225 and 226. I ask the minister a question – I'm interested, is there even a record of the number of suicides in Serbia? I wonder if there is any information on what the reason is - the mental or social state of Serbian citizens? Also, does he have any information on the number of murders? In particular, the number of murders in families has increased. Is it a social, mental or health situation in families? Why did I bring that information out? I have to tell you, on Friday, I had a case where a woman, otherwise a difficult patient, in Capco, later I spoke to her honestly, and it was a good thing I came back from the Assembly late Friday night, wanted to commit suicide, jump off the Sava Bridge. Later in the conversation with her, I gave her a name and a name, she's operated on cancer, 42 years old, she's aware that she's near the end, for a month or two days, but no one has come to her aid, no state, no social structure, to solve this difficult material condition. She's no longer in a position to attract, to buy her medication and pay her taxes, because she's out of a job. She's alone, she can't support herself. Understand once again the number of citizens in Serbia today are unable to carry out all these obligations to themselves, i.e. very easily sometimes, in the worst case scenario, resort to the execution of this most difficult one, which is unfortunately suicide or murder in families. In the end, I must say that the analysis established the presence of tuberculosis in the Sword, in a rich Sword, so now imagine yourself well and deeply for what it is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5862	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if anyone who has not yet used his right under Article 93 wants the word. Rules of Procedure? The word is from Mr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5863	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with something in which we are fully agreed. Investment in health is investing in sustainable economic development. It is the responsibility of each of you who represent the citizens of Serbia here and each of us who are elected here by your votes to be the executive power. I hope that this will be the main motto of parliamentary work and way of thinking all the time, whenever it comes to the health of Serbian citizens, and I believe, no matter what anyone says from this pay phone, that everyone is in the interest of preserving and improving the health of Serbian citizens and that everyone keeps in mind that the principles of our health insurance are obligation, solidarity and mutuality. When we talk about a concrete law, let me say that the adjustment in the area of contributions to compulsory health insurance that has the principle of obligation, solidarity and mutuality, that it is a matter that must always be the subject of legal regulation and, among other things, we are talking about it today because it has to be legal matter, such as many things that we inherited as difficult problems that sometimes seem insurmountable. A huge problem of the year in which the failure to pay for a health contribution has created obstacles that seem insurmountable. This is the least bad way to solve this problem. Restoring these debts is a condition for someone to realize that regularity and discipline of payment of health contributions is a prerequisite for having a sustainable health system at all, and we barely created it. We owed each other, which is inside, which is more than 100m euros outside, in our little poor country, where health and health care is more isolated than Albania, from the Atlantic to the Caucasus, and that's what each of us should always have in mind. After that brief introduction, I wouldn't want to compromise with different opinions because I respect the right to differ. Sometimes I also understand the reasons why such an opinion is highlighted and when it is and when it is not the time and when there is and when there are no arguments. I will try to answer specifically, as I always try to do in my life, to your questions. It would be best if you put them in writing as MPs. There are no questions to which the Ministry of Health has not answered quickly, efficiently, clearly and loudly, whenever it has been set up. So if anyone's interested in something more detailed, which they can't find out in any other way, and I think there's a lot of ways, then they can ask in writing, they'll be answered in writing. Workers who lost their jobs were mentioned, so they don't have health insurance, and that's why they can't be treated. In Serbia under Article 22. The Health Insurance Act, which does not have a job, which does not have its own income, is health insurance by paying the Republic of Serbia's budget for it. Therefore, there is no person who has lost a job who cannot exercise his right to health insurance in this way as I have mentioned. There was a difficult situation mentioned, a life-threatening condition, and they can't be treated. By the law of this country that you have had the honor of adopting, some of you in a mandate that has passed a system law in the field of health care, every man from wherever he comes from, whoever has an urgent medical reason, in any Serbian health institution is taken care of. The bill for payment is made to the Ministry of Health and is paid by the budget, and for whoever came from Zanzibar, from any country on this planet, and has an urgent reason, while in Serbia, to be treated. Thus, it is incorrect that in an emergency condition someone may not get a favor because he did not regulate his obligations in the area of health insurance. Whoever does not have any reception, he pays nothing in the field of health care, so whoever does not receive it, it is a great lie from this pay phone to say otherwise, and I fear that such a claim has been made occasionally. Citizens who have received below the social minimum, which is known precisely as defined by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, have been released from paying any participation. It was about the refugees, the temporarily displaced faces, the Roma. They are the most sensitive groups in this society and such protection, special, they have, which is guaranteed by law and which is being implemented. There was talk of inability to buy medicine. There were debaters here who had little forgotten that from the years that the list was about 400 medicines, and today there are 1,500 of them. There's not a single disease for which there's no cure on the A list that doesn't pay for this category. Therefore, it is not true that someone cannot be treated for not being able to buy the cure. He doesn't have to buy a cure at all. For essential groups of medicines, for every disease in Serbia there are enough drugs on the list A. Different prices were discussed and Montenegro was mentioned. I have to tell you, in 2004, a drug and medical law was passed in this assembly. This decision on medicines is guaranteed and determined in the way it should be, which means that it is entrusted to the profession, not politics. And from that moment on, nothing is registered in some cabinet, but at the Medicines Agency, which is trying to make it better and better year after year and as much as it looks like its twins in the European Union. This is because the state controls the drug market, because for 15 years it has been completely closed, with an unreasonablely low price policy and for many objective reasons a big problem has been put – how to control the market and the drugs are enough? Then the law guarantees a mechanism, an indomitial analysis to determine the medium price of medicine on the Serbian market. They were selected after careful analysis of the country which, Croatia, Slovenia and Italy, their average price is analysed over the year between the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Health, if the drug is original it can be up to 95% of the price and if the drug is generic up to 80%, and at this point in the Serbian market all medicines are cheaper than Croatia, Slovenia for almost 50%. What happens if someone who is a medicine producer in Serbia goes to another country's market and achieves a lower price than it is here, the same thing that happens to a producer from Slovenia and Croatia who comes to Serbia and achieves a lower price. It's probably called dumping in the economy to get into the market, but I have no reason to explain at all why on the market that's ten times smaller, in a country that doesn't have domestic production, that way, one or that producer achieves one or the same price. It is important to me that the price on the market, along with the Ministry of Trade, is set as reasonable, given that thousands of workers work in Serbia's pharmaceutical industry and that there are no shortages all these years. That disparities are slowly corrected all the time, without negatively affecting inflation, that, after reaching that market price in the Direct Negotiation Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Institute is getting an even lower price for a positive list on Serbia's market with producers. Therefore, such a price in Podgorica is not a real price. The price of Montenegro is not for indomitial analysis and for comparison, you will understand I already explained why, and I have no intention of explaining why a manufacturer did it anyway. As for the list of medications, I already mentioned that there were 1,500 of them, and there were 400 of them. It's called Panchevo. The Pančeva hospital is one of the 20 hospitals in Serbia that was listed by those health institutions that require urgent intervention. This, 'emergently' means that in 2002 and 2003, the situation was recorded in health institutions, in hospitals with dozens, over 60 special and general, and from zero to a hundred on that scale they were all below 50. Except, for example, a pyrotic that had 80 coefficients at that time, 20 of which a quarter in Vojvodina, Subotica, Sombor, Pancheva, Kikinda, followed by Zrenjanin, along with Valjev, King and Vranje. We tried always to make it from north to south, from east to west, a national project, because it's a loan from the European Investment Bank of 50 million, and each of those hospitals gets something that's urgent for it, so is the Panchean. We begin with that it is a sign that we have never forgotten our own responsibility for the whole country in the Ministry of Health and the Government of Serbia. However, you will allow decentralisation to be a natural process in Serbia, the province's authority, above all, is responsible for healthcare institutions at this level in Vojvodina. If we talk today about whether conditions are like this or not, I really have a very high responsibility to take care of the conditions at every point in Serbia and I try to make it within the limits of legal responsibility. But I'm also trying to respect the laws that tell me that the founding right is over the community health home and the municipal congregation. And if citizens in a municipal assembly choose the committees of a political party in the majority, then it is an expression of the political will of citizens and then the municipal assembly will choose the majority in the board of directors and influence the management of the institution, but the municipal assembly will also take great responsibility for the preservation and investment. Whenever it was possible from a national level to invest everywhere it was done. Today, I am sorry, there is no legal way for the Republic of Serbia's budget, for example, to allocate money to invest in a hospital in Pancheva. It must be done by the province's budget of the Vojvodina. The Republic budget must be invested in that gap that lacks undeveloped areas. When we talk about the fact that Pančevac, who lives 17km from Belgrade, is easier to come to Belgrade when he needs, for example, air therapy than to go to Kamenica, then we have to remember one fact that air therapy was a dead end. It did not exist, worked on 10% of its capacity in 2002 and 2003 and then bought equipment for Kamenica, Belgrade, Kladovo, Kragujevac and Nis. It's been analyzed for drug use. You should know that in the structure of consumption, see when there is a financial plan of the Republic Insurance Office before you, that drug consumption of these 15-16% is comparable to all other much richer European countries by percentage of consumption. It's just that our cake is much smaller. So we were in a situation not to politically cut, but to call the profession. I called the profession and said – let's spend what we have in the best possible way, to benefit citizens in all parts of Serbia. And then they said -- regionalization of expensive therapy is necessary. The Centre in Kamenica is enough to cover the needs of all the citizens of Vojvodina. It's not good for both resources and people to spill away and burden other centres, but it's a good job schedule. And then, of course, whenever you have a county line or a liability limit, there's a problem. However, normal living people and responsible people sit down and solve the problem as possible. So once I talked about it from this pay phone. I don't want to use any demagogues and make a false promise here - yes, everyone can. No, I don't. There must be rules and order. Fortunately, you don't travel 500 km. Fortunately, there is also in Kamenica, there is also in Belgrade, there is also in Kladovo, there is also in Nis, there is also in Kragujevac. The question that is now coming to the agenda and because, let me say, we are entering the second stage of the development of the health system in Serbia, which means that as much as possible there are stories about sewage, plumbing, bricks, creps, construction and machines, and the more stories about quality, about investing in health as investment in economic sustainable development, about licences, about accreditation of institutions. And I'm sure somewhere in that space between lies a solution to this question. Among the province authorities, republican, insurance branches, and those MPs from which political parties have come play a major role in helping the population of Panchev, along with health workers, to reach the best solution. Nor is such a solution promised, for it is impossible, nor is it deceived that there are no solutions. No one's lost their therapy. It was a question of when you could see the projects? Always and at all times, only anyone who doesn't want to see them will never see them. I can't really make people watch what they need to see. The parliamentary question in writing, the ministry's reply, is that we file reports in every way possible. I think the best way to find the budget is to look, for example, in the 2009 budget, when it comes to the agenda, and to remind myself that the Ministry of Health has been, for example, three years already, practically, programming. This means that together with five other ministries last year, and now rich with more, the budget is increasingly programable, which in the future should be for all ministries and always. I think the legal solution we're talking about today is the least evil in the situation that's inherited. The health minister who is now speaking to you would be the luckiest minister in the world if he could talk about a continuity in which there is a discipline of payment of contributions, in which it is known that over a bookbook is not beating stamps on a bookbook, but a guarantee that there is a sustainable system of financing health care in Serbia. We need to know that we're talking about a country where, six years ago, five thousand videos were made on a magnet one year ago, and this year, 37,000, we're talking about waiting lists, but they're much less. It is not bad to compare a little with Germany, and with the Netherlands, and with Croatia and Slovenia, while comparing finance, you will really be fair to that data and then you will find a reason why you should vote for this law, no matter what political you think. Why? Because he solves a difficult problem -- a multi-year debt build-up. If someone wants to start paying for insurance from today, he can't do it, but everything he pays for, paying is the oldest debt under the Accounting Act and he'll never be able to pay for health insurance, which for the future of this system is no good at all. I therefore believe that there are many more arguments on the side of such a solution, which is pragmatic, practical, good, because the defaulting of debts gives the opportunity to show businesses and everyone else in three years, how disciplined they will be in payments. This solution mostly goes to farmers, actually, because it releases them from one accumulated debt per minimum quota, if they truly realize that civil liability is necessary. It's the only thing that can be the basis for commitment, solidarity and mutuality. Once again, I thank one of the predecessors, with whom, of course, I do not agree in much, but in that sentence, investment in health is investing in state and economic development, where he was, in fact, quoting me, I am completely in agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-29-0.u5864	I conclude a joint principled search on the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and the draft law on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. We're finishing work for today. We'll continue the session tomorrow at ten o'clock.
