ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7379	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at least one third of the MPs are present in the hall, which is a business obligation for the session to begin. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Munir Poturak and Bajram Šehovic. I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has called for the presence of Interior Ministry Secretary Milorad Todorovic with the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Road Corrections (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government, as well as reports from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a joint principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament's Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward, Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. So far, we have no information that, instead of the president, any parliamentary group will represent an authorised representative, to which parliamentary groups have the right. National MP Donka Banovic is the mandated representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group. Does the first vice president, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, today is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The draft law amending only two members of the applicable Law on Travel Documents. As you know, the Law on travel documents began to apply on April 9th of this year. Otherwise, he was brought here a few years ago in this people's congregation. Article 53 of this Act found that the passport, diplomatic passport and official passport, issued before that day, shall be valid until the deadline set out in that amendment and the longest until 31 December of this year. Due to technical inability, and after 9 April 2008, it continued to issue old passports, according to the passport, diplomatic passport and official passport. After the technical possibilities were met, on July 7th of this year, in all district police administrations at the Ministry of the Interior, a request for the issue of biometric passports prescribed by this law was started, but requirements for the issue of old passports were continued. As of 1 November this year, in the Republic of Serbia, in the area police administrations, only applications for the issue of biometric passports are received, while only then, on 3 November, abroad, the reception of these requirements has begun, and only at diplomatic and consular offices in Paris and Dusseldorf. It is interesting that only 142 applications for the issue of new passports in these two diplomatic and consular representations have been accepted since 1 November. As a result, it is obvious that, unless the period of validity of the old passports is extended, in the most unfavourable position, citizens living abroad would be found, and of course, that provision would affect the citizens who live here, with us, who have not arrived to take new passports. We note that 114.815 requests have been accepted in the Ministry of the Interior so far and 80,747 biometric passports have been issued. The new documents are issued much faster today than is foreseen by the law, from one to ten days in Belgrade's territory, and in the interior, due to the need for courier delivery, they are issued on average in 15 days. The issue of passports on an old form, as I said, expired on November 1st, so more than 12,000 new requirements are now being received for new passports weekly. Also, I would like to inform you that from 14 April to 17 November of this year, 257.042 applications for the issue of new ID cards were received throughout Serbia, 184 of which. 864 requests for ID cards with a chip and 72,178 requests for ID cards without chips. I would like to inform you that, because at the same time it was possible to issue both old and new passports, because of the very short period of passport change and because of the crowds that appeared before the holidays, in the summer, so far, in the course of this year, 342,000 passports were issued on the old form, so three times more than new passports. So we decided to stop issuing old passports from November 1st. At the time of the Law on Travel Documents, the deadline for the replacement of passports was considered to be December 31st this year. Obviously, that deadline cannot be long enough to replace all the old passports. I would also remind and invite all citizens of Serbia, as the proposal for this law is that the old passports are valid by the end of next year, to immediately start replacing the old passports and issuing new passports, to prevent major crowds in police administrations from occurring in the second half of next year. Of course, I'd just like to remind you once again that this is one of the very important issues of the so-called. The road map to the EU's approach, because that road, which I was talking about last time, has two tracks. It is one approach to EU membership, which can also depend on certain political reasons, and the second track is the path to visa liberalisation, which, above all, will depend on how much we are prepared to pass the law in the Assembly and apply it, of course, and how much we will manage to protect and control the state borders, to prevent illegal migration, all forms of organised crime and how much we will manage to have documents that will be valid and that will prevent any possible abuse. The issue of new passports is a very important data and a very important fact in assessing Serbia's EU path. Of course, the change of this law is also technically but also an issue that benefits the citizens of Serbia. That's why I'm saying, since the bill on travel documents has practically been adopted by the Assembly in the previous session, it's obvious it's been impossible for all passports to be replaced over the past few months. To prevent citizens of Serbia from having problems, so that they are not only subject to passports by the end of this year, we suggest that the old passports are valid by the end of next year, and that, as quickly as possible, start issuing and submitting requests for new documents to avoid crowds. I would also like to remind myself that the liberalisation of the visa regime, whenever it comes, will only apply to holders of new passports, not old passports. Therefore, as it is a law that is of interest to all Serbian citizens, I call on all political parties to vote in favour of these amendments and the addition of the Law on travel documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7381	Do the officials of the committees want the word, the Defence and Security Committee, MP Dragan Todorovic? (No) Does the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7382	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the authorised representative is a little cold, so I apologize for the strange color of the vote. We have before us a bill that is very short and clear. It's just about changing a member. The amendment of a member of the applicable travel documents law, which came into force in October 2007, is therefore envisaged, but has started to apply in April 2008. According to the current law, travel documents are valid until 31 December 2008, so by the end of this year, passports, diplomatic passports and official passports would cease to be valid until the end of 2008. The proposed amendment to the Law is amended in Article 53, and this year, 2008 is replaced by the number 2009. So it is proposed to issue passports, old passports, as they are called in the people, and all passports, and they are ordinary, and diplomatic, and official, practically, are valid until the end of 2009. In the explanation that we have received with the Proposal for this Law on Amendments and Supplements, and we have heard from Minister Dacic, it is said that there are objective reasons and difficulties in making new passports, and therefore it is necessary to postpone this period for a year and two months. According to the road map to liberalise the visa regime between EU and Serbian countries, the first group of issues concerns, precisely, the security of documents, i.e. passport security and ID cards. In this respect, Serbia is obliged to issue biometric passports that are in line with the standards of the European Commission and the International Civil Aviation Organisation, which include biometric data, both for photography and for fingerprints. The state also has an obligation to strengthen the security of these documents and their release, i.e. the state is obliged to regularly inform Interpol of when a passport is stolen, or when a passport is lost. We have heard here that technical conditions are not met, that there are difficulties, and I think that, as citizens, we can respect this as a reason, but we cannot respect the fact that in the last year, Serbian citizens are constantly promising that Serbia will very soon be placed on the white Schengen list and that everyone will be able to travel without a visa. What was not sincere and true, is that no one took into account the current law, the current law, in Article 26(3), stipulates that travel documents are made and printed by the National Bank of Serbia, and this is the Office for making bills and coins. Regardless of how it was known that Serbia could not meet this very important condition in the campaign, promises are heard today that Serbia will meet the requirement very quickly and be put on the white Schengen list. Judging by the extension of the passport replacement deadline, but also according to statements by government members, Serbia will not be granted any more visas. I remind you of the many promises that were heard in the campaign, and until today they are heard. The first was the deadline for Serbia to be placed on the white Schengen list by the end of 2008. Then it was due by the end of 2009, and now we hear that Serbia will certainly not be put on the white Schengen list by 2010. Also, all MPs are likely to remember very well that these months there have been words that Parliament, therefore, is all MPs, and I assume that there were the most accused MPs of the opposition, the one blocking everyone, who is blocking Serbia's path to Europe. One statement was fragrant, so I'll quote it. Djelic, meanwhile, said that now they are starting, who, they, we, are blocking key freedom, freedom of movement and visa waiver for our citizens. "Further Parliament's blockade will endanger the acquisition of white Schengen." In time, Minister Djelic, the vice-president in charge of European affairs, accused us of blocking basic human rights, the right to move. Vice-President Djelic was in the Assembly the other day, we held the Committee on European Integration, and told Serbian citizens there is no guarantee that Serbia will be placed on the white Schengen list by the end of 2010. When the greatest optimist of all governments of all time says there is no guarantee that even by 2010, Serbian citizens will be able to travel to European Union countries without a visa, i.e. countries that are in the Schengen area, then there is a big problem. I want to remind the citizens, and all of us, that we have adopted a set of six laws that were important for visa liberalisation. Parliament has fulfilled that first obligation. Of course, we still have a number of laws from the European Partnership to be passed. I also remind you that we have adopted the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Transitional Trade Agreement. I say - adopted, because I believe that I am part of this Parliament, regardless of what my party was against confirming, or ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I remind you that these two agreements remained a dead letter on paper, that the European Council, i.e. the Commission, did not want to unblock the Transition Trade Agreement, which would allow Serbia's economy to gradually prepare for European integration, i.e. the agreement did not remain a dead letter on paper for our partners in the EU, because the agreement allowed, practically, the beginning of the installation and deployment of the Eulex mission. With the blessing of the government in Serbia, with the blessing of the president of the state, with the blessing of the Prime Minister and members of the government, at this moment, the Eulex mission is being moved around Serbia, and the goal of Eulex is nothing more than building an independent state of Kosovo, as they have told us many times. That's what Fried said yesterday at a press conference he held in Pristina. I have a need to remind you of another deception by the Serbian government, and that is, when it comes to the European Commission's annual report on Serbia's progress in the European integration process. Namely, the report was published on November 5th. This is perhaps the most important report we get every year, where the European Commission analyses each segment and how much Serbia has progressed in a particular area – from the analysis of the government itself, administrative capacity, justice, etc. Overall reforms are being evaluated and as far as Serbia has arrived on its way to the European Union, joining. Then again, the Deputy Prime Minister, this time from Brussels, managed to offend this home by telling us from Brussels that Serbia's National Assembly is a black spot on Serbia's path to the European Union. It is again part of the practice that the government and members of the government for all their failures are trying to accuse Parliament, or the opposition in Parliament, which is, in the extreme line, both ridiculous and bold. One Serbian government member from Brussels cannot order the institution of Serbia, it is the National Assembly, that it is a black spot. When it comes to the report itself, I am the vice-president of the Committee on European Integration. I can tell you that until today, the members of the Committee on European Integration have not received a translation of this very important document. We received, however, a summary for the meeting of the Committee held on 13 November, which we later learned was made up by the Association Office. I can say freely, and another opposition MP was at the Committee's session, that this summary was, in fact, a falsification of the report. It may not have been the intention, but definitely, the people working on the team of ministers, or Vice President Djelic, filtered the report through their understandings. In this report, or summary, it is again Parliament that does nothing, which is very bad, and the government, with three or four estimates, has been assessed very positively in the summary. When you read such a summary, it intrigues you a little bit, so you go to the European Commission website, and you take over the document that was written in English. All members of the European Integration Committee know English, so when we read the original document, it was clear to us. It was again an attempt at deception. I was checking yesterday, and I saw that there's a translation of the report on the Association Office's website at last, so I'm asking you to read the report, and if you're interested, you can also see the summary. So now I'm just talking about visa liberalisation and when Serbia will be put on the white Schengen list and when Serbian citizens will be able to travel without visas to Schengen countries. When it comes to that, there are always delusions. So they promise representatives of government to the citizens that they will be in 2008, 2009. Now we see there's no 2010 either. Stop accusing others of your failures. Tell the citizens where the problems are, that you are the problem, that you are not doing well, that you are jeopardising Serbia's European path. So, from that slogan from the "I Kosovo, and Europe" campaign, it will remain -- neither Kosovo nor Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7383	The word comes from MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is rarely an opportunity that any bill can best show all the misery and misery of this country and the character of those who have ruled this country for eight years. Changes and additions to this law, which does not have a total of 50-60 letters, with all points and commas, about a simple thing, but when you look at the essence, you get into a situation to worry deeply about the fate of this state and the citizens of Serbia. Let's get back to the past, it wasn't that long ago, let's see how it all started. It will best reflect everything that has happened to Serbian citizens. It started on April 3, 2008. It wasn't by any chance that it started right then. You remember there was a pre-election campaign at the time, that parliamentary elections were scheduled for May 2008. That was enough reason for you to go, in every way possible, into another new scam of Serbian citizens. The new fraud has been seen in the fact and in your claim that Serbia, as a country seeking integration with Europe, will most likely, according to then Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, by the end of 2008, arrive on the white Schengen list. You remember then that Bozidar Djelic pompously announced the first 204 passports to be given to the most visible citizens of Serbia. Then the jury was organised, 2,100 proposals for new passports were due to be made by the most prominent citizens of Serbia, and they split: they will be the best students, and the best athletes. Novak Djokovic is scheduled for a passport with 205. The jury then included the most famous people from Serbia, even from the diaspora, and said that the session will be attended by Zdravko Colic on the phone by telephone, as well as a successful businessman from Germany, Dejan Ilic. It was all intended only to deceive Serbian citizens, because they were elections, pre-election campaigns and famous passwords: "Let's live better", "Let's get to Europe" and "We're coming to Europe with new passports as well". This is what Mr Djelic says: "We are going to Europe with Serbian passports, with Cyrillic, our identity, sovereignty and our Kosovo". Djelic said that and stayed alive. They are more honest matchmakers that spin those matches and those with three cards on the street than this Deputy Prime Minister and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At least they have some chance of getting something, and when Bozidar Djelic promises something, he has a chance to further increase his capital, because at every job he takes a commission. You now have this, it is said: "In the House of the National Assembly, May 3, 204 new passports were awarded. They were assigned by Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who said the new passport was entered into the European future." Just so a man wonders how long this DOS scam and those who represent you will last, especially when it comes to Bozidar Djelic? I'm sure there's no one who doesn't remember in 2001, when Bozidar Djelic first came to Serbia, perhaps not for the first time, but then he became famous to the public of Serbia, with a heartwarming story of washing the halls, stairs, etc., earning his studies, living with his aunt, until we discovered that in fact, Bozidar Djelic was a benevolent man, with 11m euros in shares only in one bank, and who knows how many in other banks and elsewhere. The only problem is we're not getting any information as to how Mr Djelic came up with this great wealth. But don't lie down, this job that you've announced so pompously, it immediately showed, at the very beginning, that it will be on that people's side: "The mountains were shaking, Bozidar Djelic was born" and that there will be big problems. Mr. Minister, let me remind you, according to information relating to the equipment for the new passport, 110m euros have been spent, and problems relating to the passport are emerging at the very beginning. You know, we're not an ordinary country, we want to get into Europe, and it's much better than some European members, and it's old, say, they have passports, French people with four levels of protection, and we have seven. The problem is, looks like we couldn't secure any of the only ones. The problem has arisen, and Bozidar Djelic accuses Governor Jelasic of it. Remember when Bozidar Djelic said he was responsible for the delay of the new Serbian biometric passports, Governor Radovan Jelasic. That's all I'm saying in the articles and in the papers, it's no improvisation, all the things you said about each other. He recognises that Jelasic, as governor, is responsible for making chips and for late making passports and demands that the head of the Serbian monetary institution guarantee the delivery of quality forms, and that the MUP says when citizens will receive new travel documents. The MUP unofficially found out on April 9th that new biometric passports should be issued with marks of Serbian statehood and entered into force under the law delaying the launch of passport issuance. Then comes the answer to Djelic's accusations that Radovan Jelasic is responsible for the passport's delay. Be careful, the Deputy Prime Minister accuses his coalition partner from G17 that their governor is responsible for the delay in issuing new passports. But the director of Ljubisa Vuletic's banknote-making office, who says, "Djelic hid the information". Translated into plain language, Bozidar Djelic lies. He says, "Government Vice-President Bozidar Djelic has banned the management of the Bureau for making bills to the public that it is impossible to produce biometric passports by the end of the year." Gentlemen, I ask you which Europe do you want to go to? Is this possible? Is it possible that the Deputy Prime Minister forbids a state institution from providing information? What about the law on the availability of information? How is it possible that this is happening in a country that wants to go to Europe? The Deputy Prime Minister forbids facts and truth to the citizens of Serbia! It says, a biometric passport -- one of the conditions for introducing Serbia to the White Schengen list. During the election campaign, Djelic has repeatedly pledged that new passports will be available to citizens by the end of May. People, by the end of May should be available in 2008. I think we're in November 2008. What happened in the meantime? Who will bear this responsibility? Be careful, Mr Vuletic states further – the boys and girls from Djelic's office called us almost every day and asked if a passport with biometric protection would be done on time. We told them this job was impossible to do by the end of May. So, Bozidar Djelic lied, lied to Serbian citizens. The man presents the fact that Bozidar Djelic knew it was impossible to reach a new passport at the end of May. You needed it because of the election campaign. You should deceive the citizens of Serbia, as for those six billion in the September 2000 elections. What do you care what happens next? You're going into reform. Who do you think you're fooling? Little more citizens of Serbia. You think you've fooled Europe. No, not at all. They know who you are. You're just trying, with their help and alleged reforms, to get as much money as you can, to put them in your pockets and when there's a question of responsibility, where, my dear. That's what the problem you've been facing from the start, that there's no future with you. What is particularly asked as a question is the costs and damage that Serbian citizens, especially those abroad, have had due to the delay in new passports. You came out with information – new passports could not be obtained and citizens had to extract old passports on which the deadline of importance is 10 years. What are we going to do with these citizens? Who's going to make up for that damage? Our citizens abroad paid for the old passport 190 euros, and the new one should cost 50 euros. Who's gonna pay for that? Who will pay this scam to the citizens of Serbia? What will those who took out the passports on which the deadline is ten years? You're playing with things like that, and you're not interested in anything at all. All that matters to you is from new to new fraud. Cheat now, you'll try it next time, until one of these lines is drawn and you're in a position to pay for all of this. The finals of all this, this is the information that came out on Friday – 'white Schengen' on a long stick, which will say that this was all a fraud, a white Schengen or Schengen visa, 2010, 2011, 2012, who knows what year. Now we ask the question, gentlemen, who bears this responsibility? You said that in 2008, Serbia will be on the White Schengen list. You're running out of full moons and a half days. Who's going to be responsible? Do you think Bozidar Djelic has an elementary responsibility, first of all, as a human? How can a man who says to Parliament it's a black hole and it's a major disturbance on his way to Europe to have a responsibility, a man who cheated on you too? I know that for a fact. I know reliably that Boris Tadic, when he heard that he had 11m-euro shares, almost collapsed. That's the problem. There's not only more than him, but than many others who have been here for a long time, and he seems to be more capable, in a much shorter time, he's taken so much money. Shouldn't Bozidar Djelic lead us into Europe? How can a man who openly cheats on Serbian citizens like this take Serbia to Europe? Here's evidence, not by political opponents, but by your coalition partners. G17 claims Bozidar Djelic is a liar and presents the facts. Now the question is, how can you be together? I understand, there's a historic reconciliation agreement here, okay, there were some charms and fights, but between you, this seems like some common way of communicating, stealing you, stealing me, and what's the matter, lying to you, lying to me, it's important that this train goes, moving towards Europe, but it seems to be going round the road. It will hardly reach that destination that you have set as your goal, as the goal of all goals, because without Europe, we have no survival. However, I think that this information, that the white Schengen list is on a long stick, will have to turn into that people's list -- while those poles, they say, are understood by yellow, do not take hands, it seems that you will not abandon the fraud and looting of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7385	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group. Excuse me, MP Zlata Đeric. Did you want to follow the Rules of Procedure or on behalf of the group? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zlata Djeric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the respected public of Serbia, a brief question to the right address, Mr. Dacic, and this real subject of travel documents. It's a question that's been raised since this morning, with a photograph that drives around Parliament. Namely, who issues travel documents to citizens living in the territory of KIM, Serbs and Albanians? With which travel documents do Albanians travel around the world, does the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo, definitely not yet have the state, or are they using the travel documents of the state of Albania? How are they legitimateized and determined in the world, and what relationship does the Republic of Serbia have there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7387	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic, also wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7388	My colleague Zlata Đerić said – one picture of the car with the Assembly. I'll take the opportunity to give the picture to Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. The image shows the person in the role of the president, Mr Tadic, and below is Mr Dacic, together at the Socialist International Congress in Athens in 2006. That's the first thing. The second thing, since you are already here, Mr. Dacic, I have a question that was asked by the Association of Families Kidnapped and Exorcised with KIM, which is -- how is it that, after a criminal report filed against Mr. Thaci, on 18 February, in Serbia's MUP, and Thaci, and Sejdiu, and Krasniqi are no longer on the warrants? Are there red warrants behind them or not? As you know, in the case of Miladin Kovacevic, there was a lot of pressure from America not to return to Serbia's territory, so he was brought back here with incredible efforts and tried in Serbia. How is it possible that Mr Thaci travels with his passport, how is it not on the red Interpol warrant, and is it possible that the MUP does not stand behind the criminal report he filed on February 18th, after in Pristina on February 17th, organised the declaration of a false state on Serbia's soil? How much does all this have to do with this picture I gave you before?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7389	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7390	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, it is very difficult not to respect this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Travel Amendments, because voting against this law would hurt our citizens. So it is clear that we will support this change because we have nothing else left. It is also pointless to believe that you wanted this to happen, that someone at the Ministry of Police has decided to deny citizens the right to receive a new passport, but what is very important and what we must react to in this debate is a matter of responsibility, which should be monitored by every party, every institution, of course, Parliament, certainly, and the Government, which is crucially responsible for solving the problem under this law which regulates the issue of travel documents and periods in which they begin to apply, enter into force, etc. There's been a lot of talk here about Mr. Djelic. The fact that he has not come here speaks much more than any quote of his statements in the past year, which all of the provisions have been a great abuse of European ideas and compromises, not Serbian citizens, but politicians of this society, who have broken down the thresholds of the past ten years, asking Europe to understand the visa waiver regime for our citizens. We come from Bucharest. We spoke to our colleagues from the Liberal Party yesterday. Interior Minister Christian David welcomed you, said they have good co-operation with your ministry. What is important is that they too supported the resolution adopted in Stockholm three weeks ago, in which all the liberal parties of Europe support the visa waiver of Serbian citizens. With what arguments to come before our friends in Europe, and at a moment where there is no longer any obstacle other than our personal ability, to ask for a new understanding, because here, above all, it is the inability of our country to do a job that is vital to our citizens, and when the state is incompetent, then the state has to change, because it is definitely the only thing we can agree to. We cannot agree to the message that citizens should not expect a visa-free regime and be satisfied with the fact that they will have to be blasphemed in front of embassies, that they are frozen, that they will have to travel across Europe in those humiliating conditions, in which they are even, even, any MP who sets out the way of the EU, with travel documents that are below each level. So, for us, the question of responsibility, Mr. Dacic, is very important and I'm interested in what will you, not so much as a police minister, but as the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, do on this matter? Who's going to be in charge of these failures? It's something that has to bind us. The performance before Parliament, in which it will be said - citizens, we have not done the job, we have promised to do it, and even more important than that promise is that you have the right to travel freely as 21st-century citizens of Europe, and we have denied you the right to do so. Someone has to answer for that. The law was passed in 2007. The law behind which the parliamentary majority stood then is the same law we're talking about today. Most of the then ruling coalition is part of today's ruling coalition. Why did the Deputy Prime Minister, who was then in charge of European integration, pass a law that was unrealistic? That's what he's got to be responsible for. The second question is the frightening truth that we as a state are the biggest obstacle to achieving this European future of citizens, who expect us to do just that, because people in Serbia need to know that nothing stands as an obstacle to the visa-free regime, except for the inability of our country. In addition to replacing travel documents, we are obliged to adopt a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Where's the law? In this black hole, we'd like to see that law. Let's see when Parliament decided not to discuss the law on financing terrorism and preventing money laundering and when Parliament, in such a way, suspended our citizens' right to travel freely across the EU. The government did not pass the law to Parliament. So, even if we had travel documents, which we don't have, we couldn't travel freely across Europe, because there was no law that the government was obliged to pass on to Parliament. What about a whole series of strategies, which also have to be adopted not only, but also applied, so that we can use the freedoms and rights that come from better decorated travel documents? We have a national strategy for reintegration of returnees under the Readmission Agreement. We have a work plan on that strategy, and it hasn't been adopted yet. Listen now to the explanation of the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister, who enrolls a normative action of crucial importance for our visa liberalisation: "The creation of a strategy to fight drugs is under way. We have a working draft strategy for reintegration of returnees, according to the Readmission Agreement. We have a working strategy to fight organised crime and arrangements are under way for competent republican institutions to start working on a migration management strategy, including illegal migration." Okay, if the machine can't print or do something within the deadlines that the government has foreseen, what happens to all these strategies that are either in the work plan or in the phase of the work plan agreement? Who's responsible for such a thing, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and the First Vice President, we don't want to talk about the Ministry of Police? Call Mr Djelic, who has dared to falsify the European Commission's annual report. It's an unprecedented scandal. He forwarded two-and-a-half copies to the relevant assembly committee, which completely falsify the European Commission's report. That's a big problem. This has nothing to do with the EU's accession office. This has to do with his ambition to deceive you in the Government, and then us in Parliament, because we were sent to Parliament a copy that you received in the Government, although the competent services of the Assembly did not want to do at first. Is that right, Madam Vice President, if you're being directed? If you're not, we'll help you. The assembly has asked the vice president's office to further confirm whether it is sure it wants to forward two-and-a-half pages of the European Commission's report to us instead of full translation. What does that report say that we have no right to see and hide from the citizens of this country? It is condemned, among other things, to the ineffectiveness of the Assembly, but what is the crucial criticism in the work of the Assembly? It's the absence of a public debate, of talking about laws. And it's the passing of the law in an emergency procedure, which, in practice, is getting rid of that job. It is exclusively within the authority of the ruling coalition. We said that at any moment we would support every European endeavor of your government, we don't even mind the definition of that government that it describes itself as pro-European, but we would like to have concrete evidence for such a commitment. They are very few, if everything that is full of our public life is excluded, and these are phrases and irresponsible promises. What did the government do after the government's establishment of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, in which he accused the governor of the National Bank of Serbia of obstruction in the issue of passports? Has the government cleared up these relations? What did the government do when the Deputy Prime Minister accused Parliament of being the biggest braker in European integration? I will remind you, on 7 August 2008, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European affairs in this country humiliated Parliament. There is no Europe without democracy, and the foundation of democracy is parliamentary life. What does the Deputy Prime Minister say? "If Parliament's blockades degrade and prevent the adoption of laws important for obtaining a white Schengen list in September, it will make it impossible to get that list by the end of the year. Citizens must know that those blocking Parliament have not only blocked the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the energy future of Serbia, the one you are secretly negotiating with the Russians now, which is nowhere in European politics, 'already blocked by these key human freedom, freedom of movement and visa waiver for Serbian citizens. '"Who now blocked that freedom? Machines can't print out those passports, there's some procedure. Let's say, okay, and in six months, we'll get new documents. Where are the laws? Where are the strategies? Where is the responsibility for compromising every politician? Did you seek, in contact with all the foreigners you met, a visa-free regime for Serbian citizens? Well, that's what every one of us was doing. When we get that right, we're incompetent and we have the right to do it. Serious governments sanction something like that. We're asking you to take responsibility for it, as Deputy Prime Minister. Here, Parliament has not been discussed, following the suspension of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there is no discussion here on the full suspension of the European integration process, no talks in Parliament or on the European Commission's report. Finally, here we have amendments and additions to the Law, which say, 'No. 2008 is changing by the number of 2009'. That is what the European policy of Mr. Cvetkovic and you are about, Mr. Dacic. For us at this point, the most important issue of your willingness to take responsibility for a new deadline here in Parliament. Turns out it's the citizens now who are responsible for the fact that we don't have travel documents, not the state. Nor did the citizens devalue themselves to the extent that they were forced into this humiliating status, what visa travel status it was, but it was the result of our state's irresponsible policy, nor can they now be responsible for the lack of passports. Of course, people will be pressured by daily problems and will remember the passport before the vacations. But since you know it, you are required to provide capacity to meet their demands. If that is not possible, you must now take clear initiatives to motivate these people to replace their travel documents in time. Does the police know who has all the travel documents? He knows. Is it a problem to create a computer program that would turn every passport owner and recommend when he can come for his travel document? Can the state get a little busy, or does the state remember when to take them to some stupid war and charge them taxes? If you have addresses when you send calls to the military, if you have addresses when you send a tax notice, well, then find addresses of people who have passports and send them a letter – I, the minister of police, the first vice president and vice president, apologize for having to humiliate yourself and freeze before the embassies in Belgrade and invite you to use your right in the next six months, every day, in that place and that place. Well, if no one answers, send another letter in seven days, then in three weeks, then people will realize that the state also cares about them to exercise their rights. Unfortunately, so far, the state has not shown in any way, except that it has manipulated these basic needs of our society, harshly misusing the fact that someone is in power, so the election campaign has divided passports. Look what Parliament looks like. One of the provincial cinema halls. There is no congregation that speaks as badly of itself as this one is ours. Whose idea is that and whose need is that? We've been listening to political promises for years, and we're ready to make those promises come true, but we need partners to do that. There are obviously not enough quality partners in this government to solve travel documents effectively. We expect answers from you. We went to Stockholm three weeks ago and from Stockholm came a resolution that basically requires all of Europe's liberal parties, including two Dutch parliamentary parties, to review the Stabilisation and Association Agreement suspension. In no way has our country reacted, in any way. It was confirmed yesterday in Bucharest. Yesterday we had a meeting with the Home Secretary, we talked about visas, organized joint fight against human trafficking, organised crime, we talked to the Prime Minister, we got his support for the process of European integration without conditions, but there are no willing partners for such a thing, and it has to change. You won't, you'll fail in all of this. We'll meet in a year here, if you're a minister, and we'll write again – it's changing in 2010, because you and I both know, and that's what's hiding -- how much, in fact, there are issued travel documents in the country. Is it true that the Deputy Prime Minister made a mistake, so instead of 3,700,000, he said 700,000, and then the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Police, I think it was Mrs. Orescanin at the time, who made the most of it to explain to him that it wasn't 700,000 but 3,700,000, but it didn't make a commitment anymore? How can the Deputy Prime Minister be so incompetent? He says 11% of Serbian citizens have travel documents. It is not true that 3,700,000 people in this country have passports, which they use to a greater or lesser extent. In order for the travel document taken by people to be accepted by the EU, at least two-thirds of the travel documents should be replaced. Well, that's what people should be told. There are terrible problems with people who took passports in the meantime. The visa in the old one is being transferred to a new passport. He's got to travel with two IDs. If you come to those border crossings that are computerized, where there are latest electronic forms, you'll see that they have a terrible problem because it's part of the visa number part of the passport, old, and when they type data into that electronic form, which cannot be changed, the computer system rejects such a passport. That's what happens to us in London, for example. Then we depend on the goodwill of an official at the border crossing, who should understand this schizophrenic position, that we come with the passport of the former state, because we have passports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was a state before the state community, and today we live in Serbia, yes, we also have Serbian passports, that the passport of Serbia is valid, that it is not valid for this former state, but that in an invalid former state is a visa. Who can understand that? It's not worth a good smile or a nice show. This is what our country is responsible for. I'm looking for responsibility for something like that. First come out here and condemn the behavior of the Deputy Prime Minister. Well, your coalition won't fall apart, your coalition won't fall apart because of it. Will someone give him a more lesson, teach him how the Deputy Prime Minister is acting in charge of European integration, politically retraining him, telling him that he cannot be manipulated by European ideas, that he cannot speak falsely, that Parliament cannot be slandered, and that he is not prepared to take responsibility for the work of this Parliament? That's all the weaknesses. I'm not saying you're happy about this. We will vote for this law, but it is the last thing you can count as a form of LDP concession to Mr Cvetkovic's government. So much irresponsibility has not been followed by any previous cabinets. You're not in the business of European integration, but you're not just a minister of police engaged in the government. Since you're Deputy Prime Minister, allow us here, not satisfaction, but this simple confirmation of the need to finally answer for everyone in this country, that we as the opposition, too, if we've made a mistake here, but that the ruling coalition and those who have taken the job. When was Parliament a hindrance to the adoption of these laws? When did the opposition commit obstruction by adopting law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing? What strategy has the opposition blocked here in Parliament? How are we responsible for not printing passports? In 2003, we realized this program through these funds. Here we are in 2008, entering 2009 with one big zero. It is the real name and real assessment of the European policy of Mr. Cvetkovic's government, one big nothing. A lot of non-binding stories, too many phrases, absolute irresponsibility and minimal ability to accept such a condition and to change something. This will make it a very interesting session of the Committee on Friday. As far as I know, two important topics will be organised on Friday – the future of European integration in the country and the work and trust of the Government. That, in fact, says how much Europe is, in fact, in the second plan at this point in our country. Once again, I will tell the citizens – we will not compromise on these matters. They should know that this is the sole responsibility of representatives of the ruling coalition, both the previous and the present, that everyone has manipulated this accident that burdens our society, that everyone has abused the good will of Europe, the great effort. They paid us to do it, they trained us to do it. All the obstacles were removed from our path, and then we started setting them for ourselves. We expect you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, first Deputy Prime Minister, to tell us who will be responsible if these targets are not met in 2009. So much, and we will vote for this law, which is the least we can do for those who will freeze, as they froze in front of the embassy this morning, in the ranks they stand in, because they were pushed into these lines by the irresponsible representatives of the government of Mr. Cvetkovic, and before all Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7391	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and he's been given the floor under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7392	Dear Members, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I asked the last government, or minister of justice, why did Serbia not press charges against Croatia for the crimes of genocide committed during the 20th century? As is known, the crime of genocide does not go out of date. The government has done nothing so far. It is a long list of crimes against Serbs by the Roman Catholic Croats. It all started from 1895, when it was carried out by a pogrom of the Serbians, only because they had pointed out the Serbian Orthodox flag at the Orthodox Church, to honor their emperor, Franc Josef. Furthermore, in 1902 there was also a terrible attack on the Zagreb Serbs on Vlaska Street. At the same time, a timetime chronicler called the event "arnautluk in Zagreb". That name itself speaks of what actions were taken against the Serbs. Further, since 1914, terrible crimes have been committed in World War I. The first true genocide took place in Machva, Šapac, when Roman Catholic Croats committed numerous crimes against the civilian Serb population. In the same period, Šuckori in Bosnia, Croats and Muslims, in the Austrian special unit, were liquidated by numerous Serbs. About this, well-known historian Vladimir Corovic wrote a book simply called "Black Book". It is very important that the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and even King Alexander, never prosecuted crimes on behalf of the new ideology of the liberal Yugoslavia, or liberal brotherhood. Even King Alexander translated many Austrian officers into the Serbian army. The 1941 genocide in NDH was described in numerous monographs. He's well-known, by the way, to our public. I will only list camps where the mass liquidation of Serbs, Jews, Roma and Croats was carried out. It is, first of all, the Ustasha system of the camp "Jasenovac", then the Ustasha system of the "Gospić" camp, which included the town of Gospić, the Velebit Cave, first of all, the area of Jadovno, and then Karlobag, camp "Slano" on Pag. I'm surprised the Jews haven't filed a suit against Croatia for the crimes of genocide against the Jewish people so far. In NDH, many caves have been filled with Serbs, hundreds of caves in the former NDH area are filled with Serbs. Then the Serbs were thrown into wells, septic pits. The communist authorities of Josip Broz pardoned Ustasha crimes, on behalf of the Serb people. He never visited Jasenovac. The liquidation of Serbs after the war, i.e. accounts with the so-called "Serbs". People's traitors, 1945, were numerous. Furthermore, the liquidation of Serbs on the island of Gol in 1948, on behalf of the communist government of Josip Broz, or further crimes against Serbs in 1991, was once again the first to begin the Croats - with the individual killing of Serb families in urban areas, the attack on barracks, the liquidation of Serbian reserves... (President: Time.) ) Just a minute, for example, the case of the Koran bridge etc. Due to the hopeless position of Western Serbs, the action of the regular Yugoslav forces against Croatian rebels followed. Therefore, it is simply amazing that Croatia is initiating a lawsuit against the Serbian state and the people, who suffered the most from war crimes and genocides in the 20th century. I ask the question – does this government think to press charges against Croatia for war crimes and genocides committed during the 20th century? (President: Speak for four minutes. I expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7393	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to open a principled search, to apply for a word in writing, with order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups - LDP, DSS, SPS - JS, SRS. I give the word first declared on the list, MP Ivan Andric, and after him is MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7394	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, this is the second time in the last ten days that the government has shown an incredible insecure and irresponsible approach to European integration in this country. It became more than clear, there were speeches already in the opening statements here, when the so-called "so-called" arrived. A summary of the European Commission's report, i.e. the falsification that has been pushed over by the Assembly, continues with unknown motives, as it is simply amazing that someone thought we would not read the original report of the European Commission. And the law on amending and supplementing this law, even though it's more than cynical, because now I'm going to quote what it says, i.e. It is really cynical that the 2008 issue is replaced by the 2009 number, although it is essentially talking about other things, it is an opportunity to look back at the government's work on European integration. Another news that appeared today in the media also proves what we've been talking about all this time. The Council for European Integration was therefore not formed either, although there was an obligation for it to meet in September. It's the beginning of November, and there's no word about it. Even those who function as members of the government's Council for European Integration do not know they are members of the Council. But let's take it in a row. So, the approach is, as we've said several times so far, irresponsible and irresponsible. He's irresponsible because it's very easy to make promises, some kind of statement. There's been a lot of quotes for this pay phone, but let me just sum them up. Bozidar Djelic, "Pres", February 3, 2008, and do you know what happened on February 3, 2008 -- the second round of presidential elections: "By the end of the year, Serbian citizens will be able to put a new passport in their pocket and go wherever they want and whenever they want. In Serbia's MUP, the passport will be issued in March... "There is this mistake, another one, which speaks more about the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic -- that according to official statistics, 11% of Serbian citizens have a passport. Has he not heard of the number 3,700,000, but heard of the number 700,000 and manipulated the number in talks with the EU? We will remind you that Mr Djelic, in negotiations with the European Commission, has used and benefited, since he knows that the meeting is scheduled and that it takes an hour, the next tactics. When he starts to listen to remarks, and when he doesn't like those remarks, he starts talking and talking for an hour, until the meeting is over, as if they don't say those remarks, those remarks will cease to exist. He did the same thing in the European Integration Committee on Friday. He, believe me, spoke until they all came out of that room. It's an hour and 10 minutes of constant talk, and none of the people in that room would be able to tell you again what he was talking about. Millions of euros, thousands, millions of passports, all these years, by the end of this year, and finally - what? Irresponsibility. The essence of European integration is the introduction of responsibilities into politics. I'm taking the opportunity to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, who's responsible for the fact that passports haven't been issued yet? Can we get one name, who's responsible because we're promised to be betrayed? What is the proposal for this law, what choice is it for Serbian Parliament MPs? Either vote for this so that they can be replaced by the end of next year, or three million people, or 3,500,000 people won't have a valid document. Is that the proposal the government makes to the MPs? Who's to blame for that? So much for responsibility. That's inconclusive. I think that this unseriousness is manifested at every step this government takes in the process of European integration. Is that what you're talking about? I think that Bozidar Djelic has become a synonym for unseriousness for everyone, and in this assembly. He's the first to make a statement that's full of enthusiasm. I'll remind you here of his -- come on, come on, come on, come on, and then media strategists call on the phone all the media, and that's the first news. Will this be the first news today, that the Serbian government is responsible for the citizens not being able to be on the white Schengen list? Is that gonna be news today? If it's not the government, who is it? Let me just, in the end, Cedomir Jovanovic was saying something. You know, there's one serious thing that Bozidar Djelic does to this country and to all of us individually. He compromises the idea of European integration, with his indifference, and I don't know what kind of desires, just to be at the centre of attention, seriously compromises this country in front of our European partners. The idea of European integration is also compromised by the citizens of Serbia, after its idiotic, so I have to call it - the agreement will be applied, we are going to Brussels, so now everyone hates Holland, even though each of us knew that this would not be the case, that the agreement would not be ratified. So today, he says, and yesterday – we will come to the White Schengen list regardless of, for example, co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Is that what anyone really thinks? Is this the official position of the Serbian government that the EU will allow Mladic or Hadzic to board a plane and go to Paris and no longer hide here, in Topcider, but hide in the vicinity of the Eiffel Tower? Why is he doing this? Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, there's your responsibility. Why is Bozidar Djelic allowed to deal with something he's obviously not capable of? After all this time, that's very clear. Because of Serbian citizens, the truth must be known – that, the condition is, politically, co-operation with The Hague tribunal, for coming to the White Schengen list, yes, the government has not adopted at least five other strategies contained in a document called the Roadmap and, yes, the Serbian Parliament has not passed a law on the prevention of money laundering and the fight against terrorism, or as it is already called. The law came to the congregation, was on the agenda, and then the government withdrew it. It is not only the number of passports preventing Serbia, it prevents not only the number of valid Serbian citizens' passports from travelling, but is a fundamental obstacle to the nelados, irresponsibility and indemnity of the Serbian government in the work on European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7395	The word has the People's MP Zeljko Tomic, followed by Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7396	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at first, shall I say a small correction to what the minister was saying immediately. In one part, he said that this law was passed a few years ago, and was brought only a year ago, it entered into force on 9 October of last year, and it began to apply six months since then, meaning April 9th of this year. What the explanation says is, that's the most interesting thing to me, and there's no more words about it, for someone to explain to us this first sentence, how, in the meantime, there's been objective difficulties. We want to hear what objective difficulties these are, who caused them, because, by chance, we have every right to suspect that these difficulties are subjective. Do we have every right to seek responsibility for the lack of new passports in Serbia? I will remind you, you too, Mr Dacic, and Mr Djelic announced new passports and told the citizens to hurry to file demands and get these new passports, and 204 citizens received them. It is by Minister Djelic, I don't know if you, Mr Dacic, have a new passport, but it is hypocritical to Serbian citizens who cannot count on a new passport, who only have to extend this old passport. What one of our colleagues has already asked is a question that is being raised – how many of these laws are we going to pass and will we once a year, always at this time, only this number 2008, which we are changing in 2009, this year again, 2009/2010, 2010 in 2011, and who is it that will finally tell us – no, we will have new passports then and then, there will be no objective or subjective difficulties? Of course, there is talk about the white Schengen list a lot and that this is a fundamental issue that is related to both the new passport and the change of this law. The main question is when will Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic come down from television, get off the news post, come down here and explain why he didn't hit anything he predicted, and only the Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of European integration? Why doesn't he sit here and come before the citizens of Serbia and Serbian MPs and say what it is with these new passports, who he waved to, as a football judge in a rough yellow card game, which he depicted along with 204 credited citizens, publicly representing himself as a monopoliest and stories about new passports? Now he's gone nowhere, now he's gone to say it here, but only on a haired and set show, where he's going to make a statement to which he's going to hide these basic facts that the opposition has mostly brought out today. He's nowhere to explain what it is with the white Schengen leaf, what it is with the new passports. I will remind you, in September, only two months ago, that same vice-president Bozidar Djelic said the European Commission will assess the readiness for visa relief in the spring, which corresponds to the plan to get a white Schengen in the summer. Only two months ago he announced – in 2009 we have a white Schengen. He is again denied by those who know it, who know what will happen, and again there is no responsibility for the Deputy Prime Minister of Bozidar Djelic. I ask these "white witch" and "black Mages" not to bother us with their bad predictions and false promises anymore, which reminds me very much of Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, who spoke, remember that we will join the EU in 2007. Well, also, this government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, may, say, suggest that in just two years, 2010, the proposal will be the central place to celebrate winning the World Cup in football, since we can assume that we will also win the World Cup in football, so that we know where to celebrate. We can set things up like that. There's no sparrow in the arm, no pigeon on the branch, but it's easy for citizens to plant all kinds of colorful lies, and there's a lot of promises. The new passports, however, end up with someone in Serbia, there is one institution in Serbia, which should be praised by the team. It's the Veterinary Authority. Passports were made bilingually, in Serbian and English, according to patterns applied by all EU countries. With the Association of Horsemen of Serbia, the Veterinary Administration has already agreed standards on what passports should look like to allow for the smooth transport of horses, as well as the participation of horses in races abroad. The first horse register is under way in Serbia, which, as the last large animals, will receive a centralised database after cattle, pigs, goats and sheep, said Slobodan Micevic, head of the Veterinary Authority. The horses will be built on microchips and they can today, with standardised passports, travel and represent Serbia all over Europe. We people, citizens of Serbia, have so-called objective difficulties, which no one can explain. They are easy citizens for new passports, pensioners, workers are fired, and only one question – is there responsibility, is there anyone who will say it's not true what we said? Here, we'll take responsibility that way and that way, we'll resign or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7397	The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7398	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Government, esteemed fellow MPs, remind me that I am, in accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, asked the National Assembly to adopt, following an urgent procedure, a draft law amending the Law on travel documents, extending the period of validity of the old passports, diplomatic and official passports from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2009. In this regard, the adoption of this law points to the fact that in the meantime there have been objective difficulties in meeting the technical conditions for drawing up new passports, diplomatic and official passports, and that this has resulted in a delay in issuing passports on new forms and inability to replace old passports within the prescribed deadline this year. Due to the above problems, we consider it logical to extend the appropriate amendments to the Law in order to extend the period of validity of the old passports, diplomatic and official passports until 31 December 2009, or for another year. We believe that it is time enough to carry out all the necessary transformations in the regulations and that the job of issuing passports, diplomatic and official passports is done in accordance with the law, in favour of and in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. Starting with these needs, and in line with the fact that in the process of European integration, which is aimed at Serbia, the fundamental assumption of the adoption of the travel documents law is that this law is adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It should in particular underline that the adoption of passport laws will address many issues of a better position for our citizens who want to travel and co-operate with other citizens and institutions in the world. In this sense, this law does not constitute a mere normative code of legal practice in Serbia, the law on travel documents is an effective normative expression of the pragmatic effort of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to address the issue of the exit of our citizens, both in EU countries and in all other countries of the international community. That is why, and starting with the interests of our citizens, the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7399	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday we discussed the proposals for some law amending and supplementing the law, afternoon, and also, we have a law on amending and supplementing the law, and now we have a law amending the Law on travel documents. Why am I stressing this? It is precisely to draw Serbia's public attention to how unserious the government of Boris Tadic is, how unseriously involved it is in its work and how unwitting representatives of the assembly majority are when they warn the SRS MPs that they are allegedly obstructing the work, because we are talking about the bill's proposals and we are trying to regulate the laws with amendments, so that we do not have amendments and amendments to the law at all times. Every time we warn, we also warned when the Law on Passports was passed, or about travel documents, that we would have problems, that this law would not be applicable, that we were not going back to that period now, but then from the congregation's majority we had assurances, of course, and from the government's representatives, that it was all prepared, only to pass the law, that, as Djelic would say, we would avoid that black hole, and according to Djelic, it is the National Assembly. It is obvious that the only black hole in Serbia is the government of Boris Tadic and that everything they do, or what they don't do, is actually at the expense of Serbian citizens. The Law on Road Documents entered into force on 9 October 2007. Then there was the story that it was one of the laws that would quickly introduce us to Europe, i.e. the EU, that would put us on the white Schengen list, and then, some time ago, that law group was adopted here when Bozidar Djelic, you remember, jumping around this pay phone, waving his hands -- let's, come on, let's go to the EU, go to the white Schengen list, just to get the Assembly to adopt those bill proposals. You've been passed bill proposals, but Djelic hasn't shown up in this parliament since, and he's supposed to be today. Here, Krasic says he's still jumping. It is possible that he has not yet been informed that he has received a slap, I do not mean in a literal sense, when he returned to Serbia to inform us that there is nothing from the white Schengen list until the end of next year, and the question is, in general, by the end of what year, it will happen if it happens. Mr. Dacic, you're probably embarrassed to have to listen to all this. We expect you, as vice president, or first Deputy Prime Minister, to answer all these questions, and otherwise we think that Mr Djelic should be sitting here, because he is the one who deceives citizens from all the media about when we will be in the European Union. He's the one who sets the dates, he's the one who says when we're going on the white Schengen list. Of course, what he says in election campaigns, and he, and some others, is very different from reality. You see, on May 3, 2008, it was eight days before those May elections, held on May 11th. What does the Wolf Jeremy say? Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic says, confirmed for our television, that from next week, the EU's visa for all Serbian citizens will be free of charge. It is the first step on the visa-free path, which will be established by the end of the year, Vuk Jeremic said on May 3, 2008, I stress, eight days before the last elections. This is how, dear citizens of Serbia, lie, deceive you, and thus lead you to vote for those who, in fact, say everything they lie and do nothing in the interests of Serbia and Serbian citizens, but only in their own personal interest. It's possible that Wolf Jeremic, when he said this, was thinking of himself. When the Law on travel documents was passed, and even when these groups of laws were passed, which were supposed to put us on the white Schengen list, of which there is nothing, we warned that what these laws contain, in fact, means that without any problem, government members, senior state officials, members of Parliament, students who go abroad in some student exchanges or on excursions, estrace stars. All of you, not before these laws, not before this law, had no problem getting visas and traveling into the white world. Nothing has been done for an ordinary man, for ordinary citizens, who you have filled your head so full with a white Schengen leaf, that people, minors, have created such a picture that only this white Schengen list, that it is the only thing that will contribute to the better life of Serbian citizens. It happened that someone told me in that election campaign, when Vuk Jeremic spoke this way, that he would vote for DS because they would provide us with those Schengen visas. Then I ask someone, well, if I get you a Schengen visa tomorrow, where are you going to travel? The man tells me - where to travel, I don't have the money to survive here, I don't have the money to eat, let alone travel. The media influence is incredible and here's one of the evidence. Here we heard from all colleagues who said there was an unexplained question left, an unexplained dilemma – who is responsible for what has been happening to these passports so far. Since we don't have an answer, it seems best to put Djelic and Jelasic in some ring, so let's see, whoever wins, that's less responsible. All media, particularly printed, were flooded in the previous period with comments on who was responsible for those passports, i.e. passports, which appeared, and were withdrawn, and then, on June 26th 2008, Ljubisa Vuletic, director of the Institute for the Making of Monetarys and Coins, said that making a new passport was worth about 30m euros, and that everything was done in co-operation with the consortium of Slovenian and German companies, which received the job in the tender. Djelic's cabinet was informed daily, Vuletic said, about all issues related to the process of making new passports, so it is completely unclear what he was now encouraged to be surprised when he spoke of the delay and guilt of the National Bank of Serbia. So, Mr. Dacic, you remain a duty to answer, or to ensure that Djelic comes and that he responds – what about these forms of passports that are unusable, which are spent on making these forms, how much money did it cost the citizens of Serbia and who was responding? Did he answer, as he replied, who he was and did anyone compensate for the damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the Republic of Serbia for those funds that we do not know what they are? Also, we don't even know how much new patterns cost right now. It's a double cost to us now. These are questions that Serbian citizens are asking for an answer. You've been here talking about the issue of new passports, the issue of ID cards, and you've brought out a lot of data. I remind you that, when the calls were made a few months ago, the maltenes, by that people's -- the crowds, the sales, the citizens, you sign up, you file for new ID cards, for new passports, you've caused problems in the municipal administrations of the MUP, you've caused problems for the citizens. On Friday, I accidentally spoke to a neighbor who said that she and her husband were picking up new ID cards in Zemun and that they arrived at five in the morning, and about 2:00 in the afternoon, they finished the job. Imagine you, at five o'clock in the morning, and there were some people waiting at three o'clock at midnight. Is that normal? You should've organized the job first, then called out like that, come on, come on, come on, come on, guys, but the bottom line is, "Go get the peoples" means, come on, people, file the demands, pay the tax, fill the budget, and if you're going to get the right forms, when you're going to get passports, when you're going to get your ID cards, that's the state of Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't care. There have been other cases since 2000. The most famous is the one where the application for legalisation of objects, which cannot be legalised until today and are not legalised because the law is not applicable, but it was also important to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget with administrative fees from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The question – what will happen, how will the state return the money they gave to the citizens of Serbia for those passports whose forms are not good? The citizens also paid a fee for it. If I get from the Office of Revenue that I owe 23 dinars, I get the solution that I am obliged to pay within what time limit, very short, with a interest that is three times the basic debt, will you in this way return to the citizens of Serbia the fee they paid for the forms, which, in fact, means nothing, because they are not good? The promises we received from this place, from the media, in particular, from the government's representatives, that the conditions for the white Schengen list, the conditions for European integration -- the laws we need to make here are also a colorful lie. You must tell the citizens of Serbia the truth, and the truth is that on the white Schengen list, we will not go to the European Union as long as we have criminalised power, as long as we do not have industrial production, as long as there are millions of unemployed, with the threat of new resignations, as long as you do not complete your co-operation with The Hague tribunal, as long as you do not recognise Kosovo as an independent republic, as long as you do not take the first step towards separating Vojvodina, i.e. do not adopt the statutes of the Duke. That's what's very clear now. There are no more assumptions. That's what's clearly being drawn, and what's still waiting for us, we'll find out when you finish this part of the job. On Friday, chief UN tribunal prosecutor Serge Brammertz came to Serbia. It is very interesting that the talks that state officials and officials are having with Serge Brammertz are far from the public eye. They say it's common, the media tells us Brammertz doesn't give after such discussions with the media, that he doesn't hold a conference. None of our officials can say what they talked to Brammertz. They can't, because they didn't talk, they listened to orders. Brammertz came to order certain people in Serbia to do what they should do in some future period. The topics, some journalists learned, were co-operation with The Hague trumpet, which implies the arrest of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. Of course, we still believe, we hope, and we want that never to happen. The second topic was the exchange of documentation between state authorities in Serbia and The Hague tribunal, the third -- witness security. That's why Serge Brammertz actually came to Serbia. When it comes to the exchange of documents, we Serbian radicals, members of the defence team Vojislav Seselj, have often talked from here about the relationship of the Serbian state, because we have experience in the Hague tribunal on the indictment of our president, we have experience and we know that all archives for The Hague tribunal in Serbia have been opened long ago, that any document needed by the UN tribunal, as soon as possible, is being removed from the official secret, state secrets, military secrets. So we no longer have any secrets in the state of Serbia compared to The Hague tribunal, but that is why we have many secrets in relation to the citizens of Serbia, because from Serbian citizens, the government, the representatives of the government, hide what is, in fact, the real truth and the representatives of the government lead the citizens of Serbia astray. That same documentation they provide to The Hague tribunal, the authorities would have to deliver at the same time to the team, I am talking about our defence team, Vojislav Seselj, which, of course, applies to the other Serbs in The Hague tribunal, to their defence. However, we have to find out from the ninth hand that it went to The Hague tribunal, so that we're looking for it officially, in writing, and then it's lost somewhere, so it goes five, six, seven, eight months between when the document was won by Serge Brammertz, or his prosecutors, and the moment the same document gets Vojislav Seselj or his defense team. That's how you co-operate with The Hague tribunal. Why is this issue of witness security particularly interesting? It's still about the case against Vojislav Seselj. It is obvious that the UN tribunal no longer has witnesses to testify in proceedings against Vojislav Seselj, on the side of the prosecution. So far there were 50 of them and all 50 of them, the public of Serbia could see it, testified as if they were witnesses of the defence, because there was no evidence against Vojislav Seselj, because Vojislav Seselj never committed any crime, let alone a crime of war. That's clear to Brammertz and his team of prosecutors. They literally have a witness security problem. Today, the working week began in The Hague, today a female expert appeared there, for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, no witnesses were provided. Then they say Vojislav Seselj needs to be imposed by a lawyer, because he is obstructing the tribunal in The Hague. Imagine who would normally sit in Cheveningen for six years and obstruct the work, and it's obvious that the Hague tribunal is doing so. Why am I tying this to this law and to the arrival of Brammertz? Because it is one of the conditions that needs to be met by the state of Serbia. Now the competent authorities, Mr. Dacic, must provide witnesses in the proceedings against Vojislav Seselj, witnesses who have declared themselves to be witnesses of the defense. I am talking to you because the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes and the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia and the investigative judge are involved in this job, in particular, one investigative judge. So, these days, before Brammertz came, people who, possibly, are witnesses of the defence of Vojislav Seselj, cannot defend themselves against the attacks against the representatives of all of these organs in Serbia that I mentioned. They call them on the phone, they come to the door, they blackmail again, they threaten again -- you have to go, we'll provide you, we'll take whoever you want. The man says I can't. I'm sick. They ask, "Where do you live?" Here and here. Here we are, arriving from Sarajevo in a few hours, as long as it takes for them to come to that part of Serbia; they pick up someone from Serbia's MUP and the Special Prosecutor's Office, then a man at the door. People no longer know what to do, how to defend themselves, and no one in the state of Serbia will say: "Wait, we don't want that kind of co-operation; if these people say they want to be witnesses of the defense, when the time comes for defence, if Vojislav Seselj invites them to be witnesses of the defense, let them go. Don't make the state authorities turn these people, from witnesses to defense, into witnesses to the charges. So that's the real reason Serge Brammertz came. Nothing means what is the extended deadline for issuing new passports, except for all these questions, which I hope we will get an answer, which were identical, regardless of who asked them from the MPs. There is nothing from the white Schengen list, there is nothing from the EU either, until you finish your job with The Hague tribunal, until you recognise Kosovo as an independent state and until you set out to secede Vojvodina. It's a sad truth, but unfortunately, it's true. That is why there is no debate on the resolution of the Members of the People. Since June, we have insisted that we discuss Kosovo and Metohija here. There's no way to talk about it. There's some preconditions that need to be met before, so let's talk about the things we've already done here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7401	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and gets word on Article 100(1), followed by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7402	Madam Vice President, even though our parliamentary group has plenty of time and I was able to report and get on the list, I would like to ask a question in the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, because I want written information, Mr Dacic, from your ministry and from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a very important issue, which no one in Serbia is talking about for months anymore, and neither are you, which is a question of dual citizenship for Serbs in Montenegro. You started in a very humiliating, for you personally, and for the state of Serbia, in one more than inferior attitude and attitude towards Montenegro's Interior Minister Jusuf Kalamperovic, etc. negotiations on dual citizenship. You remember that you went to Podgorica and discussed something ahead of the decision by the separatist regime of criminal Milo Djukanovic to recognise the Cypriot state of Kosovo. After that, absolutely no Serb from Serbia's Montenegro, as well as here in Serbia, could get information further. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that the Serbs in Montenegro and Serbia, that we adopted the Law on Citizenship and that, more or less, it was, with some amended text, a consensus of all patriotic political parties in Serbia, above all, the SRS, the DSS, the NS and the SPS, in the past, when you were the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Defence and Security, Mr Dacic, that the possibility of all Serbs from Montenegro, not only to Serbs, but to all Serbs wherever they live, but there was a delegation from Montenegro, headed by Mr. Mandic, the president of the "Serbian List", was that anyone who wants to get the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, because he recognises Serbia as their country of origin. What happened after that? Right away, as they say, these separatists welcomed the knife and said, "Well, he can't." That's what he told you, or tell me, I'm looking for a written answer – what did he say to you, and how far did it come with that, this unfortunate Yusuf Kalamperović? He said, after you left, whoever wants to go to Serbia. It can't. If a Montenegrin Serb seeks citizenship in Serbia, he loses all rights there. The government is threatening and saying they can't do that. That's the only truth. People are employed by the state administration, in private enterprises, well, it's the private criminal state of Milo Djukanovic and his regime. Every Serb, every man who is a full-time citizen of Montenegro, who feels Serbian, and, thank God, there are more than 30% of them, according to the last census, we need to encourage, the state of Serbia should help and say it – we will do it. If he really told you and it is the official response of the Montenegrin authorities, Mr Dacic, we must protect Serbs, nicely, then enter the process so that we give them the citizenship of Serbia, which they are looking for, and then you do not report it to the separatist regime of Milo Djukanovic. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I don't know what else to tell you. We have to find some model, here, I end up, because in this strategy of Serbia's integration into the EU -- respected colleagues, you've all got this, there are 830 pages, I read this carefully whenever I can, this is a document that you stand behind, Mr Dacic, among other things, talking about bilateral relations between Serbia and Montenegro. You haven't written a single letter... (President: Four minutes. Here I am finishing up, you didn't write about dual citizenship. It's a shame and a shame. We need, as a state, to immediately protect our countrymen's interests in Montenegro. Thank you, and I'm sorry that I overstepped my time, and I'm waiting to get this information, written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7403	The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7404	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, in my address, Mr. Dacic, I will address you more as Deputy Prime Minister than I will as Minister of the Interior, because the situation in which we have found ourselves when it comes to European integration requires, indeed, urgent measures and the functioning of the Government. Since you are the Prime Minister in the absence of Cvetkovic, I think you can help us. It is indisputable that we will vote for this law, indisputable citizens have been brought into a difficult situation and that they thought and feared that they would cease to be subject to passports. The fact is that this is due to this irresponsibility, and that is why, as well as my colleague Jovanovic, I will at first talk a little bit more about responsibility and appeal to you to do something about responsibility. In March of last year, the Committee on European Integration was told, very clearly, that the deadline that was then proposed in the Law, which we are now changing, is unrealistic. If that's what Vesna Pesic and General Delic said, then I guess it was clear that it had weight. Now it turns out it's true. We did not get in your explanation responsible for this delay, or for this misjudged assessment that it is possible to replace passports by the end of this year. At least when it comes to LDP, what we mentioned to Mr. Djelic, tell him, it's nothing personal. When he says on February 3rd, that next year, Serbian citizens will be able to put a new passport in their pocket and go wherever they want and whenever they want, because the EU has opened the door wide for us, he has not deceived the citizens, he has negatively affected the citizens' mood towards European integration. When he says the MUP states that the first passports will start issuing in March and that they are technically equipped to replace all passports for nine months, that the new passports will meet EU standards, making it easier for Serbia to access the White Schengen list, did not only deceive citizens and the public, it ruins Europe's image of citizens who are for Europe, and most have voted for it. When it says that by 2009, there will be conditions for citizens to travel more easily abroad, it also has a bad influence on the mood of citizens towards European integration. That's what LDP's worried about. We don't think marketing can run politics. Marketing makes it possible to get some votes in the election, but we're not in an election campaign. You have made a government that you have declared pro-European, which many people view as pro-European and that we, even in some way, can view as such. That is why we are helping her in some European affairs, because your government, in relation to the one that threatened us, is certainly pro-European. We are not satisfied, as the strongest, or as the most consistent opposition party of pro-European orientations, the work you do. That is why we think that these statements and such marketing, which most often come from your fellow vice president, essentially compromise European integration in Serbia. That's what we're worried about. We want you to be successful, that's why we're helping you, but you can't "let's go" European politics receive and can't deliver results. It's not the essence of coming to the yellow "South Florida," which is why citizens are now going to believe that the government is successful. It's not the point of that marketing. The election's over, the marketing's over. "Come on, come on" can't score. "Come on, come on" European politics can only compromise the European idea. We of the LDP do not want the European idea to be compromised, because, firstly, most citizens voted for it, and secondly, the better life of our citizens depends on it. So I ask you to do everything, as Deputy Prime Minister, so that this "let's go" policy doesn't spread to the entire government. Let's keep that specificity to one vice president. Do something to really become a government that tries, less or more successfully, but is seriously trying to finish these European jobs. Mr Dacic, the Council for European Integration, which formed Djindjic's further government, met for the last time when Cedomir Jovanovic was deputy prime minister in 2003. Since then, he's never met before. The fact that Vojislav Kostunica did not call him in two terms is no wonder, even for expectations. If Mr. Cvetkovic, after four or five months, has not yet found it appropriate to call on that advice, so that you can discuss whether "let's go, come on" European policy is a real European policy, or should do it more seriously, then you, as Deputy Prime Minister, can do the job. So, you will have support for specific European affairs, and for this circus, charlatan policy, which compromises the idea of Europe and European integration in Serbia -- no. For what we had to vote, or what came to us as one reality, that these passports couldn't be replaced, it's nothing controversial. Mr. Dacic, I expected you to tell us how many passports there are, because it's impossible not to know, or it's impossible for the police to know. By one dynamic, you know best how much a month can be replaced by a passport, that we have some reality projection that by the end of next year two thirds of passports, which is the condition that we get a white Schengen list, can indeed be replaced. If the monthly dynamic of, I don't know, ten thousand, or fifteen thousand, and the number that needs to be replaced is, say, two million, that doesn't make it possible, then let's all see how it's possible for us to help our citizens really, really, these passports to be replaced, because, after all, we're doing all this for them. We're looking for, we're digging into the white world for that white Schengen list because of the citizens, not for us. We who sit here, objectively, have no problem with visas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7405	The LDP parliamentary group has taken advantage of the time available. The People's Messenger Nikola Lazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a bill on travel documents, or a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on travel documents, which is before us today, is of great practical, vital importance, and is necessary for our citizens who travel abroad, as well as for our citizens who live abroad. Otherwise, many of them would have faced the situation of losing their valid travel document at the end of this year without being able to reach a new passport. It is not the citizens themselves who are responsible for this situation, but, as explained by the amendments and additions to the Law, objective difficulties in meeting the technical conditions for the production of new passports. Even with the understanding of this problem, I can only notice that this is done at the last minute, even though it was quite enough time to react much earlier, or in the direction of solving the difficulties themselves, or the extension of the validity of these documents. This late reaction only speaks of the absence of long-term government planning. On the other hand, we remember that the 204 first red passport was used marketingly, when the current Deputy Prime Minister, in May, implemented the action – "New Serbian passports, the new face of Serbia", and another minister said that we would travel very quickly to all the countries of the world without visas. Unfortunately, I fear that today we are very far from each other, although those promises were so grand, one week before the parliamentary elections. After all, passport samples must be sent to all countries 6 months before their use begins, so the question is asked – when were they sent, when was the first passport set divided in May? The responsibility of those in power today is the proportional amount of promises made in the election campaign. So someone who called the presidential elections at a time when time, in fact, did not have to think about citizens and meet the necessary conditions for Serbia's arrival on the white Schengen list, namely visa-free travel to EU countries. Also, someone who made easy promises of visa-free travel first talked about how we would be able to travel without visas to EU countries by the end of 2008, then that it would be by the end of 2009, and now, in general, the question is when it will actually be. This was worth it in terms of getting the votes of young people, especially when it is known that 75% of young people have never had a chance to travel abroad at all, but the question is, how responsible is the policy, and how much is it, in fact, a populist policy? I think that for every praise, the fact that a number of NGOs, in co-operation with foreign embassies, made it possible for a certain number of young people to travel to EU countries and expand their views, to meet other cultures, etc. It is commendable, but, however, it must be the responsibility of the state to systematically allow everyone to travel without visas, not to just talk about it through pre-election promises. Essentially, travel opportunities are even more difficult, as administrative conditions remain unchanged, and, on the other hand, economic potentials have weakened, especially given the fact that the dinar has weakened relative to the euro, etc. The DSS has always stayed away from making unreal promises and always telling citizens the truth, as beautiful or less beautiful as it is. Serbian citizens deserve the truth. Otherwise, I would refer to what Mr Ostojic said and I would only replicate that the DSS has done most to meet the necessary conditions for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list. Bob Dylan, the famous artist, said he thought it was the hero who understood the degree of responsibility that comes with his freedom, and I would say that a good government is the one who understands the degree of responsibility that comes with power. I think, for the sake of truth, someone still owes an apology to the citizens. So, as I said at the outset, the proposed amendment to the Law on travel documents was simply extorted, because otherwise we would come to a situation that our citizens are limited to freedom of movement and after New Year's, they would not be able to travel the business they intended abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7407	National MP Zika Gojkovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7408	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I want to take advantage of the minister's presence at today's session and ask one question, I won't take up much of your time. The question refers to the retegorization of the Bački Breg crossing – Herceg Santo, Sombor municipality. The fact is that the Sombor municipality has already on several occasions requested that information be provided regarding the pretegorization of the crossings, but that we did not receive any response from the MUP. I will remind only that across Somboro is the closest road to the EU, and that is the path used by our people who have been working abroad for many years, that this route across Somboro is shorter than that over Saturday by 100 kilometers, that there is complete documentation completed up to a decade, up to twenty years ago, related to the retegorization of the crossings and that, when we talk about retegorization, it refers to trucks, at least for starters, up to 10 tonnes. I will also say that the municipality of Sombor, for its part, has done everything, as well as the Hungarian side, that Mr Draskovic, as former foreign minister, has done that the Hungarian side has even expressed its desire to participate in the financing of the crossings and some terminals that are necessary for one such retegorisation. What should be noted is that the Sombor municipality covers the largest part of the border of all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, that the whole region, the Western District, and the wider, other than the Apatin municipality, is quite undeveloped, that the economy is in poor shape and that the retegorisation of this transition would certainly lead to the improvement and improvement of all citizens living in the region. I don't think there's a rational reason why there's still no pretegorization done, it's just political reasons why citizens in those municipalities can't use their geostrategic position. In the situation where we are, we believe that border crossings are an opportunity for these municipalities to develop and, at a small door, we hire citizens living in border areas. Here I would just like to mention the further municipality of Choko, the crossing of Vrbica, Serbia-Valkanj in Romania, the border crossing of Ridjica-gara in the municipality of Sombor. Mr. Minister, I don't think your predecessor has had enough hearing to solve this little problem for the MUP, but a problem that opens up a great opportunity and great possibilities for a huge number of people is being talked about several hundred thousand people, who would follow up on these municipalities. I am sure that the lack of involvement of political factors on the ground and the vanity of certain politicians is the cause of the non-resolvement of this problem, but I hope and believe that this will not be the case with you, because in these situations only citizens lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7409	The Messenger of the people is Djordje Milicevic, and after him is the messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7410	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, Mr Dacic, the respected representatives of the MUP, is ahead of us with a proposal to amend the Law on Travel Documents. At the very beginning, I would like to point out what my colleague from the MP's club, during the presentation, said that the SPS-JS Parliament Club would support the proposed amendments to this law, because unless the amendments to the Law on travel documents are adopted by the end of the year, the largest number of citizens could have a problem if they wanted to travel abroad. As for the applicable rules, it should be noted that old, blue passports cease to apply on 31 December 2008 and for this reason the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted a proposal to the Assembly to move the deadline until 31 December 2009. The proposal was submitted to the Assembly for consideration during July. So about every ten Serbian citizens who want to travel, or, more specifically, about 800,000 Serbian citizens who have old passports, marked SRJ, from the first January of next year could have a problem unless the Republic Parliament shows its readiness and adopts the proposed amendments to the said law. The delay in the Government's proposal was explained by objective difficulties in meeting the technical conditions for the creation of new passports, diplomatic passports and official passports, which resulted in a delay in the launch of the issue of new passports and the inability to replace the travel documents so far within the prescribed deadline. This explanation is acceptable to us. Therefore, the proposal is that existing travel documents are valid until next year, in order to complete this process of changing personal documents. The old passports, as has already been said, ceased to be issued on November 1st of this year. The release of new passports began on July 7th. It is good that the technical problems, which existed at the beginning of the production of new passports, were removed. What is very important is that once again it should be noted that when they submit a request for a new passport, the citizens of the old are brought to their attention, but it is not annulled until a new passport is obtained. When they get a new passport, the old travel document cancels out. Our law says the visa cannot last longer than a travel document, but in this case, the validity of the visa in the revoked passport will depend on the state embassy's position to issue the visa. As far as I could understand, the Ministry of the Interior is no longer receiving requests to issue old passports, biometrically betray themselves, I'll remind you, from this summer, which also followed a series of complications, as we could hear from the media. The deadline for issuing new biometric passports has been reduced, in practice, from 30 to 10 days in exceptional situations, and with the reasons set out above, citizens can receive a passport for 48 hours if, with the request, a confirmation or a grounds of urgency is adopted. There are a few questions. First, a question for the interior ministry's representatives. Is it true what could be heard in public, that the monthly capacity of making passports is about 60,000 new travel documents? And what is very important is the answer to the question whether the Ministry of the Interior has provided the required number of blank forms for the issue of new passports, and that you submit for requests in the country and for requests to the competent diplomatic and consular offices abroad? It is true that more modern and far more protected travel documents are one of the conditions for Serbian citizens to travel to EU countries without visas and we, indeed, expect Serbia to have a fully liberalised visa regime next year. In this regard, we welcome the intensive activities of the interior ministry to meet all Serbia's obligations on the road to European integration. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SPS-JS Parliament Club will support this proposal. We are convinced that the Republic Parliament will do everything possible to ensure that citizens can travel uninterruptedly, i.e. that the Assembly will not represent an obstacle in this respect, and we call on the other parliamentary groups to support the draft law amending the Law on travel documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7411	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. After him, the word is received by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us one of the essential laws, the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. It is important because this law is in a set of laws that are necessary in this assembly to enter the system of white Schengen visas, which enables visa liberalisation and entry into EU countries. The current government has long told us about entering the white Schengen list and that we will travel freely, without these procedural things that we currently have in the system of obtaining and passports in front of our state authorities and visas by the EU. Before I go on to explain this bill, I must warn the Minister of the Interior of certain illegal activities of the Ministry of the Interior, and they refer to the documents that are necessary in issuing travel documents. I'll read Article 30. The travel documents Act, which states, with a request for a travel document, shall be placed on the basis of a ID card or other document from which identity can be established, further, the nationality assurance only when the first issuing of the travel document, as provided for in the provisions of this Act, as well as other public documents proving the information contained in the requirements. If we go to the Ministry of the Interior site, then we'll see that the Ministry of Interior has, of course, the necessary documentation, next to the ID card that's being placed on the website, is also asking for assurance about citizenship; it doesn't say – just for the first issue, but without limitations, in fact, in any case. Next, a birth certificate from a birth certificate; it doesn't say it here in the law. Article 30 is so arbitrary, it leaves so much space to the Ministry of the Interior and Organizational Units of the Ministry of Interior that it opens up the possibility of abuse. And in practice, we have a situation, based on this provision and other public documents, that the Ministry, or organisational parts of the Ministry of Interior, are looking for a number of other documents. The formulation of this law, when we discussed the Law on travel documents, was objected to by the SRS, so we asked, given that we have a foothold in other regulations, that the number of documents necessary for issuing a travel document is reduced as much as possible, to free citizens of excess administrative fees and other charges necessary to obtain a document, which is later placed in the file of the case, ends, as a rule, in certain files and never again serves its own use. Citizens are wasting an awful lot of time in the process of getting these documents, so not only is that time money, but also certain administrative fees that are being allocated. It is the state's income, but all of this can be settled through the administrative fee to be paid, or the fee to be paid for issuing a travel document. We can't force the people to go through all kinds of counters, search, extract documents, and eventually get them all, and the law doesn't say that. Only on the basis of this information on personal documents, especially with travel documents, do we have a situation for citizens to, as a rule, lose one day. To turn that into some monetary value, how many states does it lose because a worker leaves his job, goes to various state institutions, to get an individual document that later adds to a passport request? We'll see that it's a huge asset. Let's start with the assumption that this is about five million passports, as issued on eight and a few million Serbs, with some 30-euro cash compensation, as far as the state loses, 150m euros is the lost value of this country because our citizens went and asked for some documents. It's a huge asset. It's the same with ID and all our documents. That is why it is the suggestion of the SRS to make a correction to the law in this area as well. You, or all of us, are being driven by the EU system, which requires an integrated system, the central information system that is necessary, including for this. Let's not look for something we already have in the register. The assurance of citizenship gives us an official in the MUP who's here somewhere along with a clerk who's betraying us and a passport. If we have all the data for the individual in that central register, and we have to have, because if we don't have in the central register, then we have to have a register of all the documents issued and all the data that are relevant for the release of those documents, so we just use the data we already have in the Ministry. Let's help the citizens, because it doesn't cost the state anything, it costs only a little time for an official to enter a program that refers to a particular person, for a person who has turned to the issue of a particular document. In the way you have set up here, especially the formulation – and other documents – it is an arbitrary provision, which is abused by civil servants. It's pathetic, but we're not doing anything to remove it. The SRS has also shown you amendments to try to correct this legal provision. However, unfortunately, nothing, and in practical application we have a wait on the counters, we have a night watch, like in front of the church, or in front of the church, in front of the SUP, or organisational units of the MUP. Here, I'm coming from Novi Sad. In Novi Sad, there were rows formed at about 9 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the evening hours, i.e. at 8:21 p.m., until morning, to get a number and based on that number to exercise certain rights and certain documents issued by the MUP. Here you see, the problem is precisely because of this formulation, because you do not want to correct certain legal projects, because you stubbornly overwrite certain things that have been overcome, that is, the EU regulation is not applicable to us either. Let's adapt this, accept in some cases positive suggestions and amendments to some of the political parties that are actively involved, which are working on it and who want to benefit from the state. Furthermore, here we have received information that, for technical inability, for objective reasons, we have been unable to approach the creation of biometric passports. Look, when we created the law, we had to know everything - the legal and sublegal activities of this country. We had to know what technical preconditions were to come... (Zoran Krasic, a raider from the scene: They had to, not us.) I'm talking about the state in principle, but it's known to apply to the current government. You had to see everything clearly – technical, administrative, legal, sublegal measures, you had to adapt the provisions of the Law. The law is not adjusted and therefore we are now going into correction, however, with enormous damage. This is where the minister told us that 342,000 old passports were issued. So people went to all the trouble, because the state in this case didn't do what it had to do, organize everything, and technically and administratively, to get into the issue of biometric passports. Because we didn't do it, we forced citizens into the process of getting old passports, so we're going to make them again, by 31.12.2009, if this bill passes, to enter the process of obtaining biometric passports. If we now apply that bill that I was talking about, the 150m euros, how much this country costs, not to say that the citizens are costing, because whoever's in the private room is going to take down the diary for that day, we're talking about social, or state damage, because that worker didn't do anything that day to collect the necessary paperwork that he needs to issue passports. Whoever gets the old passport will be forced to re-enter the procedure – and the state loses, and the citizens lose. But what does this government care? The important thing is that we promised. Djelic, not since 2008, but since 2007 in January, we have this here and we will use it to discuss the amendments, said that even by 2007 we will be entering the white Schengen list. In January and February 2008, he said -- here, by the end of the years. Well, we're not even going to be in 2010, and now I'm going to tell you why we're not. To get on the white Schengen list, we need to meet all the conditions. What are the conditions? So far, most of the time, as far as his obligations are concerned, he's done everything except one law, which is, I don't know why they pulled him out, we got him here, the law on money laundering and illegal migration. Why he's retired, no one knows. It is one of the conditions, and surely the EU will not see through until we have finished it. Next, we heard what strategies were not adopted. In addition, it cannot be passed without sublegal acts – rules, regulations, directives, etc. The European Commission, when we inform it that we have finished everything, will send here its commission, which will determine the fulfilment of the conditions. In addition to all these things in the legal and administrative sense, we need to prepare in a technical and technological sense. So we have to have a single system of data processing and data in one place, available to all state authorities that use that data. We must, further, have data related to crime organisers, for all those who commit certain crimes in the area of money laundering, prostitution, drugs, etc. These are technical and technological preconditions to enter the system of the white Schengen list. Unfortunately, we don't think about it. We have satisfied only one assumption, that we legally adapt everything that is necessary, and later we will carry out all these other assumptions. There's no such thing. The Commission established by Europe comes here and determines all the facts and data on the European Commission's orders. That's when the whole procedure lasts, as a rule, between three and four months. The next year is an election year for the European Parliament and, most likely, of these jobs – nothing. So we can expect it, the coming of this commission, only at the end of 2009, possibly in 2010. If we pass through, if they give a positive opinion, then we are facing proceedings before the European Commission and the Council of Ministers, which legally lasts from six to eight months. The condition is, then, that the positive assessment of everything that we have in the legal, administrative and technical and technological senses have been required to do. If we haven't done that, there's no way through. The year 2010 is the year in which the question is whether we can get on the white Schengen list. Until then, we're waiting outside the embassy, night waiting, torture, cold, heat, etc. This government thus shows its incompetence, indifference, irresponsibility, but also fear. Why fear? Every normal state takes care of its own citizen. All that is happening in front of the embassies and the troubles our citizens have, it can only be with the Serbs. No one else does that, or citizens in all other countries, who are in a position to get visas, in far more humane conditions await these visas than the citizens of Serbia – it is the responsibility of the authorities. You must speak plainly – our citizens cannot be discriminated against in the way you discriminate in front of your embassies. No one has the courage to go to European officials and tell them what I just said. So I'm saying, we didn't do anything about the preconditions for getting a white Schengen visa. All those lies given by individual officials of the current government were fog, and the fog is clear, that the white Schengen list will be nothing. That is why I am warning the current government, take it seriously and take care of the citizens of Serbia, you have never done so before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7413	The word has been made by MP Slobodan Maras, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7414	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I have reported in accordance with Rules of Procedure, Rule 225(1) and Article 226. I come from Novi Sad, like you, Madam Vice President, and you are certainly familiar with the situation that citizens have received a gas bill with an increase of 60%. I must remind you that the resolute minister, Mr Skundric, has made a statement that the government has made a decision that the citizens will pay 62% of the gas bill immediately, and 37.5% of that account after six months, i.e. that the bill will be paid in November, while in May they will pay 37.5% and that in October they will pay 62.5% of the bill for October. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I'm speaking to you for the next reason. You are the Deputy Prime Minister, and the same thing your party colleague, Energy Minister, promised Prime Minister Cvetkovic, that citizens would pay twice, once – 62.5%, and in six months – 37.5%. I will quote what Mr. Cvetkovic said – from the consumer's point of view, they will not have increased bills during the winter period, so they will not be threatened. Also, Mr Dacic, I know that UBPOK was also in the "Serbia" and the Ministry of Energy, and I know that Minister Skundric has promised to report to the Committee on Industry and People's MPs on the results of this investigation, but I also know that citizens in Novi Sad have received a gas bill increased by 60% for October. Someone lied here. We listened here during the afternoon, that there were those who gave false information and false promises, but I also ask you -- who lied to the citizens that the bill increased by 60% due to the gas collection would pay twice, now and after six months? Please, in your capacity, as minister of police, investigate this as well. The citizens are deceived. This is a terrible big punch for citizens' pockets. I believe something like that happened throughout Serbia. The justification given to citizens by people who are in charge of charging gas, which is a company in Novi Sad called "New Sad - Gas", is that "Serbigas" does not respect the government's decision, that "Srbigas" has provided them with bills that have been increased by 60% and they simply have to charge from citizens. Please use your authority and location to investigate this. For who knows which time, the citizens are deceived and this is a severe blow to their account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7415	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7416	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, when you came here today, you thought it was probably a wonderful day, because the proposed amendments to the law contain only one provision of technical nature, which says the period of validity of the old passports and the release of new passports is extended by the end of next year, which is natural, because there is no way to issue new, biometric passports by the end of this year. It's interesting next. We adopted the Law on travel documents on 24 September this year and, when the law was passed, it could also be known that new travel documents cannot be issued by the end of the year to all those who are interested. And, not only that, but in the light of this bill, as an obstruction for the issue of passports, as something that prevents the issuance of new passports, some technical preconditions that have not been reached, etc., so to clarify this, I will say, very simply – the National Bank of Serbia, or the Bank of Serbia, or the Office for the Making of Wallets, is the only authorised organisation that can print new passports. These technical problems in the making of new passports did not arise a week ago, or two weeks ago, problems with this relationship were known at the beginning of this year. So it's not a good day for you today, not because you're personally guilty of the whole situation we're in, that, of course, you're not, but because politically you have to share responsibility with those who are, and you're happy to agree to that, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. That is why it is not easy for you today, because when we point to Bozidar Djelic, who lied to the citizens of Serbia, for everything that has to do with European integration, Serbian citizens have lied, when it comes to the white Schengen list, there has also been a disgusting lie, you have, fully consciously and happily, shared political responsibility, sitting at the post of vice president, even, being above him, because you are the deputy prime minister. I'm not saying he has personal responsibilities, subjective responsibilities in this, but he has objective responsibilities. That's why you're having this discussion today that you're listening to and you can't avoid it. So today's not a good day for you. When it comes to political lies in pre-election campaigns, or when it comes to generalising things, about pre-election promises that are not easily fulfilled, it has always been, since parliamentary democracy and since political elections, but from these unfulfilled promises, they differ from those that are consciously given with the knowledge that they are not being fulfilled, that they cannot be fulfilled at all. One of these promises was this for the white Schengen list, because it is obvious that it cannot be done, technically it cannot be done, because of the problems that exist within the state, within the system, which cannot produce the product in the way it is stipulated by law, and objectively it is impossible to get white Schengen, because it is also a coin in the process when it comes to political conditions for Serbia and when it comes to joining the EU. Namely, there are countries, such as Norway and Switzerland, which do not express any desire to be EU members, have never passed the EU accession process, and have no problem with white Schengen. We have, in fact, brought a few things together into the same process, hoping for great success overnight, which was promised before this election, and it has become clear that there is nothing of this success, because there are certain conditions that cannot be realised, because they are not really the right ones, let's say, when it comes to conditioning with The Hague tribunal; someone thinks it has something to do with it, and I don't think it has anything to do with it. As long as, in reality, the remaining war crimes indictees are not found physically, specifically, the one in need of The Hague and the EU, it is Ratko Mladic, so far there is nothing of accession, there is nothing of candidacy, there is nothing of white Schengen. This finding of Ratko Mladic, as meeting the conditions for Eurointegration, is not only a goal, but also serves as a monet for the promotion when it comes to meeting the crucial conditions, which is recognition of Kosovo's independence. That's the game you got yourself involved in. You have come to the situation, Mr Dacic, to participate in the government's work at the level of deputy prime minister, the government in which the largest political party of the government, the DS, during the pre-election campaign is lying to Serbian citizens about what will happen in the coming period and thus gain their votes. It's their job. Tell me, please, which of the ruling coalition's pre-election promises has been fulfilled since the moment this government was created, to this day? Some six points, the prime minister quoted us here, none of them were fulfilled, and each of them could be said or not to be fulfilled, or that it would be filled with such a delay that it had nothing to do with the pre-election promise, the pace you promised the citizens of Serbia, doesn't matter. On the contrary, you are not only lying to the citizens of Serbia, but you are also doing amazing things, without any explanation. Just take into account the increase in the price of utility services, take into account only the increase in PTT services, with an amazing explanation that they should be increased because there is competitiveness on the PTT market. There is only one monopoly organisation currently doing so with fixed telephony in Serbia. What kind of competitiveness are we talking about? It's the ambience, it's the miles that work here, it's the miles in which it looks. Bozidar Djelic, first, promises white Schengen by the end of the year, then 2009, and now it is clear that it will not be in 2010. There's no way that's gonna happen. This is known in advance, and when you know in advance that you can't do something, and you talk about it to Serbian citizens, it's a disgusting lie, as well as what your partners, the United Pensions Party, these former directors, whose President Krkobic, are promising citizens, or Serbian pensioners, to raise pensions to a level of 70% of wages. You're promising a periodic increase, and it's linearly by 10%, which I guess it should suit them; when you increase linearly to 5,000, from 10%, you get 500 dinars, and at 100,000 you get 10,000 dinars. It is clear to whom this type of increase favors. It's a pre-election promise that can't even be fulfilled because it's physically impossible. You're made of lies, from the very beginning to the end, but we don't care about you, we don't care about you, we don't care about the citizens of Serbia, because, because, because of your non-existent, not irresponsible, but the non-existent and economic and social policies, they suffer because you have only one policy – that through lies and installation, they will come to the level of power, to make up this monster from the ruling coalition, to betray what is sacred to this country, and that's the territorial integrity of the country, and when it's all over, the rest doesn't matter, I guess somebody else will gold out, I just don't know who. This people obviously won't, because the power of the golden people can't possibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7417	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7418	On the basis of Art. In 225 and 226, I would like to inform the Assembly and all MPs that today the International Court in The Hague has declared itself responsible for Croatia's lawsuit, first, against the SRJ, then the states of Serbia-Montenegro, and then Serbia, which Croatia has filed for the genocide. This is the crown and finale of your policy you've been implementing since 2000. I just remind you for a moment, which have, more or less, transferred all the world television stations, the arrival of Boris Tadic to the birthplace of Nikola Tesla, in Smiljana, where he apologized to Mesic for alleged crimes committed by Serbia. The exemplar of crimes against Serbs by Croats, a place that, at the time of Nikola Tesla's birth, had about 600,000 residents, among other things, his father was a Orthodox priest there, and long ago there was no single Serb. There is scientific evidence for the repression of Serbs in Croatia, which has been carried out continuously for centuries. Instead of doing everything we can to protect our people, we use irresponsible moves, practically, to absorb criminals. Instead of having Serbia press charges, among other things, you heard Dr Nikola Žutic, who cited the tax crimes that Croatia committed against Serbian and other peoples, our country is silent and coming into the position it came into. I remind you of the 1995 images, the action "Blash" and "Storm", where over 750,000 Serbs were expelled from their centuries-old hearths. I remind you of UN Resolution 1992, where it was found that more than 250,000 Serbs were expelled from Croatian cities from 1991 to 1992. Look out, it's not from the Serbian Republic, and Serbia is silent. Serbia apologizes to criminals and criminals hold a lecture and sue Serbia. It's the price of your policy and everything you've been doing for the last eight years. We will come to a situation where, because of interest, because America and the EU are against Serbia, they may pass a verdict that will find Serbia guilty, but believe and be assured that, if that happens, you have cooked the verdict, not Stipe Mesic and the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7419	Has anyone else come forward with the word for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request an explanation under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure on the same subject Mr Todorovic spoke about. Namely, I'm looking for an explanation, why did the state of Serbia not press charges against Croatia for crimes committed from 1991 to 1995, a team that has more elements to press charges than Croatia had the elements to file its suit? I'll remind you of only three key elements. First, during World War II, Croatia committed a serious mass crime, genocide against the Serb people in Croatia, Serbia and BiH. In a monstrous way, over a million members of the Serb people were killed. In the Jasenovac camp alone, 700,000 people were killed, of which over 50,000 children. In the coming days, I will submit a list of 22,000 Serbian children's names to the authorities of the Serbian government and authorities, with all the data that were killed in Jasenovac. The other element is the crimes that took place in 1991. That year, by attacking the JNA barracks, by attacking Plitvice, Borovo Selo and other Serb settlements, Croatia caused war and committed a crime against peace. According to international law, the crime against peace is the most serious crime possible, much more severe than the crimes of genocide. In that war from 1991 to 1995, I recall, Croatia killed about 7,000 people of Serbian nationality on Croatia's territory, and on BiH territory -- over 4,000 people of Serbian nationality. She committed serious crimes, some of which, especially those committed at the time of the Flash and Storm, have elements of genocide. I will not claim here that the crimes committed in Croatia, neither on the Serbian side nor on the Croatian side, are purely genocide by definition, according to international law. I don't think any of the other crimes committed against Serbs or Croats are in the right sense the words genocide, but if they're talking about what crimes are more serious, which have more elements of genocide, then in any case, the crimes the Croats committed against the Serb people. Let me get this straight. For her lawsuit against Serbia, Croatia had only one card, war crimes, there were war crimes committed by Serbs over the Croatian people in Croatia, and Serbia had three bids. The first asset is war crimes committed in the last war, which, as I said, are more serious than Serb crimes against Croats. The second asset, I'm sorry to use that termology, it may be a little inappropriate, it's a crime of genocide committed from 1941 to 1945 and which no one in the international community is challenging. The third one is a crime against peace that Croatia committed in 1991. Nevertheless, Croatia has filed a lawsuit against Serbia, and Serbia has not filed an action against Croatia. The question arises – why? There is only one answer -- that one bad message is being sent to the international community, the world public, that Serbia particularly admits that Serbian guilt for the crimes that took place in the last war is greater than Croatian guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7421	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7422	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we are facing a very important decision by the International Court of Justice, and it is extremely serious that this government must realise that there is no joke, because the Croats, preparing a suit for genocide, which the Serbs allegedly committed in Croatia, the Serb forces, or the JNA forces in Croatia to the Croatian people, have documented everything. We took all this unrelentingly, expecting that the International Court of Justice, as it did in the case of an SRJ lawsuit against ten NATO states forces that bombed our country, would be declared incompetent and we would enter a certain stalemate position. However, the stalemate we have been counting on is also very unfavourable for Serbian national interests. Why? If the Court finds itself incompetent and Croatia has sued us for genocide, the fact remains genocide, with all the documentation and arguments given by the Croatian side. We are silent, or we are not silent, we are making, in a diplomatic sense, catastrophic mistakes. Our representatives go to international institutions and present certain facts that say that we committed genocide, that they committed crimes, but they were individual, and that's what individuals did. None of our representatives, in the last seven, eight, ten years, have come out and said it was done, that, etc., to sum up all the crimes that have occurred since the 1990s, until today. Crimes are happening today. Today it is ethnic cleansing and today it is genocide against the Serb people. And that the Court has declared incompetent, the fact remains that international law states that Croatia has sued Serbia and the Serb people for genocide and ethnic cleansing over the Croatian people. Now he's declared himself competent. This government is silent again. The representatives who defended us and were supposed to defend us before this court, say they're going to write a countersuit. What kind of countersuit? We heard from Dr. Žutić about what they did before World War I. Genocide and ethnic cleansing, the most serious crimes they did to us in the First World War and in the space of today's Serbia, did to us during World War II in all the places where there were Serbs, have now been done to us in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. A number of crimes, ethnic cleansing and genocide, and yet this government is silent. You bear responsibility for all this and history will show that this government, which has done nothing to show the world everything that has happened to the Serbian people, will have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7423	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a normal citizen, I was touched by this news and this information about Croatia's lawsuit against the Serb people, against the state of Serbia, so I would like to point out one fact that there have been terrible crimes in the KIM area, which have never been discovered today. Our country is silent. I expect, in the future, that Tadic will go to Pristina and apologize to the Shiptars. This means that the Cypriots can press charges against the Serb people for crimes tomorrow, that it is our fault that there are no Serbs in Pristina today, which is that there are no Serbs in Peća, which there are no Serbs in Djakovica, which is that there are no Serbs in the Decans. There are other spaces, the environments in which Serbs have lived as in the ghetto for nine years, with the exception of Serbs in the northern part of KIM, who have little more freedom. It is not easy to live in Orahovac, Hotchi, Gorazdevci, Osojana, Kosa, Ranilug, Ropotova, where daily threatens to lose your head, where communications are minimal, where you go with the risk of being alive or not being alive. Let me remind you, the first kidnapping took place on a spear in Belačevac, when they kidnapped five Serbs. Until today, none of these Serbs' fates are known. One was called Buha, the other was called Trifunovic, the third was called Lepic, I apologize to these two for forgetting their last name. There's no such thing as fate. There's something worse than death, and it's kidnapping. It's the only thing worse than death, when the family doesn't know where her child, her son, her father, her mother, her brother. He can't exercise any rights. He can't bury him, and he's hoping to be alive. We're getting all kinds of information that all of our people have been transferred to Albania. We have the data, and our secret state service had this data and didn't want any information to be published, but we were waiting for Carla del Ponte to publish that information, that our Serbs who were kidnapped from the territory of KIM, who were transferred to Albania, removed organs and sold to the white world, in England, America and Arab countries. Those who have money can pay for Shiptar, a doctor, a captured Serb to take out a kidney, take out a liver, take out a heart, transfer it and install it there, so that he can live. No one's information, nothing's said, it's covered up, and then, when it's past a while, our passivity, of course, our opposing camp welcomes it by starting a lawsuit. Don't be surprised if in a few years we get a lawsuit from the Cypriots from KIM that we committed a crime and that it's our fault that in Kosovo, I repeat, there are no Serbs in Gjilan, Pristina, Djakovici, Peci, Prizren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7425	The word comes from MP Dragan Stevanovic, after him, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7426	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I will refer to one aspect of this law, namely the basic law and the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Law, which have not been mentioned from this speaker in today's debate. I'll finish my presentation with a question, Mr. Minister, and I'd like you to give me an answer to this question if you have a final word today. It is, first of all, because of the MPs of the SRS, then also because of citizens whose name I ask the question through my presentation. In fact, from my angle and these people's angle, it's seriously questionable character, it's defined that the law has a discriminatory character. What makes me think that? It seems to me that the legislator did not foresee responsibility and understanding for people who, in accordance with their religious beliefs and feelings, do not want to accept, do not want to have biometric passports. If you look back at the Constitution, it seems to me that for these people the Constitution provides and guarantees certain rights and freedoms, you can find that in Articles 19, 20, 21, it doesn't matter. If you want to see them, you will find them and you will recognize them. I think the state, by defining a new ID card, had that in mind and predicted an alternative. For people who, in accordance with their beliefs, did not want to have a ID card with a chip, an alternative was given. In this case, of course, it isn't. I think this is why you deserve criticism, as a state and as a government, given that this country had much more understanding for a significant minority who, for their religious beliefs and definitions, for example, did not want to carry a rifle in the military, and they certainly had a right to do so. Today Orthodox believers have no alternative to biometric passports. I understand that the interest, priority, the desire of this government and the ruling majority of the way into the EU, but you must, Mr Minister, accept one fact: wherever you wish the state to take, whether to the east or to the west, you must call this book. In accordance with that book, I think you have a duty to respect and respect certain rights in the dominant, religious sense, works of this people. Isn't that right, that road in the EU has turned into a dead end, or into a blind road, on which Serbia has been on for the eighth year. If so, it gives me the right and this report by the European Commission, or the Government's summary, in which, although you have regretted and tried to conceal a lot of what was put there, you have failed to remove the fact that, even in the court of the European Commission, the situation in respect of human and minority rights is not at an envious level, or is not as expected from the Government. In that sense and in this context, Mr Dacic, I ask you to answer the question, today or when you want, you can take stenographic notes – will the citizens of Orthodox religion be able to choose not to accept biometric passports and will the Constitution guarantee their rights and freedoms for such a thing be respected, when and how?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7427	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's the last on the list of registered speakers for discussion in the principled search. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 26, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7428	I will have to speak much more to the public of the Republic of Serbia today, because I do not believe that any connection to this topic has to do with Mr Dacic, given that the problem is inherited. That doesn't mean he doesn't have to solve it. You can solve this problem, but you have to arrest the government. Then there's a bit of a bigger problem. You don't have to arrest someone for lying, but, you know, when someone's lying, they're being set up to suspect and steal, and whoever steals, goes to jail, and whoever goes to jail, they've got fleas, and you don't hang out with those who can have fleas in perspective. I have to make this joke so I can distract the viewers of this subject. Of course, when democracy hit us on October 5th, she clapped at us by showing up a big flame, and from the Danube there was this smelt, that mud, and so it came out all sorts of things. Here, for 10 years they celebrated the Resistance a few days ago. Then we came into a situation of our own to replace thesis. "He yells at the wolf and takes the fox away. "The attack is the best defense. The system – how to do what is worse, to make someone better. In the system "the worse, the better", we find out that Djelic, who had no dog to bite, became co-owner of a bank. He's probably tearing himself up like a person right now. How does he work in the government and how to protect his wealth in a bank, given the financial crisis, which is being presented here as "Simplon Express", as if through Croatia she came here, for five or six days she'll stay here, and then she goes to Greece?- I'm sorry. We still haven't received an answer today to the question of what the major financial crisis in Serbia means. What is the view of this global financial crisis? We've heard about America, it's tied to the immovableity. We heard, finally, at the end of the term, and this Bush started thinking normally and said it wasn't just the traffic of immovableity and fictitious lending of immovableity. You see, there was no such thing in Europe, so there's a big financial crisis again. In that general crisis, I must remind you that passports have become a very interesting subject of manipulation. She was so prone to manipulation with us, that we had one kind of idiot, in a political sense of the word. An idiot is a word that has political meaning, and it's a man who thinks about how to eat, how to get drunk and how to dress. He has no perspective, no perception, something called society, morals, a system of values. One such idiot has taught us for years that patriotism is for him when you have a passport and you can travel abroad. By all definitions, patriotism is that you love the state of your fathers. So, in the definition of patriotism, love for the state of your fathers has been neglected, and then it's no wonder what my predecessors have been talking about these lawsuits and this kind of replacement thesis, where the victim becomes a criminal, and the criminal allegedly becomes a victim. So, in that kind of substitute thesis, we had a large population before 2000, a large number of young people, who, of the government, who struggled to survive within certain borders, constantly asked to be on some lists, to travel, to go to wash in cafes courts, as graduate engineers, so now, and eight years later, the shame to return, because as graduate engineers did nothing abroad, did not move beyond the bar. In this kind of replacement thesis, patriotism has been reduced to possessing a similar passport for travel abroad. When these "NATO media" in our country get to it, that's the name that's being created. I remember one presidential election, when Boris Tadic came to share in pain with young people waiting in front of the Italian embassy, so he told them – just vote for me to be president and it won't be anymore, we go straight to the white Schengen list. Here's his second term. There's nothing on that white Schengen visa. We had this asshole here who said, "Let's go, let's do something, let's go." It ended on Friday, he went to Brussels on Monday and got a slap. To heal himself from that slap, instead of bending his tail and running into a hole, he came and said, "What difference does it make, we will unilaterally apply this agreement," which means that there is no customs, that everything will enter from abroad, our production will not exist, there will be no customs protection. One mistake, another mistake. For what? Because of the crazy definition of patriotism reduced to a passport, whose cover and day-to-day it says "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". Let everyone look at their passport at home, and they'll see it says "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia." Mr. Dacic's affinity to that name and he's glad it's still going to work for another year, so maybe a little bit more, I appreciate it. SFRJ's gone. Your passports have been replaced. What should I do to you, Dacic, you're a little late. Let's move on. What's the problem now? I'm asking the viewers not to laugh. Now, the problem is that as of November 1st, you don't issue on old passport forms, and in order to get a new passport, you should, as the Buha said, take the battle kit in two days. The battle kit means you take bread, milk, yogurt and, necessarily, a hockey. However, we have another problem. Now, when we issue passports, we have this aesthetic-emotional problem. It's really depressing for some ladies to leave and ask for a new passport, because they have to be photographed there, they can't pick their photos from the youth days, so they'll be beautiful again, so they need that old passport, with that beauty out of the way a few years ago, still stands. That's one of the reasons he's running this coalition. With these things, Dacic has nothing to do with it. Please don't get me wrong. The next question that opens up, I would not like to repeat this data Mr. Dacic made, what was July 7th, what was November 1st, how many passports, how much it requires, whether Jelasic is lying, whether Djelic is lying. As far as I'm concerned, you can make them both go to jail. You both go to jail and you won't do anything wrong; you won't make a mistake, and if their trial starts in 10 years. There won't be any mistake. What damage they've done to this country, it's irreparable. That's irreparable. We need to distract Mr. Dacic. Mr. Dacic, I don't know if you noticed, several years ago, modern border and customs crossings were made on the other side of the Drina River. Now it's an action to be made on this side of us, allegedly, Drine. Drina is a river that flows through the center of a nation. A few days ago, B92 released a recording of customs and border crossings being destroyed between Austria and Slovenia. Don't you get the impression at the time of the greatest euphoria to go to Europe as soon as possible, so if we have to drown in the Atlantic, there's a limit here, and there's nothing on the border?- I'm sorry. It is borderline, they say, in the territory of the Western Balkans. Remember this - west; we have Presevo Valley, Western Balkans, all new terms and new terms. What terms? To trick voters. They've always cheated on you. Especially when it takes DS into its own hands, it takes catastrophic dimensions. Let me remind you, in 2000, we had an SRJ, and then, after a few years, we had a state union, and then we finally got, apparently, an independent Serbia, and now we get a taste of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija, and we immediately opened the subject of Vojvodina. They don't sleep, they do. Those destructions that prevailed in them, they were paid for destruction. They're not paid for something good. They're installed for destruction. One of the messengers only opened the topic – how much money revolves around the replacement of passports. He just opened the topic. I hope in a few months we get an answer to the question of what that amount is and who's got all the mustache on that amount. One more thing, you need to know, because, watch out, in 2007, when the law was passed, it is said, this is a condition for the EU. When this law was to be applied, April, it was said – here, we go to a white Schengen visa, we go, we travel, the whole world is ours. We heard them slaughter in July. Who? The ones they promised. We're changing the law today. We're just changing good European laws. We always have some new, good, European, pro-reform law here. After a year, we are changing this good European law and introducing some provisions to make it even better. How much better? Well, better yet, don't take the donkey to green grass. That's what Serbian citizens should listen to. A psychosis is now created: 'Is it possible that you opposition won't vote to amend this law? These amendments to the law are in favour of the citizens'. No, let's see, and then I'll tell them what they agreed; they don't know what they agreed, I'll tell them later, no problem. No, this is the SPS Executive Board, let it go. All right, the gas's cheap, all right. See, I know what to do. Let's take it in a row. So we have a situation like that. They were good when they passed the Law, they'd be good, and now they're asking to change the law. It wasn't a good opposition that said, hey, don't do it, there's nothing to it, in a year you'll be doing it again, there won't be a good opposition now. Why? They won't vote for this law. Why? There is no law that forces the opposition to vote for government proposals. It's perfectly normal for us to argue with you. We're too human. We'll tell you in advance what's wrong and the cat will come back on the "return" and everything will be that way. And that's how it all works. For the sake of the public, I have to say, it's not a better situation with diplomatic passports either. I remember, in the Council of Europe, poor Alexander Popovic, with a diplomatic passport, they searched him there at customs, a poor man, then had to iron himself somehow, to be at the reception. They don't admit it. They don't recognize this space, they don't recognize us. They look down on us. The more you run towards them, the more you try to reduce the amount of clothing you wear and calculate that you show greater loyalty to them, the more you sin. You're making an extraordinary mistake. You can't influence them to change the picture of us. They have a picture. To your pride, to your dignity, you don't care at all. Why do we have a new system of seven protections when making passports? Because it's thought that all criminals are here and it needs absolute protection, so nothing happens. Now let me remind you, a few months ago, maybe a year ago, there was also something about this, I think the reading was on the agenda, that's when I told you, from this pay phone – all of this is done, for what? And those reliefs that are given, etc., are the reliefs that exist today, they are not even easier, but normal regimes, given that only people with money can travel abroad from Serbia. They don't want those Serbs without money abroad. He was predicted by the other stream, a violent return, with shortness of residence. No, they need consumers, that when it comes from Serbia to Western Europe, it has either a guarantee letter, or a current account, or a foreign exchange account, or a card, 1000 euros, it doesn't matter, the guarantee that it will come back and guarantee that it will spend so much there for the seven-eight, or 15 days. They're market-thinking, they're thinking about their economy, they're thinking about making money at every turn. We have a Schengen visa to make science, bogey and true proof of patriotism. Unfortunately, the evidence of patriotism is an idiot who came up with it. Why? To destroy the tissue of this country, to destroy the existing system of values and introduce something that is not a system of values, undefined. Everything has to depend on them. What else is interesting? It's interesting that today we didn't get an answer to the question of whether anyone in this country can trust the DS. Let's do a little retrospective. Let's make a list when all the DS have fooled us, all the citizens. They can't cheat on me, because I know a lot of them, I know a lot of them, I've been watching them for a long time, I've recorded every move. My computer's full of data, pre-clipping, and everything the DS's been doing. I can tell you for days what they've been putting at the heart of their politics. They don't have politics. Their policy is based on being in power and pulling. If it fits into something with the people, it fits only for promotional purposes, to preserve that power. Just to remind you, we've been importing labour since 2005, so the DS told us. Let me remind, especially, those in Boro, that they need peanuts to grow and deal with the wood-processing industry, there's nothing from the mine; that's what the Democratic Party said. This is just for a reminder, that the viewers are telling their children and all other potential voters not to vote for the DS for a living head, because they've been cheated at the beginning. It's known they've been deceived, it's just a question of how much you're going to believe in this illusion that they're spreading. So today we are faced with this problem that the government has asked for the law, received the law, passed a year and asked to change the best European law. Why? How long do we have to put up with someone's incompetence? Why are you not acting according to European law, which was adopted on 7 October last year? What's the reason? Just to warn the viewers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If it starts snowing in a few days, the opposition to that phenomenon has nothing to do with it. The opposition with the future snow has nothing to do with it, and they'll go straight through the media. I would very much like to instruct representatives and senior DS officials to go across this bridge across the Sava, what they've done in eight years, through Sava, through Ade gypsies, etc., to walk across that bridge, because it's simply amazing, that art of theirs. They make citizens believe there's something that doesn't exist. Then why don't they go there when they're sure it exists? Why aren't they going? Lies and fraud. In the end, one question arises, are the persons for whom these warrants have been called, now to use this "red warrant", our citizens? Yesterday was a delegation from KIM, representatives of the missing and killed by KIM, missing citizens, ordinary people. They've been rolling for nine years. There's no door where they haven't been. They're only looking for the truth, nothing else. They can't hear that truth. You know what? I completely understand them, they burn, they hurt. They hurt and burn when they see Tadic and Thaci at the same conference. You DS guys can take a look here later, so you can figure out who your president is, whether this top one, or this bottom one. There's no difference in politics. And this one and this one run the same policy, but you define yourself, one is a little bit white, the other is a little black, according to aesthetic criteria; as far as these two are concerned, there's no difference. Who took those warrants off, and why? In the end, I would say, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they would no longer call me after they called me on Friday and said, "I lie, I lie, I lie, then they come out for a pay phone and they confirm everything I said." I don't want to speak in code. I have an object here. It's veterans. A group of veterans have earned the right to some monetary income. Another group of veterans, and the same conditions, exactly the same, didn't come true. To make things even weirder, both in the first situation and in the second situation, he solved the same court and the same judges. I'm not going to mention names, I'm going to leave Mr. Novakovic, let him interpret it as my contribution to determining the truth, so let him see if any of the authorities can answer. This is the second set of questions. There's something here that I downloaded from the National Assembly site this morning. This is a list of political parties. There's something here that someone's trying to do, Mr. Dacic, to ramble. However, it does so well that it is likely that 250 will have to pay the court costs. The lawyers of the SRS will be beaten as no one, nor guilty, for one answer and one submission, in addition to the answer. I'll put that on, Mr. Novakovic, to find me here this one party made by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, neither guilty nor debtor. Of course, I'm going to leave this for you to multiply, so that the DS can make a statement that she loves more than these, because I don't see any difference between them. In the end, since it's about time, I have to distract you. Could we, in general, be discussing such laws, which essentially constitute unseriousness and crown proof that those who have promised something in gruesomely, have achieved a great material advantage on the basis of these mass frauds, by the very fact that they are sitting in an unnaturally larger number than is necessary, or normally, and have even formed a government, and are then able to carry out such incriminations. Remember, I don't call DS MPs, so you don't find yourself offended, but there are indications that your mayor, with some other people, because of some locations very attractive for hotels, Mr Dacic, real coups, kidnap, even, members of election committees. I know you know this well, because when that kid's late, and he doesn't use drugs, and he sells the location, and he's not in a position to sell the location, then I'm not surprised if someone's after him. But he needs to be chased, and the whole country doesn't have to shake. Don't protect criminals. Of course, they will vote this law, and they should do it for citizens, who are neither guilty nor in debt, but are victims of Boris Tadic's policy, and I am honoring you for 15 seconds, feel free to go to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7429	You had three minutes left. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Does Minister Dacic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7430	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to give you some information based on the debate that was heard here. First, I want to answer the question that the Defence and Security Committee has asked me. The warrants issued by our judicial authorities against persons charged with acts of terrorism are still in force, and a central warrant and an international warrant against Haradinaj, Ceku and Thaci. They're also international arrest warrants, but, as you say yourself, obviously, they're not being treated. I would like to say about this bill, which you had before you, that the MUP sent it to the assembly procedure, that is, the government's procedure, literally, in July, right after the election of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because it was immediately clear that it was impossible to fulfill what was written in the Law, which is to replace the old passports with new passports by the end of the year. I'd like to draw attention and openly say there's not much philosophy here. Responsibilities, indeed, lie in the state. We passed the law last year. We defined the deadlines, which turned out to be not real, were delayed in preparation and technology and everything that was said and, instead of starting in April, started on July 7th. It was not possible to change all passports by the end of the year, so our logical proposal was, so that citizens would not be in an awkward situation, that by the end of the year the passport expires, to extend the validity until the end of next year. When we talk about responsibility, responsibility, now I can say, it's on those who were before me. Those who were in one or another party in that government may say that responsibility is on one or the other. The responsibility lies with all those who exercise power at a certain point. The law was passed last year. If all the legal solutions and procedures that were made at the time were the best, we should talk about it. I absolutely agree with what Mr. Buha said, that we should continue to work on simplifying procedures. I want to inform the citizens of Serbia that the MUP will do everything possible to get to that stage that citizens do not have to come personally, but we will open a portal, where we would receive all these requirements in such a way. Of course, that means what we've already done, and that's that when a citizen comes, he can at the same time, at the same time, at the same cost, end the issue, or apply for new documents, both for the ID and passport. I just want to remind you that there would be no dilemma if three million and 900 thousand passports had been issued over the past nine years, but that doesn't mean that three million and 900 thousand people have passports. The passport has more than 10% of the population. So there are about a million people in Serbia's passport, or SRJ. In that sense, 300 to 550,000 passports are issued annually. That's why we left this deadline. We receive 12,000 requests for the issue of new passports per week, we are trained to issue 60,000 passports per month, new passports at this time. In any case, we think that by the end of next year, Serbian citizens will be able to have enough opportunities to change their personal documents. I'd like to remind you that I.D. doesn't have to change yet. Their importance expires only in 2011. Of course, it expires when he runs out of time on his I.D., unless they have permanent ID cards. In any case, I would also like to remind myself that in the past few years, there has been a lot of investment in technology and that is what Mr. Todorovic is right about. So, since 2001, more contracts concerning personal documents, equipment, acquisition and personalization have been invested and opened. So it's about ID cards, passports, driver's licenses, traffic licenses. So, not counting the costs that ZIN will have based on passport making, so far, 98m euros, in the past eight years, have been spent for these purposes. The ZIN contract for passport making is about 29m euros. I must also say to everyone here, openly and honestly, the 2,000 dinars that citizens pay for passports don't go to the MUP, everything goes to the Bureau for making bills, for making passports, so that when a citizen comes, he pays 2,000 dinars and 170 dinars for the republican tax, which also goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So since making new passports, the MUP doesn't have a single dinar of income. I think it's completely, if you're asking me, illogically, because the Bank of Serbia, or the National Bank of Serbia, too, is not doing what they've been given the power to do by law, they're also investigating the tender and giving jobs to others. I don't see why anyone would do this on behalf of an authorized state body like the M.O.P. But it was defined by the law that was passed last year. Furthermore, I think it is of interest for us to abolish visas towards everyone, that our citizens have white lists, so to speak, with all the countries in the world. We are interested in abolishing Schengen visas, but we are also interested in abolishing visas with Russia, with the Russian Federation. That will be our policy in the next period. It's not just the job of the MUP, it's the job and the foreign ministry, but we will also try to make sure that in talks with the Russian Federation, because of the friendly relations we have, we also come to the end of visas for Serbian citizens when they travel to the Russian Federation. Of course – white Schengen is a condition for talks with European countries and other countries, possibly, on visa liberalisation. When it comes to passports for Albanians, we consider Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia and we issue passports to them. As you have seen, of these 100,000 passports issued, a portion of the passport has already been issued in the territory where the area seats of the MUP are and, in particular, in diplomatic and consular offices, where old passports continue to be issued. I must say, the issue of passports has begun in Vienna, too, so the release of new passports. In the end, you asked a few questions here. I want to tell you about the pretegorization of the Somboro crossing, and there were more questions about border crossings. Border crossings, the opening of new border crossings is not an exclusive jurisdiction of the MUP. There is a joint commission on border crossings, including foreign ministry representatives, there is the Ministry of Finance, Infrastructure, etc. We made this proposal that you specifically asked me about Sombor, which you put in the procedure. It is said that this transition needs, by pretegorization, to move to an international transition. Independently, we will try to have non-border traffic contracts with Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, so that people living in the area can go without visas, or perhaps even without passports, when it comes to citizens of Bulgaria, for example, etc. That is what I discussed with the Minister of Interior of Hungary, who also, as someone here mentioned Draskovic's last name, is Draskovic. I don't know if he meant him, in any case, since it was probably said that in previous terms, the Foreign Ministry talked about it, we have good co-operation. As Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said, we have achieved good co-operation with the interior ministries of neighbouring countries. We believe that, when it comes to crime, there should be no limits. What Ms. Natasa Jovanovic said, I need to inform you that we are continuing talks on dual citizenship with Montenegro. We have our citizenship law, this is not about our position, this is about whether they will allow their citizens to have our citizenship without firing from Montenegrin citizenship. Our law exists, it will continue to be respected and we will continue to receive into Serbian citizenship all those in accordance with our law. We are likely to reach an agreement that would be a compromise solution, to allow all those who have dual citizenship by the day of signing this agreement, or have taken the dual citizenship of Serbia-Montenegro, so that they can keep it without denying and losing Serbia-Montenegro's citizenship. Finally, since you have talked here about what is needed for the EU Roadmap, it is necessary to form a co-ordination body to implement an integrated border management strategy. It will be done in the MUP by the beginning of next month. Also, to develop a strategy to combat illegal migration, our deadline is to start in December, to draw up an instruction on dealing with smuggled persons, it is already completed, to adopt a strategy to fight organised crime and an action plan to implement a strategy to combat organised crime, which is why our deadline, which we gave in the MUP, is the beginning of December. We appointed new members of the Council to fight trafficking in human beings and national anti-trafficking coordinators. The goal is also to adopt an action plan for the implementation of the anti-trafficking strategy by November 25th. We are waiting for an appointment to sign an agreement on co-operation with FRONTEX, an international border management organisation. These are the tasks that the MUP has. So, as far as the law and everything else is concerned, we're just gonna finish what I read to you, and by the end of this year it's all gonna be over. What's left? It remains to develop and adopt a migration management strategy, to establish a co-ordination body of the Serbian Government for migration management, to adopt a national strategy for the reintegration of returnees, based on the Readmission Agreement and the Action Plan for Acceptance, Care and Integration of Returnees under the Readmission Agreement. A national strategy for the fight against drugs in Serbia should also be adopted for the period 2008 to 2012, and an action plan for the implementation of this strategy. The draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing should be adopted. As you know, that law was already in the process and I don't know how it was, because it's been in the past many times in the process, maybe, not in this form. Serbia is also committed to ratifying the following Council of Europe conventions – the Convention on Cyber Crime; the Additional Protocol with the Convention on Cyber Crime, which refers to the incrimination of racist acts of xenophobic nature carried out through computer systems; the Convention on Human Beings Trade; the Convention on the Washing, Search and Confiscation, the confiscation of revenue acquired by crime and the financing of terrorism; the Protocol amending and supplementing the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. It is necessary to establish a co-ordination body of the government for justice and home affairs, which will deal with issues in the field of justice and home affairs. It is also necessary to conclude bilateral readmission and visa relief agreements, in line with the obligations of the Agreement with the European Union, and to provide for conditions for the procedure, for the implementation of the data acquisition and reception procedure for the issue of passports in diplomatic and consular offices abroad. So that's the action plan we have and that's about crossing the Roadmap towards the EU. But as far as the MUP is concerned, we've accomplished everything that's in line with the tasks we've had on this map of the road. Given the needs of Serbian citizens, travel documents are also valid in the following year, because not all technical conditions did not exist, which the state did not provide citizens with the possibility of changing passports, or we suggest that this part of the law be amended and that passports, travel documents are valid by the end of next year. I have taken this opportunity to answer various other questions, which are not directly related to what is exactly the subject of this law, but once again I call on all political parties, given that it is the citizens' interest, that it is something that is necessary to adopt, because it is a little bit of an age and that citizens need to know and that they have the security of how their travel documents apply, to vote this amendment and the addition of the law. Also, I want to make a commitment on behalf of the state, or the MUP, that we will have to guarantee all citizens, not only what you were talking about here, but about some liberalisation of the visa regime, which I don't want to talk about at this point, but I want to talk about the need to allow the citizens of Serbia to have new passports -- to simplify the procedure, to have the MUP create technical opportunities to reduce the crowd. We've already cut legal deadlines. The legal deadlines are 30 days, and we cut them to 15 and 10 days, depending on whether a request has been filed in Belgrade or somewhere outside Belgrade. If you're already making me say my own personal opinion, when it comes to European integration, I don't think it should be, they're absolutely harmful, or they're used for single use every mention of any deadlines involved. We also discussed this with EU representatives, who speak for themselves, so that we do not need to talk about it in this regard. By the end of the year, we will have another meeting with representatives of the European Commission, with European Commissioner Baroom, with whom we have spoken recently, where we will once again consider this translated 'Map of Way'. Then a mission will be sent, or commission, to look at the implementation of what we have brought here in the first few months, in January and February of the following year, and then we will discuss further the path that Serbia should move towards visa liberalisation. That is why I urge you to allow your votes to have Serbian citizens' travel documents in force by the end of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7431	Thank you, Mr. Minister. On the occasion of his injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bajatovic answered, so Mr. Maras will receive the replica Mr. Todorovic. He has the word Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7432	Dear Chairman, dear fellow MPs, I was waiting for this time before the break, because I didn't want to disturb the conclusion of this agenda. I'm sorry I couldn't be here before noon. I'm reporting about the article. 225 and 226, and I think the information that I'm about to give you will be useful for understanding, first of all, this story that is now current, about the gas bill received by individual consumers, i.e. households. I hope you'll grant me permission to speak here in the capacity of the director of Srbiagas, because you know I'm currently in charge. So, the citizens complained about us, in the Parliament group, and I see you, too, I met from the stenogram, that they got bills from distributors for the entire amount, contrary to the recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Not all distributors did, but most of them did. I would like to inform you that "Serbian" has held a meeting with representatives of all distributors, that our board of directors has fully accepted the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because, nevertheless, it is a legal entity and a business entity – that citizens, in practice, pay 62.5% of the bills, which would mean that for individual consumers, or households, there would be no price increases during this year, and that the second currency part would be 15 May, that is, by 15 May of the following year, each of the following accounts going at the monthly level – for the next six months. All distributors should report, and I have to admit that most of them didn't report to the Serbians, to determine the quantities they deliver to the households. Since remote heating systems and industry will be subject to the tariff system, please now citizens and all of you – all those who report to the "Srbigas" with the necessary quantities will have reduced accounts. Now they'll pay 62.5%, as requested by the government, and in six months' time, the rest. If there's a sharper drop in price... I beg you, Mr. Minister, to listen, it will be interesting for you, too. It's a matter of the security of this country, so I'm asking Mr. Secretary to hear it. If there is a sharper drop in gas prices, given that it does not exceed 20%, we will look to help the population. Therefore, please, as colleagues, and those distributors who do not trust the recommended measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – to understand that this is a relationship to families and individual consumers. So, I'm saying now, all consumers who have received an account in general should report to "Serbiagas", if their distributor won't do it – we will reduce all quantities of gas and all invoices to distributors, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia said. Since our founder of the public enterprise is the Government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: please finish and don't discuss) I think it's very interesting, if fellow MPs agree, I just want to get closer to the situation. Our founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What you and your citizens need to know, since this is a major blow to the standard of citizens, to the industry and to the remote heating systems, in our pocket, this price, which is too high and which we're going to pay hard, is based on a $51 dollar, and the dollar today is 68 dinar. That means that gas, by automatism, should collect 30%. If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, I see the MPs are listening. (President: I cannot allow you because you abuse the Rules of Procedure. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia will not allow further gas collection. And that's a little bit, it should be another 30%, I want the citizens to know. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia will bring "Srbigas" into the position that the pure loss of the substance is 50m euros, with so much gas price, will subsidise household consumption this year. I think the citizens of Serbia should know...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7433	One and a half minutes, thank you. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bayatovic, so I am warning you of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you not to do so anymore. Mr. Marash answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7434	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I greatly appreciate the experience that has been demonstrated and, just now, Mr. Dacic, Minister of the Interior, and Mr. Bajatovic, and the MP, and the director of the "Srbiagas". I appreciate that he came here right away to give information to the citizens, but what we heard, from both of them, I think it's a little problematic. First of all, Mr. Dacic, not a single word of responsibility. LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic, as authorised by the LDP for this point, and two MPs, asked you to say at least one word responsible for the situation. It's not the state's responsibility, it's the responsibility of some individuals who have been deceived by some individuals... That's right, the state will pay. I would go back to what Mr. Bajatovic was saying. So now you've transferred to citizens to call the "Serbigas" and that's how it's going to be a two-part payment. You see, someone's responsible for that, too. Someone is responsible for the government's promise to be from two parts, so someone is responsible for the fact that these accounts to distributors didn't arrive in two parts, so someone is responsible for the fact that these distributors they're working with didn't respond to, and in the end, the citizens got a 60% higher bill. Someone's responsible for that. We've been here all day trying to get to the responsible people for the leaks. I know you've come, Malten, to this place of director yesterday and, of course, you're not responsible for it, but this government has also put this government on a negotiating team with Gazprom until yesterday's Serbian and Yugoslav Vice President and he's a member of the negotiating team with the Russians. In whose interest does he work? We learned from the media that Sasa Ilic is a member of the Serbian negotiating team, and a man who was paid by the Russians three times more than was paid at the position of the director of "Srbigas". Who's responsible for this? Such a conflict of interest was and it's still something amazing, and someone is responsible for it. Mr. Dacic, we were just asking to hear at least one name. Someone is responsible for these failures and the citizens pay for it, and you say the state is guilty. Those who run the state, i.e. those who assume on behalf of the state, are responsible for certain tasks, the state itself is not responsible and I would not want, like you, that citizens will ultimately pay those 60% more, because of those certain distributors that did not comply with your recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7435	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic answered, and Mr. Buha answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must thank the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dacic, which has fully confirmed both the suspicions and all the facts presented by the SRS MPs when it comes to making these passports and all that we have stated, among other things, especially when it comes to Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic. Based on what the Minister of the Interior told us, it cannot be concluded other than that Bozidar Djelic is either an absolute dilettor, or a fraud, or both. If you take just what Ivica Dacic read, what else does Serbia have to do to obtain visa liberalisation, how could Bozidar Djelic say in April that by the end of the year we will reach the White Schengen list? This shows the extent to which Serbian citizens are deceived and what frauds are found in the most responsible places in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now we come up with another thing that's very interesting here. You know, the fight between Djelic and Jelasic isn't random at all. You just ask yourself, what does Jelasic and Djelic have to do with the passports? Extraordinary big connections. You know, when crocodiles argue, what's the reason -- money, commission, division of prey, and this is big prey, extremely big prey. You got the information, I said 110 million cost the equipment. You know what the usual fees are; here people are named after it: "Mr. Five percent," "Mr. Seven," "Mr. Ten percent," so you can see the amount of commissions. We're coming up with an amazing fact. In the Law on travel documents, the National Bank is authorized to issue travel documents. What does that have to do with anything? Who did this? Well, the one who entered so many things into his ministry's jurisdiction that it took two sides of the Ministry Act to list everything he does there. Here, simple facts. They took a producer, which they would say, from a German company in Slovenia, giving them 15 euros, five euros. For what? Who made that possible? For what? If it had been done by the Ministry of the Interior, it would have charged only the costs and the matter would have been done. Why do the Bureau for making bills of five euros per passport, which is paid by Serbian citizens, so they come down damaged that they had to take old passports, so now they have to get new ones, so that those who deceive and cheat on Serbian citizens on their backs and get rich?- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7437	Mr. Buha has reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7438	When we talk about the price of natural gas, then we have to get back to the very beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7439	Which member is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7440	Art. 225 and 226. I'm asking for information from the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Energy Agency, since they're in charge of this area, I'm talking about an increase in the price of natural gas. We have to get back to the very beginning. Both the Energy Agency and the Ministry of Mining and Energy, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have not seen enough everything they should have seen in the process of determining such a high price of natural gas. The SRS has suggested to you, withdraw this decision, do not be ashamed, and now we see that both the Government and the Ministry, and the Agency, and the current power of shame over this decision to increase the price of natural gas. Why? Because, first of all, only 12% of total consumption is spent by citizens, or households. In cash, it is about 40m euros. When we set it to 4.5-5 months, maybe even six months of consumption, then we see that it's small funds. Regardless of the small funds involved, the government has defined itself as such, it has, or has given consent to increase, that is the only thing that is kept quiet at this point. It's best to keep quiet. But look, I'll tell you about the situation in Novi Sad. A local distributor called "New Now Gas" was billing the prices, sending the citizens, here, a few minutes ago I asked the woman, she paid the bill today. What's the price? It says 34.67. How much was in September – 22 dinars. They charged their 60%, paid and many citizens will pay. The government recommended paying in two accounts, one in 62.5, the other in 37.5. You're deluding the citizens, just because you don't care, like it doesn't matter, or 60, or 100%, or 5%, or 8%, etc. It's about one inconclusive decision from the government. So I call upon the current authority - pull now, better than to enter into all that we will expect. The citizens will pay. Local distributors don't listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7441	There have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, nor have you, you have misused the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you not to do so in the future. Mr. Bayatovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7442	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank my colleagues, Buhi. We could've made another decision, charged everything from the citizens right away, but I'm going to point to one paradox. At this point, the price without VAT is 38 dinars at the Serbian border. So it doesn't make sense that you buy gas at one price that's higher than the price that we're selling here in Serbia. This year, in this warm season until New Year's Eve, we are going to subsidise that spending at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia, with 50m euros. I want you to know that. Even this price is, based on only course differences, 30% lower, we won't lie to anyone. I agree with you, Mr. Bhuha, that we've made a mistake. That's why I'm saying now, "Let's call Srbiagas," 'cause I can't know, please, I can't get a distributor. Guys, he's a legal entity. Let's understand what we can do. "Serbigas," as the largest distributor...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7443	Mr. Bajatovic, you have not called on any member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7444	I'm referring to article 101. Rules of Procedure, I have the right to a replica, Mr. Chairman. So that we don't compete here right now for voter votes, but for them to be able to heat and use gas, please understand the next situation. "Serbigas" divided his accounts into two meals. I can't influence whoever's the gas distributor for the household, how he's gonna do it. Most of them didn't sign up, and as far as we're concerned, she didn't split the accounts in two. So I asked and abused this pay phone – let them contact us, because then, as business partners, we can ask people to let us know which distributors they're dealing with, because we could react. Please understand one thing. It's a stock exchange. Someone bought it, got a license, sold it to citizens. One thing is the struggle for votes, and another thing, which is far more dangerous, which you do not understand, is the question – is the next $114m invoice, how long should it be the next meal, Serbia will pay, and the Public Business, at this cost, with this loss? Let's be responsible. If there's no gas, the easiest way to turn the tap is to attack the power system. When the power system attacks, there's gonna be a lot of things, people. I invite you from this pay phone, if we are all responsible, together with the means of public information, including the Government, and the Ministry of Energy and Consumers, this winter will go well, we will have no problem in supplying electricity and gas. That's what I was gonna say. What was the subject of interest here, the UBPOK investigation at the "Serbiagas" is still going on. By the size and length of the paperwork and how much documentation is required, I don't know how far the inspectors have arrived, but I can conclude that this is done very seriously and in the long run. I'm just saying that this Serbian investigation is still going on. I'm asking for your understanding in this sense and for this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7445	Thank you very much. I'm finishing the initial search. I'm setting a break until 3:30. First after the break, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word will be given to the People's MP Slobodan Maras, and then to Mr. Buha. Thank you. [[After break, 15.35]] Good afternoon. We continue to enjoy the afternoon session. Mr. Free Maras is given word by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of Article 85(5), we will continue our work and after 18 hours, until the debate on the point on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7447	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary, I have come to you for a simple reason, which remains unsaid what we discussed today before you took a break in the afternoon debate. I must point out that what the last MP said, that this is a battle for voters, absolutely does not stand. This is, above all, a struggle for citizens not to suffer the consequences of irresponsible policy. We heard from the interior minister, after that, and from the director of "Srbigas", from this assembly speaker, the minister said that the state is responsible, not an individual, and not the vice-president of the government who deceived the public for almost a year, about our European integrations, or the validity of passports, the white Schengen visa, etc. The director of "Serbigas" transfers responsibility to citizens, who have to call "Serbigas" and advertise their 60% increased gas bills. I find it irresponsible, because we have a promise from the prime minister, we have a promise from the Minister of Energy that citizens will pay their bills in two wars. Now that they're trying to get out of the Serbians to get to the distributors, I think it's extremely irresponsible. Just try to imagine the situation that 20,000 citizens are trying to advertise "Serbiagas" bigger accounts. Also, I think it is irresponsible that this same "Srbigas" or "Naftagas", or NIS, in a situation where they complain that gas must be more expensive than it is, they assign management allowances to directors who are employed in NIS. The 50 received management allowances of between five and seven average salaries. It's a matter of responsibility, how anyone gets a job they do. We were here to witness when ten days ago, fifteen days ago, when we adopted budget rebalancing, that the Railways received a subsidy, and yesterday, we heard that Director Sarancic received a bonus for leaving the company that operates in plus, or for a job well done. What were we subsidizing for? Here is a fundamental question for someone to take responsibility for their incompetence, for misleading citizens, and it's not about fighting for voters. (President: Time) For voters we will fight daily, but, by exposing our policies, not by misleading citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7448	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Buha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7449	Ladies and gentlemen, when I speak of this agony and increasing the price of natural gas, we must return to the very beginning. The government has made a huge mistake, and we stress that because it has not seen the entire system, the distribution system, the supply and distribution of gas. We have found here and on the Committee on Industry that the government has been obliged to obtain all relevant data from the Energy and Ministry of Mining and Energy, from which it will look at the real needs to increase the price of natural gas. We are here, in the debate, and the means of information have gone as far as possible to obtain certain data, which have shown us that there are huge gaps in the gas distribution system. The worst link in the entire system is local distributors. Local distributors charge us from 20, up to 40% of the price they get natural gas at. That's not allowed. The state must not allow such high margins for something where they only appear as mediators. They're just invoices. If it's a failure of local self-government, then whoever controls the level of central government, which in this case is the Energy Agency, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, has to intervene. Why does he have to intervene? Because we now have different ownership structures in the system, from social enterprises, state, public and private enterprises. That's not allowed. The system itself is configured so that all local distributors have to get licenses; 37, 8 doesn't have a license today either. Probably won't even get it. As for the Supreme Authority, the central government, we see from this that the system of protection, the system of control, the central government must exercise control over the work of local distributors and prohibit the work of those distributors who do not have a license. Why is a license important? Because the person receiving the licence must apply the tariff system, binding the tariff system. Those who have not applied it and who do not apply it have such prices. I'm not surprised that the distributor in Novi Sad, we found, increased the price of natural gas by 60%. Why? Because there's no control.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7450	Thank you. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions to the Law on State Officials (Principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to the ambassador groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of the debate is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group is one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" – 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP Group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slavic group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Before I give you my word, Mr. Minister, Ms. Jovanovic, vice-president of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, answered the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7451	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Art. 225 and 226. Namely, I was waiting for the opportunity for the State Administration and Local Self-Government Minister, Mr. Milan Markovic, to appear after the scandal that took place in the Kragujevac City Assembly and in the Kragujevac District Court. Now I ask you for information, Mr Markovic, if you have met, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, that in the town of Kragujevac, in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, you did not respect Article 47 and Article 49. The Law on Local Elections, because in the most harsh way possible, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated, and first of all, in the city's assembly itself, of course, in the fruit of the Kragujeva City Click, which is characterized by Stevanović and Milenic, along with Tomislav Nikolic? So first, at a session held before the City Election Commission, the Kragujevac Assembly unanimously decided that, with the authority, contracts and resignations, the resignations of the disfellowshipped former members of the SRS and the return of the SRS to the parliamentary mandates. Then he met the Committee on the mandate-immunity issues of the City of Kragujevac Assembly and, also unanimously decided to protect the citizens of Kragujevac's will for each vote that the citizens gave to the SRS electoral list, with the attached documents. Since that didn't happen, I can't say that your law is incomplete, it will show a nearer or further history. Namely, you know, and as a graduate lawyer, and now as a minister, that there have been various cases of violations of the Constitution and between the two world wars, especially in Broz's communist time, nothing was respected, and the electoral will was not there. While we're playing democracy, or you from DS, that's what you call yourself, and it's obvious that dictatorship is in the state and that your judges can do what they want, that criminalized courts, such as the Kragujevac District Court, Mr. Markovic, whose head is the pretender for the President of the Court of Appeal, a certain Miroljub Tomic, then I suggest you investigate the whole case. I ask you for information, what you, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, will do, and I think it is your obligation, to protect the law by which the committees are elected, and I repeat, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with the Law on the implementation of the Constitution, on your proposal, Mr Markovic, is voted in the Assembly. I remember very well your speech when voting this package of laws, that it is not only in harmony with the Constitution, but in order to protect the will of the citizens. You spoke, entering some comparative solutions of other countries, which in the environment, which in general, the Council of Europe, is a solution that is now ours and, as it were, the electoral will of our citizens. (President: Time.) I'm finishing up, Mr. Novakovic. Here, do it and show that you, like Milan Markovic, are behind the law and, at the very least, ask for information on how Kragujevac is the only city in Serbia where the most severe possible kidnapping of parliamentary mandates has been carried out. I expect information from you as soon as possible. Otherwise, we filed criminal charges against those two judicial councils and asked the republican public prosecutor to act in accordance with emergency legal remedies and to seek the protection of legality. You can't do that, of course, but you can, through your ministry, question the whole case because it's not a respected law. Mr. Novakovic, I'm sorry I timed out. This is a very important question, because Kragujevac is the only city where some citizens, illegal representatives, don't know who, sits in the Kragujevac City Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7452	Does the proposer's representative, Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7453	Thank you. I've reported to the Vice President of the Assembly to give information, to the extent possible at this time. So, I'm not familiar with the Kragujevac case. What you just said, it's a lot new for me. We, by law adopted in the National Assembly, have introduced a completely new solution for our system, which is that the district court decides on mandates. It is a solution, as I recall, and in a debate welcomed by all. Just to remind myself, under the old law, when there was a dispute over the mandate, it was usually addressed to the government, then the government gave interpretations. Under the State Administration Act, this interpretation was not binding. So we had an imperfect system. We now have a perfectly perfect system, in that executive power is not involved in anything when it comes to the mandates of the board. What I know is that solution is completely effective in practice. Recently, on TV, I listened to one of the parties' representatives, who said there were over a hundred district court decisions on this issue and that court practice is quite balanced. The only thing I can tell you right now is that we asked the courts in Belgrade and Serbia, so we asked all the district courts for a report on this, to see to what extent this practice is uniform. During tomorrow, I will ask what reports have arrived to you, as vice president of the National Assembly and the People's Parliament, and I will provide all that information. What I would ask you to understand is that, exactly, according to these legal solutions, as a minister, I cannot comment on the application of the rules by the courts. Please consider that. I'll do my best to give you all the information I have on how this court practice is. If I have data for all of Serbia, I will also give it to you for all of Serbia, and I asked for it because in the previous period, in two municipalities, independent of this case and from this relationship you are now talking about, there was something different court practice. Then it's important for me, as Minister, to see what court practice is, too, so you'll get the data tomorrow, hopefully, everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7454	You've been given your word to speak of a point that's on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7455	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants. We've discussed this subject before, if I'm not mistaken, a year, or a little more days, so this law and the problem we're facing today is not new, and I think we'll be able to talk about it at this session. However, I would point out a few more details of this bill that may be important. I'd like to start from the beginning, from Articles 1 and 2. So, Article 1 and Article 2, since we already had the need to go with this law, then we made an effort to enrich it with some positive solutions, past what is necessary, we provided for in the provisions of the Civil Protection Act, Article 20, which speaks of the Civilian Protector, in a situation where a civil servant rejects co-operation, and all civil servants are obliged to cooperate with the Citizens' Protector, to give it information, etc., in a situation where a civil servant refuses to, or the government which puts a civil servant in a position to resolve it. I think this was necessary, in this way to strengthen the position of the Guardian of Citizens, because in practice we have had the situation, I think we all know from previous years, that certain independent authorities chosen by this Assembly are asking a civil servant for certain information, regardless of whether it's pay data, whether it's data on respect for the rights of an employee and the like, and that the civil servant simply refuses to fulfil what his legal obligation is. In such a case, the Guardian of Citizens could not appear with some effective instrument in his hands. If we adopt these amendments and complements, the Guardian of Citizens will be authorised to propose a discharge of that civil servant. I think it's a good solution, which goes towards strengthening the position of not only the Protector of Citizens, but also the Trustee of Information and all others who perform there, I say, a relatively ungrateful role, which is a constant kind of pressure on those who have the power and power to uphold the law. In Article 3, we have done a termological alignment, and in a way, essentially, with the authentic interpretation given by the National Assembly, or the Legislative Committee, which refers to the Law on Higher Education and Names, according to the transition, from that regime that we previously had, to the regime which is due to the adoption of the Bologna Declaration. Article 4 To clarify, there is a staff management service in our system, and this service, among other things, is engaged in certain training and generally takes care of the staff, the personnel plan, the execution of competitions, etc. In line with the recommendation of the Group of States, the Council of Europe, to fight corruption, with the 38th plenary session of 2008, which refers to the need to bring, in particular, mandatory anti-corruption programmes, we have foreseen, Article 4, that the Staff Office organises the professional training of civil servants, especially from the field of fighting corruption, which means that it will have to carry out this harmonisation. Finally, Article 5. Article 5 provides the Government with the possibility to organise or place civil servants in office by 31 December 2009. Of course, there is the question, why in 2005, when this concept of depoliticalism was accepted, why has it not been done since 2005? To be perfectly clear, only 50 officers have been placed in positions since 2005 until today, and we have at this point, according to the 2008 Staff Plan, 358 positions in the state administration. There are two reasons, in my opinion, for that. The first is one kind of inert, or, perhaps, unwillingness to accept a single solution that no one in this environment has. In that sense, we are really the most advanced. Not even Slovenia, not Croatia, or other countries that are closer to accepting some of the standards that exist in EU countries, do not have what we established in 2005. In my opinion, perhaps in one part, this concept of a state-officer system is ambitious, in one part, perhaps too ambitious. When I became a minister in the last government, I simply accepted it as it was given and continued to try to implement the concept as such. The last government launched 108 competitions and, if it hadn't fallen, 108 appointments would have been. The moment the government ceases its mandate, according to the Government Act, it cannot place civil servants in office. That's the second reason we don't have a real position. When you look, from 2005 to today, we have had two elections, or two government crashes, or two governments that have stopped their mandate. After the term of office and the elections ended, it is a long period of assembly of new governments. That should be considered. This deadline may look long by 31 December 2009. Believe me, he's the shortest possible, and I'll tell you why. So, the whole process of putting one civil servant in a position, according to the account I made and which I will say when there are discussions on amendments, if there is any need, and I was free to offer MP groups that, before this debate, in the day they choose, I would come to explain the laws on their parliamentary groups, and now I am saying, first of all, for those parliamentary groups who have not accepted it, they probably didn't have time for 87 days, so that everything is optimal, 87 days should be filled in one position. The system is rigid, it is rigid, it is, perhaps, and complicated, but I think that if there is no situation for the government to end its mandate, we can carry out the position of civil servants by 31 December 2009. I've prepared a conclusion for the government. The conclusion will go on Thursday, will be adopted by the government. We, as Government, will have monthly reports on how many bodies, ministers and other organ managers launched initiatives and competitions to implement and place civil servants in positions during the previous month. It's a kind of pressure on all the executives. We'll see if it gives the right effect. I believe so. If by December 31st 2009, we don't finish setting up civil servants in positions, I think we've lost our chance to establish this system, practically, we've compromised the whole idea and we won't be able to, probably, talk about a professional and depolitized state administration. In any case, I would like Parliament to support these bill proposals and hope so. I expect that in the debate we are going to have, in particular about the amendments, we will look closer at all the proposed solutions and, in the end of the day, we will face arguments, in order to answer the question, whether what is proposed is optimal or perhaps there is some better idea of how to overcome the new situation. When I say that, I repeat, the second time since 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7456	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word? (Not here) The word is Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7457	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, of course we couldn't agree with you on this bill and, not only with a sense of great commitment to the citizens who voted for us, supporting the concept of departementisation and depolitisation of society, but with a sense of great responsibility to all those unfinished affairs, we will vote against this law. In this way, we will protest the fact that the government, which considers itself pro-European and reformal, gives no argument for such a definition. Come on, first, let's start with the essence of this law. When I see how you look at me, I understand that you are happy that you will not vote for this law, but will have to do so by an obedient ruling coalition. I think all this sloppyness is, in fact, a terrible compromise on our society. It's been over that 100-day period, in which the government finds its incompetence in some of the children's diseases. We here now, especially before the debate on confidence in the government, need to see if there is a capacity to remove this systemic error that we see in the government's policy, which every day comes before Parliament with some anti-European proposal. That's what's problematic for us. I will quote to you the 2008 European Commission report, a report that you could have been familiar with only if you were personally interested in such a thing, since the Vice-President's office did not adequately inform you of this, because in two-and-a-half pages of the selected translation of the 58-page European Commission's long report, of course, there was nothing I wanted to talk about now. The European Commission's 2008 report explicitly resents the government's failure to complete the process of calling and conducting public competitions to fill the place in the state administration. The problem is that the process is not completed, and not only is the deadline missed, and this cannot be removed by a simple change in the law, where the period-longing serves only as a legal cover for missing the existing deadline. It is explicitly resented that the administration reform process was slowed in 2008 and is expected to strengthen the system of competition, departementisation and professionalisation of public administration in the next report and period. What is the basis for such expectations? First, on the standards and clear criteria of the EU, secondly, on the needs of our society. In the past few months, we haven't received any satisfactory guarantee from the government that they'll do anything they didn't do in the previous term. Is the principle of depolitisation and departementisation respected in those decisions that the Government made binding in the process of appointment, for example, members of the boards of directors of public enterprises, or director of public enterprises? If the government has not been able to call a competition by 31 May and under this law conducts a departmentalisation, in fact, professionalisation of the state administration, what has prevented the government from handling these principles in the appointments it has carried out in the last few months? What prevented the government from respecting such a principle, let's say, in the election of the director of "Srbiagas", who is also our fellow MP, who appeared here during today's debate, offering us an unacceptable explanation of his refusal, or the inability of his company to respect the government's decision. Serbian citizens were issued accounts precisely in the amount we talked about, protesting the excessive and irresponsible gas collection, while the company "Srbigas", a public enterprise, did not respect the government's decision to respect. Is that a signal that this company's management isn't credible and that it's not doing its job properly? It is for us. Is that a surprise for us? No, I don't. For you, I don't know, but the fact is, for example, that you're in the position of the director of Srbigas, one of the strategic companies in society, you've appointed a man who has nothing to do with Srbigas, except maybe he has a gas stove or he's heating himself up on gas. I am talking about the government's inability to affirm the principle which is the essence of this law, the principle of depoliticalisation and departementisation, or professionalization, and so on in every segment of its operation. We have nothing against those weather changes that came from this superficial reform of our education system, but I would draw your attention to something you neglected to mention in your presentation, to the fact that, according to the staff management service, before the adoption of the Ministry Act, and according to the adopted staff plan for 2008, we have 358 jobs in the authorities of the state administration. Why are foreign affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the MUP and the BIA excluded from this law? For what? Let's put our trust in your intentions in advance, although we have no argument, let's be naive, we will professionalise the area of education, health care, but will continue to be a party monopoly, defense – party monopoly, foreign policy – party monopoly, BIA – party monopoly, and in all these places, will primarily take care of some political correctness, and then professional ability. That's why we can't support this law of yours. What's so special about us? This is a ban on the return of the law and other general acts, as set out in Article 197. The constitution, the constitution that you all voted for together, the Constitution that was voted for in Serbia for two days longer than the Constitution was discussed. Article 197 states: "Laws and all other general acts cannot have a feedback. Exceptionally, only certain provisions of the law may have a return fact, if this requires a general interest established in the adoption of the law’. So here is a retroactive measure for one member of the law, but not for any member. That member is the essence of this law. We would have the understanding that the retroactive measure is applied to a member of the law which, practically, treats this personnel list differently through these professions that have been changed, given the reforms in our education system, but this is not any member of the law. You're retroactively, practically, prolonging the application of the whole law, but there's no law here. I know that there are government representatives here all the time, who are dissatisfied with our interpretations, but try to answer in some argumentable way why the LDP should support this law. We like the idea that the public measure given by Manchester, as a reason for the termination of employment, is included in this law. What guarantee does that make? We need to understand each other again by folding our shoulders. Do we have a committee to prevent conflicts of interest? Does this committee express any measures, sanctions, recommendations? You, as a ruling coalition, do not respect this committee. The committee has several times publicly appealed to the ruling coalition's MPs, pointing to the incompatibility of parliamentary functions and functions of the municipality's president. Your MPs don't care about that relationship. That absolutely doesn't interest them. They complained, on the grounds that they did no harm to anyone by their actions. They are not qualified and we should not be interested in their opinion. We are interested in established practice, since the decisions of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest are not respected. The measure you're talking about right now doesn't mean anything. She won't be respected either. You're telling us that in the event of a Simeon application, your ruling coalition will be severed, because some member of the ruling coalition does not want to leave his post, even though it requires him to do so. How did we react to other decisions? How do we react to court decisions in Strasbourg? Are we applying those decisions? How do we react to UN decisions? We don't apply those decisions. In the case of our colleague, journalist Bodrozic, these measures have not been applied. Now here we get three kinds of changes in the law. We say that the first one that, in principle, is not disputed for us, but in reality, in practice, has so far been inapplicable, and that is respect for the decisions of independent institutions. Make sure that's how it's gonna be. There is no such thing, but that the public measure which has been made will be analysed and accepted by the authority carrying out the appointment. The big problem is not enough quality solution. Now let's see why, in fact, there was no respect for this law. It has been said that the previous government has called hundreds, 108 competitions, and here we see that the personnel list covers 358 jobs, but that it is exceptional that we do not know how many jobs in all these ministries and BIAs. We can agree that other rules apply to these jobs, but that is unacceptable to us, because this is not the standard criterion of Europe, to which the government is leading us and to which we want to go by helping you. There are no rules for one ministry, other rules for another ministry. There's no argument about that. Of course, if we follow the rules of the previous system, then, of course, something like that will be understandable, but we want to change that system, not serve it. We can't agree on that. A civil servant serves the interests of the state, protecting the interests of the citizens, and that is the definition of a civil servant that is acceptable to us. So no competitions are organised until May 31st, but we're talking about 2008. This law came into force immediately after the adoption, as you told us, and at that time in the ruling coalition was part of today's ruling coalition, that is, the ruling coalition was supported by the SPS, a member of today's ruling coalition, and in full membership was the party G17 plus today's coalition member. Why didn't you argue between yourselves? Let's just say, in a previous government meeting, why didn't there be respect for this law, and then do something to keep the law respected? We all know the truth. This is a front for the affirmation of the party state, which we face at every turn. When we're looking for a job, we're looking for him in a party. When we're looking for justice, we're looking for it in a party. When we're looking for an understanding for a child at school, we're looking for him in a party. When we look for safety and safety, they tell us – go where you went when you were looking for a place for a child in school, a relationship in a hospital or a job. With this relationship to the party state problem, you're, in fact, showing ambition to change the cosmetic formula without touching the contents of anything. The way the new government is organised has established the foundations of the party state. It is openly discussed that it is impossible to address the problems stemming from the party's functioning, as it also threatens the coalition itself. Let me remind you, for example, of a scandalous statement by the deputy minister of labour and social affairs, which suggested that women import into Serbia. The minister said he couldn't do anything, because the deputy is not from his party, but he didn't think to resign because he shouldn't be a minister in such a ministry, but without a problem he continued to do the job, expecting another topic to push the political and moral scandal out of the first plan. Do we have these problems elsewhere? Yes, we have them in every ministry, every public enterprise, every board of directors, even here, in Parliament. Here in Parliament, the criteria of expertise and professionalism are not respected. We share assembly committees by party key, delegations by party key, heads of delegations by party key and quota, and thus completely compromise what is the essence of our efforts, which is the modernisation of the state and society, which is the hostage of the unreformed state. We can't vote for your law, because there's no guarantee that it will be applied next year. For example, if you had said in your speech to the MPs that you guaranteed your position that this law would be respected, we might have an argument to agree with you, but you didn't. On the contrary, in everything you've said, we actually recognize the appearance of a minister who doesn't believe in what he's saying himself, but if so, so to speak. This way, we are facing the wording "Tadic's Administration" and the life in which institutions disappear before us, parliament is not parliament, the government is not government, courts are not courts, prosecutors are not prosecutors, construction firms are not construction firms. We have one institution, the president of Serbia, and if so, let it be founded in the Constitution and in the laws. I'm going to remind you of just one of the criteria that is very important to us, which is a criterion that determines the status of an independent advisor, the status of a counselor and the status of a younger counselor. The independent advisor is a state official who has acquired a higher education in second-degree studies, graduate academic studies, master, specialist academic studies, specialist vocational studies and at least five years of professional experience. The advisor is a state official who does complex jobs, which are often precisely defined, not to read these pointless explanations, but let's see, of all the advisors of the current government, how many of them have five years of work experience, three years of work experience in jobs where they appear as advisers. How many years of working experience does the Government of Divac have as an adviser to Deputy Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister and Police Minister? How many years of work experience does Mr. Tom Phil have on these jobs? How many years have advisors in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Djelic, I mean only work experience in these areas? If that doesn't apply to them, because he has the right to choose a personal advisor, who is appointed, who is not elected according to this law, why would it oblige anyone else? That is what this is about, the fact that these principles must be respected, absolutely, by those who adopt these principles for others, and not that we are listening here to the finance minister, who tells us – well, it doesn't matter that we overstepped the law a little and that we didn't pass the budget to the MPs, even though the Constitution and the law oblige us to do so. Similarly, it would be an understandable and acceptable explanation for why someone does not have to pay taxes when a request for such a thing arrives. So principles or exist are absolutely respected by those who establish principles and by example prove that these principles are beneficial to society, or are pointless. In no principle that has been recognizable in the current functioning of the Serbian government, that we are not talking about dates, there is no willingness to demonstrate a demonstration of the party state and affirmation of expertise and profession. Is there any other way? You got it. Take a look at the example of Belgrade. At the LDP insistence, a public competition was introduced as a criterion in the Belgrade City Statute. At the insistence of the LDP, and in the cramped formats, in the Law on Local Self-Government, through the form of a public call, although a partial process of departisation and depolitisation of the city administration has been started, and it works. The Secretary of Health at the Secretariat in which, as LDP, we assumed responsibility, is not a member of the LDP, is a member of the other party. Belgrade Road director is not a member of the LDP, he is a member of the other party. None of them were on any of the LDP's committee lists. We want to see such examples at the level of the Republic, because they can function, which shows the LDP's functioning here in the city. When that happens, it depends on the government itself, but I'm afraid your government is neither in the position nor considers at this time the necessary affirmation of this segment of its operation necessary. That's what's problematic. We agree that the government, under pressure, had to make a whole series of compromises and the price of these compromises was acceptable at a time when compromises were made. That argument cannot be absolutely acceptable at any time. July is far behind us and that then the mountain government was stopped in formation and instead formed a new one, today it no longer has the useful value it had at that time. You must understand that, Mr. Markovic, and you and your colleagues. In the elections, many voted for the ruling coalition, or for the largest party, the strongest list, so as not to vote for the SRS. Meanwhile, the "devil" Radical Party has partly become acceptable to you and will be your coalition partner in some municipalities in Serbia, which is your right and we do not want to talk too much about it. But, by the way, the kind of understanding we had for your government has stopped, because today, practically, through that kind of partnership, you have opened up the possibility of this kind of criticism. We can no longer look through the fingers, children's diseases can no longer be tolerated. This law is to play the concept of departisation and depolitisation, through this law no one is ready to take responsibility, and so far the government's behaviour is, in fact, talking about the fact that this law will be misused for cementing party structures, which so far has not been established, because months earlier they have been arguing about public enterprises, boards, ambassadors, functions, positions, giraffes, so now it's time to agree on state secretaries and state officials and this arrangement will last as long as you need it, and at this point it is most legalised through the changes of deadlines set by the law. That's what's wrong, it's anti-European, and that's why we don't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7458	Advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic, gets the word over the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7459	Mr. Novakovic, I expected you to intervene, as protector and guardian of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, I object to you, it's article 27. Rules of Procedure. I am sure that Mr. Jovanovic, in the heat of criticising this bill, lost one description -- "the devil's Serbian Radical Party". Excuse me, they're not talking to the SRS. When one of the radicals becomes free radicals, he becomes a cancerist and then becomes a Democrats; this is how the Democratic Party was created in 1934. So a small group of free radicals made a Democratic Party. Radicals, when they're disciplined in the SRS, they're patriots, they love their country, they defend their country and they're not devilish, Mr. Jovanovic. They become diabolical, perverse and debauchery when they approach or become an integral part of the Democratic Party. You probably meant that kind of devil's work. I've got to distract you, we're currently in the cleaning phase, we're cleaning ourselves up, we're throwing away all that stuff, so we're going to volunteer to leave, say, and what sold some location, and it wasn't in power, so now we're going to start tycoons to charge for it, so let's change power, if we have to, in Zemun, we're going to change everything to finish the job on some location. There, and yesterday some TV set up to record something. Only they knew something was going to happen. At the retirement home, there is one location in Zemun, someone sold that location, took the money much earlier, the one that gave the money, Mr. Markovic, is now looking for a location. The location can't be obtained illegally, it has to be legal. Since the law cannot be won, let's change power in Zemun and discuss local elections in 12 municipalities. You, Mr. Markovic, have nothing to do with this, but Gilas has something to do with it, because he was making a hell of a co-production with someone. Of course, Mr. Jovanovic probably figured out what was going on, so he lost it. So that devil's part is no longer in the SRS, so be sure of that, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7460	Thank you. Mr Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs Pesic and Mr Ilic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7461	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, Member 104. I can agree in part with what you said, Mr. Krassic. I just wanted to say that there's something here that shouldn't be the subject of abuse. Very often, an anemic and incompetent policy is sought by speaking much more about someone on the other hand. In fact, I don't think we've interfered with your party's relations with anyone else before, but we just didn't like the principle of political opponents being anthemised and that criticism was an alleged argument to support those who criticize. We judged it last year, and this year, and that's how we'll behave in the future. Very clearly, I'm talking about you and the presidents of the other parties here – what we can support, support, and what we don't support, we reasonally criticise. That's what we did in the case of this law. I was just quoting a very irresponsible relationship with our society, which left citizens in party trenches, while leaders in the meantime, at least let's get back together, but met somewhere halfway. That's what I think is bad, because they didn't take people out behind them. If they took people out and set off together, they never did anything to understand where they were wrong in the past. By the way, we don't have anything against agreements being made and competitions with everyone. It's something that's useful, if all of this is meant to be an affirmation of some public interest. In this law, we didn't recognize it. In fact, we recognize a number of weaknesses and a lot of irresponsibility. Even the minister himself in his performance, the way he spoke, shows how far the government is from the role it should play in this segment of reforming the state administration, which has become one of the biggest obstacles and problems in modernising our society. We talked about the way this structure of government is built, we talked about disrespecting those principles that we recognize in the intention that the legislator stands out in this law, and that's something that can't be left aside. It is particularly unacceptable, I would say, a hypocritical argument by which, I don't know, the technical government had no mandate to apply this law, and, let's say, it had a mandate to vote at its session of the Energy Agreement, in electoral silence. Therefore, no one can say that, in fact, the lack of mandate was the reason for such a thing, but the fact that you couldn't share between yourselves these party quotas, in a situation where it was clear that you weren't going to be coalition partners after the election. That's how you had to do it. Let's put it that way. There are countries where this principle is respected, countries where an administration is coming in, it sets up personnel and takes responsibility for such a thing. We would have nothing to do with that logic, which we often recognize in reasons, when it is said – since the state is the owner of an enterprise, then the party in power should manage the company. But when the party in power runs the company, then the company fails, then the party in power does not respond, but it withdraws from the story. So let the ruling coalition now take responsibility for the chaos of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7462	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7463	I would be ashamed to say something like that – thank you. But I understand that time has passed, and I suggest you listen to me, because then it would be easier for you and us who are trying to change something here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7464	Mr. Minister, here you go, replica, then Mrs. Pesic. As a nice man, thank you all, counting on me to deal with responsible people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7465	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not now open the controversy with Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. He's opened a series of issues far wider than my mandate here, when it comes to defending this law. I must say, Mr. Jovanovic, if I were an opposition, I would say a lot of things like you said, not like you, because you're a good speaker, but certainly a little bit more professional, because, nevertheless, this matter is much closer to me. But if you were the government, Mr. Jovanovic, believe me, the legal situation we've found now cannot be overcome legally but this way. Believe me, the same thing I'm defending right now, if you were the government, you'd have to do this way to bridge the situation. Because, after the date when the appointment was mandatory, the Law says - the duty of the persons in those positions ceases, which would indeed lead to an apparent chaos in the state. In particular, a state official is, for example, a republican public defender. Imagine a situation where by law more, de facto, or de jure, cannot represent the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm telling you that your speech has opened up a series of questions. Many of these questions are known to our public and there is no need to speak now – e, we are now a perfect society. We're not perfect company, but if you were the government, you'd have to come out with a solution like this. At this point, our legal order knows no different solutions than the feedback of the provision of this law, which will convalitate the state we had on May 31st, to this day. As for the counselor, you quoted well – a younger counselor, counselor, independent, senior advisor (one, three, five, seven) and officer in office, nine years of internship; these are calls. We now have in the Law on State Administration something that stands, too, from the time the law was passed in 2005 – these are special advisers, who are not in the system of state administration, not state officials in office. That's another question now. In particular, you ask the minister, why did he bring his advisor? It's something that has nothing to do with the government. The whole system is, indeed, extremely well imagined, regardless of which party is now an opposition. When I met the system – I like it, it is extremely well imagined. I'm just saying honestly, very frankly, let me say -- I don't know if we're, as a society, able to apply it. The Ministry, whose head I'm headed, has fully applied this system. The ladies sitting here are from the time of Mr. Sabic, Mr. Loncar, I have not changed the status of anyone, i.e. I fully respect the system – state administration. The system's been set up perfectly. The whole system is based on the fact that there is a management, and that the manager and the cabinet are coming and going, and it's phenomenally imagined. So all I can say is that this government, or as Minister, is that I'm really going to fight for the system to survive, to be able to finish all of this by December 31st, and that's why I'm looking for this chance. I can't guarantee anything, but we don't have another system right now. If this system fails, then we need to see - who is then in power, suggest a different system. I'd be sorry, because since 2005 we've been in this system and it would be a shame not to try and get him out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7466	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pesic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here and thank you in advance for taking care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7467	I'm calling on Article 198 and I'm using the minister's presence to ask some questions. I would agree with you when you said this law was designed as one big newspaper. I think it went into effect somewhere, whether September or October 2006 -- right? So, when we find that the date of 2006, when the law came into force, I don't know how you call for him to be unable to apply and that until now you couldn't call the competitions and compete for a change of government. Because there's one staff committee here, as far as I remember that law. Indeed, the law was a newspaper, I processed it for some other reasons, and I saw that the idea was to create a neutral state administration and that you could only bring two people along the party line. Finally, let me add, let's get a professional administration, where you have a commission of competition, a state commission and a public competition coming to power. Therefore, it is one of the main elements – not only to abolish the party state, but, in fact, corruption, because this is how corruption is prevented. Now you're saying that one of the reasons, which is a little contradictory, is that they're now going to be trained for corruption. In fact, by corruption now these people remain in those places, because there is no legitimate reason why the competitions are not announced. If the government stopped working in May, why did the competition commission stop working? There was no reason for that commission to stop. Is she changing, too, and did she, by the way, stop working? So you can't see why this whole law enforcement thing stopped. Secondly, since you've now had these people in position, with this amendment to the Law, why aren't you the ones set up, otherwise they'll be set up, or why did you extend the deadline to December 31st? There's no reason for that. There's something else I need to ask you. Are those who are set up on the party line and who, in any case, cease their duty on May 1st and December 31st, also prepare to participate in public competitions? Do you understand what the question is? Do those who are appointed, whose positions are now becoming positions, and you say, in any case, cease to be tested on 1 May? As far as I was following that law, I saw that, after the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, the elections were called under that constitution, such an agreement was made, and then there was a race at the Ministry that a certain state exam took place to keep people in certain positions. Is that what happened? So they set each other up for commissions. I ask the question, why didn't those who were placed on the party line automatically lose those positions? Of course, I'm also asking a question, because you haven't explained that this should most of all apply to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, why has the ministry been released? If it were the Army and the police, I would understand, because we traditionally know that we have no idea what's going on there, but please explain why the Foreign Ministry?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7468	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ilic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7469	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were all pleased when laws like this came, because something new will happen in Serbia, we will choose people who are professional, who are quality, who will do their job peacefully and who won't worry about whether they are going to be done by a political option, or by some politician who doesn't want to do anything, simply get out of business and change. However, from the experience we have, we are witnessing, in Serbia, the situation that we have only one institution that works and that one, the only institution, is the president of the state, and he is also the president of the ruling coalition's leading party. So, for everything you have to do, you have to get a blessing from the head of state. If you need to make a corridor, you have to ask him, if you need to repeal the concession law that this assembly has voted, if he says – we will repeal the Law, we will undo it; what assembly, it is minor there, etc. Just knowing that the President of the Republic and the biggest authority to decide, which he says -- I will not let the mayor of Belgrade be that and that, I will not let it be that and that, and that is how it all works out, talks about how we can say that we have a party state. In the party state, everything we're fighting for right now, here, the minister suggests, can't live. The very formulation of a party state does not allow it. Take the stories of whatever you want, but I can't figure out that someone can't get in, like, atar, as our people say, G17 plus. If they're in health care, there can't even be a porter waking up and just driving a dream, it's a big commitment. So either you'll be a party, or you can't be in any position, and that's a fact across Serbia, not to talk about other ministries and other stories. These agencies are a major Serbian accident. We're happy, the agencies come, so in the world we work, they're independent regulatory bodies, and the agencies won't be party, they'll be impartial in everything, etc., but the agencies are just a mask for dirty jobs. We've got some tobacco agencies, so agencies for this, like, and there's most of it for those illicit shops. Who are the people who, by God, choose to compete when party people sit on a competition committee and get a warrant who gets elected? So it's all a toy. Let us take the Constitutional Court, elected by Parliament, but whose proposal? Who gives most? So nothing, again, can't. Those poor, out there in corruption, say: corruption is, can't be mayor, and they are silent, can't answer, can't say - the Constitution is broken, no MP can be mayor. We don't have that yet. Then we have some mayors who come and sit here, and their vote depends on everything, they can do whatever they want, and that's why they want to sit here, of course, in Parliament, and they're breaking the Constitution, and the Constitutional Court is silent and not in charge, or they're only going to consider it for a few years. So, the agencies, all this happening in the party state, it's all a mask. To choose the assistant ministers. I wish this was all great. We'd all vote for something like this, but it's one big scam. The party people will come, and, of course, through the contest, to show some degree of democracy. Not to talk about who the counselors are. How can a science doctor's counselor be a high school student? Is it somewhere in the world? What can a government official advise a man who doesn't have a day of work? We now have advisers in the government who do not have a single minute's work experience, and someone advises something, in addition, they have a high school, and, of course, a good salary; they have salaries three to four times as much as the head of individual services. I don't want to count it anymore. I'm very sorry that through this law we want to make some kind of an apparent mask, for God's sake, some great democracy, at this point. We are far from democracy and are increasingly inclined to have one person at the head of the state who decides everything and everything that happens, that one, the only person will solve and resolve. So, Mr. Minister, it's a waste of your efforts, you want it, we respect it, we have listened to you, but in these conditions it's impossible, under the conditions of the entire party state, where the judiciary is party. Last time I spoke, I'll repeat tonight, if you have a decision not to sell the Trepca spa, which is owned by a monastery in central Serbia, and someone says – no matter which court there, sell it, and sell it, it can't. There's always something to sell, we don't know who, or why, or who, or who, and we don't respect our own institutions. So this story is that we're going to put the best, the best, the most capable, not drinking water. We'll set up party people again, but under the cover of some competition, and the party leaders, their advisors and assistants will decide again. Of course, this is a failed thing and therefore New Serbia cannot support and we will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7470	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7471	Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I have come to you briefly, in accordance with Article 104. I think the minister misread me. So let's say that we don't dispute your personal desire to really do what you're trying to do through this law and that we have no understanding of the fact that it really is necessary somehow, even through the amendments to the laws that you're proposing, to enable the smooth work of people in the state administration. It's not in itself a dispute. We have an understanding of the illogical position in which hundreds of people find themselves and it is not in itself controversial. The second question is, the essence of the questions you ask us is, would we be doing the same thing if we were in power? I am sure that the consequences of our policy would be completely different and that it would be enough time to apply this law that the government had a vision of what it wants to do, so, if it leads us to Europe, to ask the question of European capacities in the state administration, so that in those places where there is no such capacity, it will build these capacities. It is very difficult to agree with an argument that says – there was no time for the selection of these people, but there was time for the election of state secretaries, deputy ministers, assistant ministers, etc. It is clear that there was no time for party agreements, which would then allow what happened at that level of state administration to happen at the second, reduced level, because we are criticising you not because you are changing this law, but because in the changes of this law you are asking for additional time to do what, in our opinion, is bad, what you have already done in the meantime, which is the affirmation of a party state, which we should agree to only because it will be a party state for you and the ruling coalition, and not for some other ruling coalition. It may be logical for you, but from the point of view of public interest, it's unacceptable. Secondly, what is a very serious problem with this law is that it leaves aside certain segments of the state administration that we need to reform, exactly, in accordance with the principles on which this law rests, which is not working, so I also mentioned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Interior, and BIA. All these segments of the state administration were exclusively derived from the foundation of the party state. That's why we have foreign policy, which is in the function of a party state, not of public interest, and which is therefore far from what is the public interest of our society. It's the same case at the Ministry of Defense, both at the Ministry of Police, and at the BIA. Today, we changed the Law on travel documents because the government asked for understanding, had no time. No one took responsibility. Someone has to take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7472	The word has been given by the People's MP Milorad Buh, as an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have one in front of us in a series of laws on amendments and amendments to the law, in this case it's the Law on civil servants. Otherwise, in the last four months, we have been discussing amendments and amendments to the law, because the current government, and even the previous government, has not done all legal acts, all legal assumptions to comply with certain legal obligations. For this reason, we now have to go into the system of changes and additions, as is the case with this law. This government has said to itself that it is pro-European and reformal. Now let's analyze what this should mean and how representatives of European institutions view it. The European institutions are asking this authority to reduce the administration, demand a reduction in the allocation for the administration, as the administration is costing a lot, demanding depolition and departisation of the state administration. Now, on concrete examples, we're going to show that this government is not pro-European, but that it does everything in its power not to be pro-European. The number of employees in the state administration since 2000, when they were 8,100, increased to 27,600 in 2004 and in 2005 – slightly less, 24,500, in 2007 – 27,890 and in 2008 – 28,500. In these four months alone, about 500 new workers in the state administration have been employed so far. If we compare it to 2000, almost three times, even more. You see, they're asking you to cut the administration, and you're increasing the administration. Furthermore, according to the budget rebalancing data, this is the only data to be taken, for 2008, for the administration, or for the entire state administration, is 10% of gross social product, or 3,500,000 euros, which is three times more than in Bulgaria, or twice as much as in Croatia. Only for the state administration, given that the state administration is the largest employer, this state is issuing two billion euros. You see, Europe is asking you to reduce the administration – you're not reducing it, you're reducing isolation – you're not reducing it. What's the relationship in depoliticization and decommissioning? We'll probably make the public laugh if we say we're going into the process of departementisation and depolitisation, because there's nothing. Instead of having 10% party people in the state administration, according to the changes that take place in the elections, we have a reverse situation, almost 90% of our people are from parties, and only 10% are people who have been found here or have come as experts and have no party features. These moves can be monitored and analysed by the President of the Republic of the People's Office, so you can see who works in the state administration, in these institutions, to local self-government. As it is at the level of government, so is the local community. We're not making any progress until we make radical changes. The root changes had to be made to the National Strategy for the Development of State Administration, which was brought three to four years ago, but it's important that we satisfy some form, it's important to create a specific project, get to a national strategy, and that's what we've done. We have a formal National Strategy. What does it say? Do we stick to the deadlines, do we stick to the measures provided for in the National Strategy? That absolutely doesn't interest us. Any authority that doesn't care about it is a transitional power. You who are and who are sitting in that current government today must understand that you will eventually be responsible for what you did not do. You don't want to get into the root changes in the state administration. Why? Because it hurts. The national strategy clearly defines the elements by which the development of the state administration will be done, in which way it will be improved, in which way requalification, prequalification of staff will be carried out, in which way and in which time periods the number of employees in the state administration will be reduced. The technical and technological equipment of this administration, the information equipment, etc., these are all the elements we had to discuss here. However, this is of no interest to you, it is important that you satisfy the form, that you employ your workers, and whether they are professional, whether they are able to follow modern trends in this area, or in some other areas where they work and in which they should have the most basic knowledge, you do not care. That's why we have complaints from the IMF, complaints from the World Bank, etc., all those who want, in a certain way, to get involved in all of this, because of your unhappiness, your irresponsibility. We must mention here a statement by Minister Markovic, who said he had a plan to reduce the number of employees in the local self-government, from 22,000 to 12,000. So, the plan of the Ministry of Local Self-Government is that in these, now, three and a half years by 10,000 the number of workers. I'm asking you, based on what? We don't have a strategy, or we have a general strategy that we should all stick to, but I'm asking you, ministers -- why don't you start at the local level, why don't you start from the head, from the advisers of the President of the Republic, the advisers of the Prime Minister, ministers, etc.? On the one hand, you announce a reduction in the administration at the bar, on the other hand, we pump as much in the ministries, through advisors, deputies, assistants, etc. It would be good to stop here, however, for every counselor needs an office, needs equipment, needs a secretary, driver, etc. Leave what won't be Ministers, you can't move, this is individual, partial, you don't have a foothold in the National Strategy. You need to start at the top, as predicted by the National Strategy. At the local level, it will only be repainted, i.e. it will melt into certain measures, activities, and you will end in a month, but first, you are moving from the national framework to the national state, and then from the national institution. When you do the order, normally, you're a persistent man, you'll probably do it at the bar, but 10 grand, compared to hundreds of thousands of others who are currently on the manger, doesn't mean anything at all. You're starting to remount the moment you have a mature strategy, how to reduce not only the number of workers, but also the material costs you're going to study. We must return to the parent law, which came into force in 1.7.2006, almost two and a half years ago, this law has been in force. We have heard from the minister that so far only 50 people have been employed, or 50 people put in place, and a total of 358 should be employed and appointed. We heard from the minister, too, that it is necessary for this procedure for a total of 87 days, because the procedure is complicated and requires a certain time distance in order to complete all pre-productions and actions, in order to reach those decision-making decisions. We have to ask ourselves why it hasn't been done in two and a half years, and ask for responsibility. These people were doing these jobs. They didn't knowingly go into illegal proceedings because we didn't legalize it. Why didn't we install this into certain individual decisions of the authorities and get appointed people in those places? Now we have a situation where we're going to name people who do these jobs. We've been waiting two and a half years. Is that serious? Is it serious that we have a situation to put up with for two and a half years and we haven't done anything to get rid of it? On the other hand, all the other provisions that you have made in the amendments and additions to the Civil Service Act are casual makeup, to cover up everything we haven't done in two and a half years. Article 1, Article 2, which refers to certain initiatives to be done by the Protector of Citizens, etc., are ordinary makeup. There is no need to enter these provisions into the Law, and the SRS has asked that these members be deleted, because within the Law on Civil Servants we have quite enough space to do certain legal actions, that all those workers, or employees who do not work in accordance with the Law, should be punished, disciplined or removed from work, and there is no need to listen to the Protector of Citizens. To cover up everything you haven't done, you insert these things, etc. When we talk about civil servants, we have to mention another law regarding the Civil Service Act. It's the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. As far as this law has introduced certain misunderstandings, misunderstandings, there are even more problems in its application. I'll just mention some. It's from a practical life, from a practical application. We will see that the administration has problems, in the area of pay grade, so we have situations that people with medium and higher professional training in the state clerk's apparatus are drastically damaged after this law came into force on 1 January 2007. He caused confusion, silent strikes, dissatisfaction in the administration, which culminated throughout 2007. The current government covered up all these strikes, all those dissatisfactions, but nothing made these problems go away. What I could hear from the state administration and the administration, is that today there is also a silent strike of people who are unhappy about being damaged. State officials working for many years in the state administration have also been damaged because they have entered the first pay grade, have the lowest incomes and are dissatisfied with their incomes, since they are in the lowest pay grade. In addition, we see problems in the way of paying civil servants and officials who work in the first degree and those who work in the second degree. Those who work in the first degree are, as a rule, mostly in the third grade, compared to those who work in the second degree, who are checkers, who change solutions. People who work in a first - degree procedure do more complex, far more responsible jobs. They're in first grade. Far less received for far more complex jobs and work assignments. These are objections from the practical application of the administration and suggestions of those people who work in the state administration to change it, to make a certain correction in the Law of Salaries and to put it under the public's bat, to organise a public debate, to hear the words of people who work in the administration, to give their own court. You brought it the way you bring it. You've prescribed certain laws, brought it here to the Assembly. It's been so long. Minister, this isn't funny. This is very serious, because the people I talked to told me that the silent strike in the administration and the day-to-day is valid, because they are aware that this can be removed, but there is no good will by the authorities to look, to talk, to take initiatives. They wrote, they asked for correction, you didn't execute it. In the end, the position of the SRS is that we can't enter certain projects this partially. Of the 25 problems you have in this area, solve one, with changes and additions, and don't get into the essence. You haven't solved the issue of reducing the number of state administrations. You have not resolved the issue of a reduction in the funds allocated for these purposes. You haven't solved the question of depolitisation, the departisation of the state administration. Basically, you haven't solved anything. Therefore, the SRS will not accept this law, and, on the other hand, requires you to take yourself seriously, to take the situation seriously, to look at problems in this area, and the salaries of civil servants, especially in a particular structure of state officials, especially those who have spent years and years and have enough expertise and experience and want to help, but because of the way you have now put them in a position to receive far less funds than they should in normal relations, they are dissatisfied. They ask you to make a correction, amend the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies, to correct everything. Unfortunately, it'll probably just be a wishful wish, ours and theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7474	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7475	I had to answer, Mr. Buha, for the very reason that you imputed me to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants. It's part of the total, you said it lightly, so I laughed at that gesture of yours, but the system was imagined in 2005. The law entered into force on 1 July 2006, certain provisions as early as 2005, eight days after its adoption. Then he followed the Law on civil servants and tenants. I was an opposition when that system was imagined. When I became a minister, there was a need to either go into some new system, or try to get that system out. The system is flawed. There's no dilemma. One of the shortcomings is, right now, the position of employees. In general, when it comes to the state administration, there is a strong resistance to the state administration in our public, a lack of understanding of the situation. I love that you mentioned it, and I'm glad you mentioned some things about it. First of all, let me tell you right now that I have an extremely good relationship with unions. We've already signed the protocol twice. We're working very well together. They support the ideas I have put forward regarding amendments to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies. That's the ratio, one to nine, to go one to six. I really understand the position of employees and it's extremely difficult, there's no dilemma. In particular, the tenants start with a salary of around 15.300. That's really desperate. It's nice to talk seriously here, but when you say in public that you should raise the salaries of civil servants, a little who can say that. It is necessary to reduce the range, which, first class for officials in position, to the tenant with the highest salary, is one to nine. It's a huge range. As Ministry, we're going with the reduction initiative to one to six. It's part of our deal with the Union of Civil Service Employees. Secondly, you said the data – 28,000 and I don't know how much. The data they delivered to me from the staff office say 27,600 and something. I don't think it matters at all for this debate. Our government isn't exactly the happiest story. You took some information. This state administration, in the form in which we now have it, was created as a result of the breakdown of several states that existed here. For example, you took 2005, if I'm not mistaken, so you said the 2005 data before they took over the Federal Metal Service, the Federal Hydrometeorological Institute, etc. It's hard to say that only the government was responsible for increasing civil servants. It would be good to analyse how many federal officials have become republican officials. I agree with you, we don't have a clear picture, that's what someone needs to say, or the criteria on which to determine the extent of our state administration. What does it take to determine the perimeter? It is necessary to perform so-called. horizontal and then vertical analysis. The horizontal analysis speaks of the organs, the number of organs, which the body should exist, on what basis, which law, etc. A vertical analysis should determine for each job, and there are about 27,000, otherwise, that is a functional analysis, whether there should be, which is a job description and whether an executive is enough for eight hours of working time to do the job. We don't have that kind of analysis right now. The World Bank has been offering assistance to carry out such an analysis. This is measured by some large figures, etc. In order for anyone to access that analysis, it really takes one continuity. I suppose my predecessors couldn't access those analyses either, in a situation where governments fell, or when the federal state went missing. What I can tell you is that we are negotiating with the World Bank, but at this point we are not prepared to take that risk. We're going to try to separately work on individual ministries and, for now, in the system of granting consent to human resources, we're controlling the number of employees in the state administration. It's not as dramatic and tragic as it looks in our public. The finance ministry data says that in total public spending, the officials you mentioned take about 1%, so the issue of the national administration's dramatics is not as much as it looks in our public. The key problem of our state administration, I believe, is its incompetence on the labour market. This incompetence leads to a lack of sufficient quality personnel, and this later leads to a lack of quality of government. As Minister, I see it as a key problem for our state administration – incompetence in the labour market, precisely because of what you mentioned, which is wages. Now it's completely impossible to talk about wages when we're in the situation we're in. It's hard to say, let's raise our salaries to the state administration. So, very frankly I told you. You asked why local self-government? Because we have one criterion here. That criterion is too much of a party system and we can see how many administrations were employed. For example, Belgrade's city municipalities had too many party systems and almost twice as many employees as they do now. The city halls used to do this before 1995. The colleagues who served as president of the municipality know it. You've been following this issue. A lot more business than they are doing now. After the amendments to the statutes, in 1995 and beyond, Belgrade was constantly centralised. So, from 1995 to 1998, we can follow the trend of centralisation of Belgrade. The number of employees in local self-government grew when we started a multi-party system, changes in government, one power, other power, third power. It doesn't mean that all people were bad, but it just happened, even under the pressure of the crisis. When I mentioned the question of employees in local self-government, some say, "Where could I hire people, there's no one to do anything, so there are in municipalities." Why did I mention the question of local self-government? Some local self-governments have self-initiated social programs and have succeeded as a municipality of Parachin. She really did a good social program and managed to keep that number of employees at a relatively low level. I mentioned the Sabac, as an administration that has very few employees compared to the number of inhabitants. The criterion which, in parallel practice, and with us, would fully meet the needs of the job is one to one and a half changes compared to the number of inhabitants. We are preparing a law that will determine in detail these criteria and which, practically, any future employment, i.e. a regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of these jobs in local self-government, would be subject to government control, so that within a period of four years after the law was passed, so I said that it was badly interpreted in the news, we could say that we are going towards a reduction trend, from the current 22,000 and something, perhaps to 12,000, or 14,000, which would correspond to this – one to one and a half percent. We can't say that there's just the number of employees, there'd be other criteria: the configuration of the terrain, the resolution, whether it's organized as one or more administrations and so on. In view of this, at this point we can freely say that we have one number of people who are excess in local self-government. My proposal is to set aside a billion and 200 this year for severance in local self-government units. To that we can add what every local self-government is prepared and able to give in terms of severance. I claim that we would have, voluntarily, far more interested than these billions and 200 million would cover severance in the year for departure, far more interested, because these would be good conditions for leaving work in local self-government units. That billion and 200 this year, in the following year, would relax the budget for about three and a half billion, as the total fund is paid to local self-government units of 35 billion, provided by the state. We could continue this program in the next five years, after the adoption of this law. The programme over the next five years would lead to this number of 12,000 to 14,000 employees and would probably generate a total profit of around 42.5 billion dinars, which is the current budget deficit. That's why we started with local self-government, because we have criteria that are far easier to apply than what would be a criterion if I came here now and told every minister – let's cut 15%. Everyone sitting here, all parties, more or less, have been participating in the government, in some ways, in some times. I think a lot of people are aware of how impossible it is to treat this casually, even though it was one successful attempt at pre-government, where they went to a 10% reduction. This reduction has been practically analyzed already in the following year, just because a reduction is not done based on functional analysis, but has been done so – let's reduce 10%. It's analized in next year. That's why we started with local self-government. Believe me, it's absolutely not that reason -- that's where we can, that's where we have the power. We've got some kind of parameter here. It could be done on a campaign basis here, but I don't believe it, I think it's always analized next year, any such reduction. It's always next year that it actually meant just filtering, some went away, and then some others were brought in, and then it came down to it. As far as this Ombudsman is concerned, we have, apparently, a different view; you have the amendment, and I think Mr Martinovic also has. I don't think the law gives space at this point to discharge a civil servant from office, that's my opinion. We have the Numerus Clausus and in the Labour Act, which is subsidized, we have the Numerus Clausus in the Civil Service Act. If the government had decided on such a thing, perhaps in some work dispute, such a dispute would have been lost. On the other hand, I think it's good and popular that there's a very clear signal that the Guardian of Citizens can directly ask the government. Whether or not a government will respect it, it is a matter of a general political culture and of the pressure the public puts on the government in a situation where the Citizens' Protector asks that some civil servant be relieved of his rights because of disrespect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7476	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, the application for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the SPS-JS, the DSS, the NS, the LDP and the ZES. We're moving on to a debate according to the word applications in the principled search. The first to be declared is MP Zoran Kasalovic, after him, MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7477	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Civil Servants offers only nine members, so it is relatively short, which does not mean that there is no need for a thorough review and a longer debate. My ambition is, above all, to express very briefly and clearly the position of the SPS-JS Parliament Club, the view of why we will vote in favour of this amendment law and the additions of the Law on civil servants. First of all, we will vote, because we are convinced that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants offers the solutions they have for the essential purpose, first of all, to warn of a possible crisis in the work of the state authorities due to the currently envisaged current solutions in the Law on State Servants. We believe that such solutions do not, indeed, have any other message, no government, no resolution ministry, in terms of creating a party state, or some kind of party similarity, or some messages, but that it is quite pure, pragmatic solution, caused by the fact that the previous government lost its mandate, or authority, in March of this year and that it is quite logical to extend the deadline to 31. 12. In 2009, in terms of calling public competitions, too, and for the termination of the term of office, whose jobs are practically becoming positions at the moment. It was done in Article 5. In this way, the implementation process is ensured in accordance with the new regulations and, I say, prevents possible delays in the work of individual state bodies. Also, given that there are certain dilemmas about the application of Article 127. The Law on Higher Education was resolved by giving authentic interpretation of the National Assembly, under Article 127, paragraph 1 and Article 2 of that Law, assumptions were made for harmonising the conditions for performing certain tasks in the authorities of the State administration, when, as a condition, high or higher education is foreseen, and we consider this a pragmatic solution. There's been enough talk here about it. Should this be added to the proposed solutions in Article 4, where certain responsibilities of staff management services are provided, which, in addition to one general professional training, should pay particular attention to the organisation of professional training of employees in the field of combating corruption, provide for the implementation of certain recommendations by the country's anti-corruption group in the Council of Europe, which is also good. In addition, Article 1 of this proposal creates a legal assumption for the resolution of civil servants from the position if the authority or body responsible for the setting up of civil servants accepts the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protector for its resolution. In short, for these reasons, the position of the SPS-JS Parliament Club is that in the voting day we will give our voice to these proposals for a solution, therefore, to amend and supplement the Law on Civil Servants.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7478	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7479	The Civil Service Act is a classic example of how 'the road to hell can be paved by good intentions'. Indeed, the intention was good, the whole concept was launched as early as 2003, in order to depolitise the state administration. Good concept, European practice, and especially the idea of professional people and real professionals being in the right places. As all of this has been implemented in reality, it is already seen from the fact that time again is needed to extend the deadline for the application of this law until 31 December 2009. The fact is that only 50 people were placed in 398 positions, with a wave at a time when the prime minister was Dr Vojislav Kostunica. It is not possible to justify a delay in the application of this law for the depolitisation of the state administration only by technical problems and procedural reasons affecting the fact that a job is required for 87 days. It will rather be that in the atmosphere of party deployments with competitions, which are no longer pictured, but in images and similar persons, there is no motivation for young professionals to fit into the staff of state administrations and thus cement the professional future with the party label. As a psychologist, it is particularly important and ideally proper to have a staff management service, which takes care of, among other things, the psychological status of the capacity and the potential of a person to do such an important job as, mahogany, the affairs of the state administration. This service performs the tasks of education of civil servants, and especially, let's say, in an area that is important to us now, which is the fight against corruption. The problem is that obviously there is a serious gap, you could say, even a break-in, between the well-intentioned concept and the abuse in practice. In the case of three appointed civil servants, it'll become clear what I'm talking about. Boza Djelic, if he were not the minister and vice-president of the government, would even be sympathetic to his hasty and disdainfulness. Perhaps instead of such a serious function, he should have been given the position of Minister of Joy, as a person in the role of Serbian President would have been a phenomenal president of the country of beauty. Young people made a funny move a few days ago. Since visa waivers have the same fate as the "Yugo" convertible, which, in turn, Minister Djelic recommended to the citizens as a car of the future, have suggested that the lucky winner Djelic give his "Yugo" convertible. On that occasion, a prize game was organised, with the following question – how will Božidar Djelic's new pronunciation for the next delay in visa waiver for Serbian citizens: a) - global warming; b) - bird flu, v) – shortage of spare parts for the 'Yugo' convertible? So much for the Minister of Science and the Vice-President of the Government, who is, in fact, an appointed civil servant. By the way, I don't know if you heard a new joke, my friend told me earlier. Why do they call God Djelic Obama? Because he steals both hands. The next case of a civil servant is Mladjan Mr. Dinkic, Minister of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister, who acts in a psychological sense as a spider killer. First he knits his nets everywhere there's money, his tentacles are in all segments of social power, and eventually he destroys and eats not only those who have fallen into the net, but also those with whom he's been building the network. If it's not Baron Minhauzen's syndrome or, professionally speaking, the pseudology of fiction, because he lied about free actions, the social programme for the flag workers, who are allegedly going to take over the Fiat, the jobs, the ski resorts and the sniveling on the Old Mountain, then it's about pure arrogance and haughtiness, since this appointed civil servant is knowingly and deliberately lying, promising and not taking responsibility for the promised, nor for the actions taken. He spent money on Mobtel, Slave Houses, the third operator, even two billion and 260m euros spent on a pre-election campaign. So expensive a campaign is hard for Obama himself, out of control. He has now announced a spectacular arrival and an incredible investment of all these banks, with a comment that this is proof of the stability of the Serbian market. Otherwise, this spectacular City Bank has lost 20 billion dollars in the last 20 months and, with all the help of the state, will surely be dealing with a loss by 2010. Is that a great investor for the Serbian economy? It could be a good investor for the Youth, who prefers a 3,500-euro "Colmar" wardrobe, while the people cut their eyes off from Chinese goods. Dinkic believes the very assessment, the subsequent and unnecessary, paid by the people by 500,000 euros, the 'Dilloyta', which was made by a price method, which leaves quite enough room for manipulation. In August, the International Energy Organisation of Washington made an assessment of the worldwide market trend in 2008 and 2009. Prices are divided into three groups. A pessimistic, 100 dollars per barrel, basic – 110 dollars per barrel, optimistic – 124 dollars. The 'Dilloyta' percentage was made exclusively based on this optimistic price. In case Dinkic's obstruction succeeds and there is a "Gasproma" drop, the new buyer would be entitled to a new estimate, as the price of an oil company depends directly on the price of oil. How much would NIS be worth today, if the price of oil on the world market is $60 a barrel? Part of 51% of NIS would be worth something below 200m euros. In August, the value of Gazprom was estimated at 35 billion euros. If they did an estimate using the "Dilloyt", Gazprom would be worth 80 billion euros, and if the Gazprom estimate were to work at today's oil price, it would be worth 14 billion euros. A small range of 14 to 80 billion. In the end, if the Young One continues the obstruction, as well as the concession, we will be in a position for the Russians to give up, to lose 200m euros, with the absence of a master gas pipeline and without the storage of natural gas sources. We can only assume that the news isn't bad until the end. They may be bad for the people and the state, but not for the civil servant concerned, because there is justifiable compensation for a job well done sabotage an important state project. With this gas price rise, it seems that the younger one plans to warm up on the skis, and to us ordinary mortals he recommends heating on the mental orgies of trust in his honorable Mirosinka's word. The third, but not the last appointed government official, from a mile called 'balerina', with previous recommendations from the ministry of defence advisers, is sports and youth minister Snezana Markovic-Samardzic. You just don't know who he cares about anymore, sports or youth. Now among the young is a popular curse: "May the ballerina have protected you." After Milorad Cavic, leaving the country for desperate training conditions, Ivana Spainovic, world junior jump champion, Miroslava Najdanovski, national swimming recordr at 50m 100m breast, as well as Ivan Lenđer, European junior champion and world vice-sampion in 50m and 100m dolphin style. In budget rebalancing, zero dinars were set aside for sport and youth. What kind of message is that to young people and athletes? Affirm yourself about your cost in the world; if you become world faces, then you will come to take pictures with political owners and faces in the election campaign. What did the president of the New Serbia Economic Council, who, as a party on Sunday, November 16th, has already asked for the resignation of the Minister of Sport and Youth, what will Milorad Cavic, Jelena, Ana, Nole and all those children whom they became idols, when we have 23 ministers, a crowd of deputies and assistants, the president of the peacemaker and prime minister of non-plyers?- I'm sorry. If these three were set up and celebrated with their actions, how can we believe that those they name, choose for their world, will be naked professionals. Goals – perhaps, and professionals – are difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7480	The People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7481	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as a political party relying on our country's historical experiences, I think it is necessary to say what a national and state strategy was at a time when Serbia was led by right, victorious and state-of-the-art Serbia and with regard to civil servants. After the Second Serbian Uprising, and the most beautiful go to the then state officials, he wrote to Professor Slobodan Jovanovic, an invitation was made to all learned Serbs from the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, first of all, from today's Vojvodina, to come to Serbia, to help Serbia create the foundations of state institutions. Many responded, came to Serbia, left good positions, started to create state institutions, met with a number of problems, with the dukes, the Ustasha winners, who wanted to retain power for themselves, the state administration itself. They met cultural differences, and because of their appearance and curiosity, the people called them "Germans" and "Swabs". I think it's time we remembered these Serbs today, dominantly, today's Vojvodina, because they laid the foundations of today's state administration. What was the government like back then? Absolutely, depoliticized. The illiterate Milos Obrenovic, realizing all the need to have professional and apolitical staff in the state administration, sent a future Serbian elite to school in Paris, London, Vienna, Rome, Trieste, Milan, and brought fully European ideas on the way back to Serbia. It is no wonder, then, that the dinar was stable at the time, that the Serbian state was constantly expanding, and there was no concern that our intellectual elite would become someone to carry out foreign intelligence tasks, on the contrary. Of course, we all know what it was like in the one-party system. Someone here said that even a porter couldn't have been someone who wasn't a member of a political party. In the 1990s, we asked for the depolitisation of the state apparatus, for state officials to be what they used to be in the Kingdom, the Principality of Serbia, or what they are today in EU countries. The intention of this law on amendments and additions to the law is good. I think that without this law, there have been very rare examples that, first of all, I think of ministers or prime ministers, in a really negligible number, of people who were dominant professional personnel, but these are rare exceptions. The rule was that it was an absolute political and party state administration. The legislator's intention is absolutely good, the SPO will support it, absolutely, all the problems we will face in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7482	The People's Messenger Slobodan Maraš has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7483	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, LDP, regardless of what, of these three amendments that are scheduled, supports two, will not be able to support this law. We agree completely, i.e. it is not disputed that the public measure imposed by the Manchester should be the reason for the termination of the employee's employment relationship. It is not disputed either, however, that this third change is a problem of delaying the deadline for the appointment of officials. We had it in front of us in 2007. It looks more like this to me, when the second Kostunica government proposed this, it was basically opening up a space for hiring and receiving personnel from the DS, which then entered that government. Now this seems to me like opening up space for those who, after that government, or the previous Kostunica, have now re-entered the government. But what's very interesting about it? You are certainly aware that there is a national integration programme, a draft, which is very often praised by Mr Djelic. We have repeatedly asked for it to come before the MPs, however, it has not yet arrived. I'd be free to quote some parts, so let's see how much that applies to this factual state. A quote from the EU National Integration Programme Draft: "The Law on State Employees creates conditions for the creation of a professional, responsible, politically neutral service system and provides for the depoliticalisation of an entire governance level in the state administration, as it provides for a category of civil servants in place. State officials are represented by the Government or other law by a certain authority, but before that, they must pass an electoral procedure, more specifically, a competition, conducted by a competition commission, in which their professional competence for a particular position is checked in the position for which they competed in the authorities of the administration. As part of the ministries, in special organisations, government services, political officials are completely missing. '"This would be perfect if it were. We now listen here, minors, everyone repeats, all political parties – depolitisation, departementisation, etc. I think we're a long way from it. We have strong feuds here, but it is disastrous when the president of a party who was in power until yesterday, two mandates, and sat with some who are in power today, and I think of the president of New Serbia, comes out here and talks about how it is against, that is, how the departementisation and depolitisation must be done, how they are divided into feeds, etc. Mr. Ilic sat in that government until yesterday and did nothing to make this right. Mr Ilic said we do not respect these state, or independent institutions, such as the audit institution, the Corruption Council, etc. Just remember what he did to that unfortunate Mr. Shabic when he asked him to deliver contracts and annexes of the concession treaty, what a man survived then, what a dictionary it was and what a rejection it was. You are here in an explanation, which is also interesting to note that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia found that the government to whom the mandate could be suspended by law only until the election of a new government, and the Law on Government prescribed that the government to which the term of office was suspended could only carry out current tasks and that it could not place civil servants in positions within the authorities of the state administration. We were all witnesses that two technical governments, so governments that were between the two rounds, or between the elections, when the government called the elections, or president of the assembly, made very important decisions. One made a decision on the concession of the highway, for the highway Novi Sad-Pozega, or Horgos-Požega, and the other government adopted an oil-gas agreement with the Russian Federation. I don't understand how some of these big and significant decisions could have been made by technical governments, but when it comes to the entanglement of their personnel, it had to wait for a long period of time. In fact, 19 months has been given here for a deadline to do this job that started in 2006, or, as you say, which was designed in 2005. We think this is very bad. When we talk about departisation and depolitisation, we can really lift a high forehead here and say, "The Liberal Democratic Party has shown this on the case of the city of Belgrade." You have heard that the two city secretaries, which we have proposed, or two council members, or as they are already called in Belgrade, are persons who are not members of the LDP, but are members of another party, but we believe that they are professional enough and have all the qualifications to do such a job. We would like to see that even those who criticise, specifically, this bill, show it at least once on their own case. What you said when you responded to Mr. Jovanovic, he certainly speaks best of these changes – if you were in opposition too, and you would criticise this. I think it's the best commentary of these changes. I say, we would support the first two, that, in principle, is not at all controversial, but this third, delaying the deadline for the appointment of officials, in our opinion, is very controversial and therefore we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7484	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, if he is in the hall. It's not. After him, MP Aleksandar Pejcic, and after Alexander Pejcic, MP Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7485	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, Your Honor, we have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants. For the sake of the public, I must remind the citizens of Serbia that the reform of the state administration began in 2003, when the first government of Vojislav Kostunica came to power. In 2004, a strategy was adopted on the reform of the state administration, and this law was passed in 2005, which we are talking about, the Law on civil servants. And look at the paradox, the current law minister didn't vote for that law because he was an opposition. That's how circumstances change. Now it stands firm behind this law, saying that this law is extremely good, which we have been saying, even then, that it is a quality and modern European law. The promoter at the time was Zoran Loncar, the then state administration minister and local self-government, who was guided by certain principles when he proposed the law. These are principles of depoliticalization, decentralisation, professionalization, rationalization and modernisation. At the time, all European institutions estimated it to be one quality law and that Serbia has one of the most qualitative laws in the region. Even this law was implemented in some ministries, in the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, as the minister said earlier and was implemented at the Ministry of Faith. These two ministries are small, but the law was implemented in those ministries. What did we get by this law? We've got state officials, we've got tenants. State officials shall be divided into civil servants in office and executive jobs. The minister said earlier that 358 positions were not filled, he also said that 36 were employed in the previous government, and this government hired 14, but there is a legal vacuum and legal problem, which was discussed by colleagues. What is the legal status, six months, of people who have been appointed to these functions, working on these functions, on which grounds they receive money, when this law, supplementing the law, has not been passed, and no competition has been carried out? It is precisely this law that wants one thing to be covered, and that is a violation of the Constitution by the government, the Ministry, by the Staff Management Commission and thus, through these cosmetic changes, the Minister of State Administration wants to push this thing through, to retroactively call a competition for all these positions. Otherwise, many political parties did not respect this law. We have an example of the National Employment Service, where competitions have been conducted, however, the G17 plus has replaced all directors of the National Employment Service six months after the competitions, so we can say that certain political options and do not respect this law on civil servants, although they voted for it. What I want to talk about, because I was the district chief, I see here, and my colleague, Guriæ, are the administrative districts and the status of chiefs in the administrative districts. Certain administrative districts, at the moment, don't even have a district chief, believe me. The chiefs of the service run the administrative districts. For these very reasons, since the competitions were not carried out in the administrative districts, it was until 1 May 2007, which was extended until 1 May 2008, until today we do not have the head of administrative districts. The heads of the administrative districts of the Democratic Party of Serbia resigned, the government did not react, as it was required to call the competitions linearly for all administrative districts. In total, we have 29 administrative districts in Serbia's territory, five in Kosovo and 24 in Serbia. So, administrative districts don't have district chiefs. What I was going to suggest, Minister, is that I expected, compared to these amendments and additions to the Civil Service Act, to give a little more authority to the county chiefs. I expected you to also bring the district regulation and thus satisfy that obligation from the Constitution, Article 94, to develop every part of Serbia evenly regionally. In fact, I thought that, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Economy, you should focus a certain fiscal policy on the county's budget. It means that such a regulation is adopted so that the environments can finance certain development projects in their environments. I come from Jablanic County, from Leskovec. You were just talking about local self-government and in some interviews you listed, even, that Leskovac is a bad example. It's a bad example. As far as local administration is concerned, we have about 750 employees in local self-government in these municipal administrations. I'll remind you that the European standards that 1,000 inhabitants come for one bureaucrat. That would mean Leskovac has about 200 bureaucrats in those local administrations somewhere. However, the fact is that reforms should be carried out in local self-government. You just said that certain legal acts would solve it. We support it anyway. So, the essence of this law is that the "small door" competitions for positions are being held, which this ruling majority will certainly vote for, I am convinced. And you yourself said that the law is good and that you will insist on these principles of modernization and depoliticalization, which we like here; we support this thing about the Simeon and the professional preparation and corruption. What I'm saying is that a bad principle and a bad way to work is what you've tried to justify both the government and your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7486	The word has a minister, Mr Milan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7487	Dear colleagues, I must speak to an esteemed colleague, to refer to this exhibit. It would be easier for me to take this kind of exposure from any other party. I just prescribed a prescription we made together last year, and last year I received a prescription from Zoran Balinovac, director of the Legislative Secretariat. I just can't accept it. Of course, what did I say – Zoran Balinovac? So that's the man who performed that function in front of the DSS, I know, because I was a member of the previous government. So, don't say anything, we don't drag anything into the little door, we go with the feedback. The same thing was done in that government where we sat together, the same recipe, the same conclusion of the government, the exact same, signed conclusion of the government that we adopted together. I'm not saying it's good, it's just, it's just that it's not right that you're criticizing me right now and that you're mentioning the Ministry's responsibility when you know that it has nothing to do with the truth. I say again, that any other party has said it, but this is the invention of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I really think that, in that sense, your exposure comes out of order a little bit, specifically, out of one correctness. Otherwise, as far as the rest of things are concerned, I completely agree with you and I will make sure that this system finally comes back to life. But I say again, I'm optimistic, but moderate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7488	The People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and after him, the Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say, Mr. Minister, that you have tried to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Civil Service Act with certain reasonable, rational solutions. That's one side of the story. However, there are many proposed solutions in this bill, which, from the point of view and from the point of view of rationality, cannot be accepted by the MPs of the SRS. At least two reasons are very important, which is why I assume you've proposed amendments and additions to this law. The first, as you stated, is Article 20(1). The Act, on the Protector of Citizens – so that it could be applied in those cases where a working body, or body or body that can relieve a civil servant accepts the public recommendation of the Protector of Citizens and, on the basis of that recommendation, adopts a certain act on the discharge of a civil servant. Here is the question, in the opinion of the SRS, Mr. Minister, are these reasons for the resolution of a civil servant, which are stated in the law, real, are they justified, that we are not talking about politicisation, because this is about very high, places, as you say, in the positions of people working in these places in the state administration? Another very important reason, a very problematic reason, which is grateful to discuss with all topics in the National Assembly, is the country group's recommendation on the fight against corruption, which took place at the 38th plenary session, or meeting, in Strasbourg, at a meeting from 9 June to 13 June. If we have in mind the existence of corruption, and in health care, in some people, I don't say in general for everyone, in education, in the state administration, we know that corruption is very developed, that the crime, that the elements of corruption exist everywhere – it should be a struggle of power, including your governments, in order for the state, perhaps, to stabilise itself in economic resources, and in the functioning of the state administration, and local self-government, to move forward. However, in certain cases there is a replacement of thesis – if we want some former high-ranking state officials, if we want to go to the government, and there is no such thing here, then give money. In the case that I mention, in the case of former state officials and former, some, members of the SRS, there were applications – here is the money, come to power, but in return break down the Serbian Radical Party, that such as it was until the end of August cannot come to power. Where it is fortunate that this country group recommendation from Strasbourg came much earlier, it may have a positive impact on that group of people, former members of the SRS, on the lack of corruption for politics, for turning back, selling and politics, and ideologies, and on programmes, people and friends in the SRS. In this recommendation, the country group is said to be applying a special programme and a mandatory training programme in the fight against crime. What's the special program? It should be quality laws, criminal law, above all, and the application of that law. Because the Criminal Law is taxing all crimes, with a special description of the elements of the existence of these crimes. Apply Criminal Law. Why do you need special training to fight corruption? Is it psychological-psychiatric training - to appeal to civil servants and other people in the state who do not steal, not to receive bribes, to work honestly, to work in accordance with the law? There's no appeal. With the existence of material bases, material bases and the application of laws, i.e. criminal-law sanctions, above all, the existence of corruption will be largely eliminated. You are predicting this bill of law and the dismissal of civil servants for a sentence of more than six months, at least six months, as it stands in the law, the final disciplinary measure of termination of employment – if it does not satisfy the extraordinary evaluation, now, this may seem a little confusing or clumsy, as foreseen by the law – "unconstitutional". What if, in parallel, twice, three times or more, he didn't satisfy a particular checkup, an emergency check by a civil servant? What happens in that case to that civil servant if he doesn't get rid of it? I suppose it's logical that a solution, or a public recommendation, can be made, on this basis, by the Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interests and the Protectors of Citizens! It is very important here that there be justified reasons and their delivery in the existence of this public recommendation. Mr. Minister, in the end, because of the time of the debate that belongs to the SRS, you are concerned, we know from the SRS, from certain examples, and it is very positive, for what happens in the functioning of the state administration, as well as local self-government. Here, I'm asking you something from the pay phone. There has been a blockade of certain people in the functioning of local self-government in Aleksinc, and not from anyone legally elected, but an illegal president of the municipality, a blockade of the functioning of local self-government, which will probably take a long time. After the introduction of temporary measures, emergency elections will be called, there will be a total blockade in the functioning of the municipality, and the winter period will go. I've never heard of anyone who's at the top of a system of government, even if it's local government, obstructing, blocking, causing a crisis in the functioning of that government. Why don't you ask around about what's going on in Alexinco? Of course, it's about an ex-SRS member. On the one hand, it receives a nominal amount of salary that is higher than the pay of the MP, in real terms is much higher than the salary of the MP, and does not have to come to Belgrade to receive that salary, and, on the other hand, it does not do its job, it does not fulfil its obligations, it does not carry out its duties. You should worry about that case, and all other cases where there are such examples, of course, besides the authorities of the state administration, where there is a lack of local self-government in a normal, legal way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7490	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic has the right to reply to the presentation of MP Aleksandr Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7491	If, by any chance, someone else had been given information about the number of employees in the local self-government, I would remain abstention and not replicate. In this case, for the minister to know, it is not the exact information of Alexander Pejcic that there are more than 745 people in the impasse local self-government, he said. I can tell you that's information from the yellow company, which is very often focused on press conferences in the impasse community. The president of the municipality's Assembly, Živojin Stefanovic, has just denied the information at a press conference and stated that he has exactly 549 employees in local self-government. That's all for the public and Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7492	The People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, followed by MP Goran Mihajlovic. New Serbia's parliamentary group has two minutes and 30 seconds at its disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7493	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we have before us a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Servants. I don't think it's a good idea for us to extend some of the laws we've passed. The New Serbia parliamentary group will not be able to support this law. And in the course of a set of law on justice, on the Anti-Corruption Agency and other laws, we have repeatedly warned from this speaker that whenever the day comes that law should be applied, a proposal will come from the government to simplify the application of the law. It became a practice to do so, and that's all because it simply ran with some laws that were pretty bad, quick, there was no public debate. It is likely that judges in Serbia should be calm, as it will not be applied by 2010; when the day comes to apply, it will also be delayed. I don't know how you're going to solve, in my opinion, a paradoxical situation when it comes to this law. You've got state officials in a position where they've been elected under the law that we're now prolonging and we've got positions that we're going to have in a year and a half. By 2007, or early 2007, there was a lot of competition. The government of Dr Vojislav Kostunica has begun to apply this law. There's been a set-up, probably about a 50-acre set-up, and then it stops. Why do you care? Unacceptable excuses are that there were two technical governments in the meantime. If there was a technical government, it does not mean that life in Serbia should stop. We know how the competition is done. The competition is done by having the staff management office call the competition. In this competition, someone from staff management, someone from some professional organization, say, Kirilo Savic, and one representative of the organisation where the director is elected. If so, we can rightly consider it a desire for authorities to appoint their directors, and then these directors will be appointed faces and they will determine who will choose them later in the staff management service. I think it's unacceptable, if we want to professionalise, if we want something that's good in this law, to completely separate from the party's appointments of some professional people who will do business independently of the executive authority that will be. So we have one big problem. The problem is big, and yesterday I told you that, when we had consultations, the problem of freezing functions. That's a big problem. You'll have people who are extremely professional, like some engineers, doctors, lawyers, etc., who won't be able to accept these kind of officers in positions, because they can't freeze their status, because when something passes, they have to come back, and they have nowhere to go, because they won't have frozen status. There is another big problem – which are extremely small salaries and large differences between directors of special organisations and officials, tenants etc. You have paradoxical situations that are personnel, e.g. Good engineers, in some business organizations, completely deprived by a small salary of 30,000 dinars, or 40,000 dinars, and with this director of a special organization has a higher salary, a minority, and from the prime minister, a salary of 150 to 200 thousand dinars. These are the illogicalities for which you have to find ways to correct them, because even when you agree and increase, just as we have a pension problem, if it increases in the same way, with the same percentage, it turns out that the director gets a salary that is practically at the level of the employee of a high school student's salary in some particular organization. So it has to go towards getting people with medium professional training, good experts, independent counselors, closer, precisely, to make a move here. If you do the same way, at the same rate, adjust prices, you will have one day, as you say today – ranges nine or six times, and up to 20 times the difference. So that's unacceptable. Here comes the 31st of December 2009, and nothing will move. It is certain that we will seek the laws again, we will again seek the prolonging of the application of this law. You have no reason not to start the competition. The Staff Committee and the Staff Management Service should do their job and should choose people who are completely outside of politics, because that is the basic idea of this law, and by no means, when it comes to the application of that law, we should do something that is wrong. So it's totally unacceptable for me to, practically, have absolute authority, people who have been elected under the current law, and some people who haven't been elected at all. I'd just like to ask you, Mr. Minister, if you can tell me, we'll see each other in Parliament these days, how much of the competition has been completed? So the staff management department has finished the job, proposed candidates, and people are not elected today or today in these companies, business organisations. It's the same situation with the ministerial assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7494	The word has a minister, Mr. Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7495	I have to tell my colleague, since a colleague just said that, well, I didn't vote for this law, just what you said was why I didn't vote for that law when the DSS proposed it. I am in a position to defend this law, that this system, which was started then and which I believe is good, I am trying to defend it, to bring this principle to an end. What you said, it's a problem. I don't mind any of the colleagues who wrote this law. I spoke to Mr. Balinovac more than once about these elements that you are now talking about. It is logical that such a radical change, which took place in those 2005 laws, must have contained in itself the illogicalities you are now talking about. If everything that's happened hadn't happened, if we hadn't gone into what the political scene looks like, then one government falls, then the elections, etc., we could probably think in one continuum about changing the law in all the directions you've talked about. Indeed, the law is imperfect. My belief is that it is too ambitious, but it is now a project task and I will try to fulfill this task as if I had participated in the adoption of this law, because I consider my obligation, as Minister, to continue what some previous minister did, but what you stated as observations, I cannot be an objection to me, because I am not the creator of those solutions. I agree that some of these solutions need to be changed to make the system more flexible at this point. With regard to this commission, the head of the authority that is setting up a civil servant decides, of the three proposed candidates, who will come, so that whoever gave a member of the commission has no influence in this regard, the commission does not have that prejudicial influence on who will be appointed. The most defeats the fact that we have the essential scarcity of people who are capable of bringing out the most complex jobs, which require high expertise, and what is right is relatively poor social status. Believe me, a large number of competitions end, among other things, by not reporting enough candidates, or by not reporting enough quality candidates. As far as the specific question is concerned, I will try to give you an answer by tomorrow to the question of how many competitions have been stopped, but again, it is all within the framework of the legal solutions that have been given as such, where the head of the authority may decide not to accept any of the proposed candidates. Personally, I don't think this solution may be the best, but I'm saying, any legal intervention in such a radical change, which was made in 2005, would have to be, de facto, almost like the entire system law, so, from first to last, to make a consequential change of certain things in the law. It's simple, through these laws that have been passed, like threads running through things. There's no intervention on one member. Any intervention would require a very serious analysis and very long-term work. I don't think intervention could just happen. What are the experiences so far, mature is to go, perhaps, into some changes, but I think we should add all the experience to the end and, in the end, see if we can first take out this system and perform the settings, so if we can make the appointments, we can easily do those fine work. Much larger objections are from the very organs, which apply, for example, to the system of progress. We have very large objections to the system of progress, the system of evaluation, etc. I'm saying, I don't want to criticize those who wrote, because they've really done a huge job. It's not easy to radically change the system like these people did, who wrote it, and they, undeniably, possess great knowledge and exceptional expertise. Of course, they couldn't have known how something was going on in practice either, as in the final outcome, it happens in practice. There's a lot more to what you've said, but it's not a topic right now and it can't be at this point of the subject, and at least it can be irresponsible, my and my current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7496	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic, right to replication, pursuant to Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we all agreed that it was a good wish and that the law was good. Now, let's not bend something I said here a little bit. I said that this law, the implementation of this law, absolutely, came into life, some 50 appointments were and that was over a year ago, and then we flew into a few delays. My question and suggestions, exactly – why don't we continue with the competitions normally? In that case, we wouldn't be postponing this law for some future time today. So it's a fundamental observation, and I've been very argumentatively telling you what a wish is, when I said to set up someone from the ruling majority, to get to this commission and make sure that these people are definitely elected. I haven't been able to say that the deputies of some directors and assistants are also elected in the same way. Therefore, the clear thing is that this is where you want to build, practically, a one-party system. It's very dangerous. That's why I'm warning you, as a good lawyer, as a respected minister, that if we want to depolite these bodies, these people that we need to choose from this law, we don't. Do not convince me that if someone is elected after five years, and if someone has had a wish, when another authority comes, someone will probably tell someone - back from that position. We need to clear our minds about this law so we can apply it. That's for sure. It doesn't matter which party is in power. So my absolute message is that we've well imagined this law, it's good, but it's no good that it's being applied multiple times. So if we don't do this which is a simple job, compared to what we'll have when we apply the law to the judiciary and the election of judges, then we'll definitely put it off by 2020, so let the judges feel free to be calm; none of this law that we're going to pass, if we can't solve this simple thing. This is very easy to solve. It's a perfectly clear procedure, it's a perfectly clear law. The law is good, but it's no good that competitions are delayed, application is constantly delayed. We have a discrepancy between the people who have been chosen. Under this law, let's say, in one ministry, or the Ministry, someone was elected by competition, and someone was set up. It's illogical and it's my message, and don't switch to some earlier governments that, basically, there's something wrong. The law is good, but start applying it, not constantly delaying it for all the things I've told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7498	The word is by MP Goran Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted, on 26 September of the current year, to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Bill on Civil Servants, with a proposal to be adopted by an urgent procedure. It has become, apparently, a practice in this assembly that all important laws are passed following a accelerated procedure, and from the arguments given here by the Government says that the adoption of this law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. I don't know what the adverse consequences might be, because we already have the law, and until the new one is passed, it's normal that the provisions of the old law are in force, so we somehow have this government's argument that this would lead to adverse consequences for the work of organs and organizations, but I'll talk about the reasons for urgency a little later, because I think it's something else. Compared to the existing 2005 civil servants' law, as far as I could count, some 14 amendments were proposed. I'm not going to talk about all these members right now, it's the topic of discussion in particular when it comes to amendments, but I still can't not mention a few members who refer to the election in the titles. I'll say later and why, because there's a series of illogicalities that simply can't be related to each other. The changes proposed by the Government are more cosmetic than essential and, in practice, nothing important happens, except that Article 180, which refers to the implementation of public competitions for positions, gives time until 31 December 2009 to carry out appointments to positions, and under the positions, implies jobs where civil servants have the authority to act, to coordinate according to certain jobs. As Mr. Minister said, until September 1, 2008. The government has placed 50 people in position. I don't understand what the reason for this little efficiency of the government is, because, if I remember correctly, you said it was 87 days to resolve one competition, which means that the complexity of the competition process can't be some explanation for this ineffectiveness, because it's not cosmonauts that are chosen, but government members are elected. If 350 people need to choose for 87 days, then calculate how much time it takes just for appointments. I don't think that's a good ad for Friday, because Friday's a matter of trust was proposed to the government, so this statement of yours didn't make the government very popular, but then we'll see about it. As a reason for the adoption of this law on civil servants, the government is three main items. The first is – to avoid conflict with the Law on the Protector of Citizens, because Article 20 of the Law in question provides for the possibility that the Civilian Protector can make a proposal for a civil servant to be resolved from a certain function, which is a newspaper in relation to the existing law, which also envisioned the possibility that a civil servant can be resolved, but due to some serious violations, disciplinary violations etc. The news is that the Citizens' Protector can make one such proposal. The second reason for law-making is the recommendation of the Council of Europe's Group of States to fight corruption, so-called. GRECO organisation, which issued some recommendations in Strasbourg in June 2008, to implement anti-corruption procedures. It seems to me that this is the main reason for the urgent adoption of the law, because it is likely that the owners of Brussels and Strasbourg have ordered it to end as soon as possible, and that is why it was imposed on the staff management service that, as I read from that letter from the Government, organises some courses in which all civil servants would be trained to curb corruption. I ask the Government - is corruption fought by good words and courses, or by applying the laws on corruption, by carrying out the consequences of those who break the law? This creates the possibility that only a declarative and in words the government has been fighting corruption, i.e. since the first day of its mandate, a constant fight against crime has been fought against, but cannot begin the fight against criminals. All criminals remain at large and, worst of all, in power. There's still no real fight, and everything's just in words. If they already want state authorities to have some criteria to choose from civil servants, they have a lot of ways, let them take an example of how they work in Switzerland when they choose bank officials. True, it's not all state organizations, banks are both private and state, but, you see, to get a job at the bank, the ticket is that your two, three, five generations back were bankers and that none of them had embezzled anything. Why wouldn't that also be a criterion for entering state institutions? We have much better ways than to organize courses and fight corruption in courses. The third reason why the Government introduces this law on civil servants is to harmonise the current law on higher education with the old law, which is where we have the intertwination of old and new titles, and Article 127. The law on higher education draws closer to determining what they call it. You see, here, let's say, the members of the 36th to 41st are particularly eye-stitching, for the next reason. The government envisions the following calls for state officials in positions: senior adviser, independent advisor, advisor, junior advisor, associate and junior associate. For the first four titles, higher education is foreseen in the second-degree studies and for the last two – higher education in first-degree studies. It is further said – for senior advisor, independent advisor, advisor and junior advisor, higher education is foreseen at second-degree studies, which means graduate academics, etc. Masters studies, specialist academics, specialist professional and working experience of seven years. I do not understand how one who has completed a new law on higher education, or who is about to finish, can have seven years of work experience. Obviously something's wrong with this article. Also, for an independent advisor, five years of work experience is required, for advisers three, etc., for a younger advisor traineeship. It is absolutely impossible, if the Law on Higher Education was passed in 2005 and if someone had finished under this new law, to have seven years of working experience. It's something that's falling away from a healthy logic. Secondly, they are particularly discriminatory criteria for calling. For example, the choice of calling a senior advisor is required from the face of creative ability, entrepreneurship and a high degree of expertise. I would ask two things, what is meant by these creative abilities and entrepreneurship, and, secondly, who is, in fact, authorized to perform, in some way, measuring these characteristics of candidates, because hypothetically, if three, four, five candidates report to a public competition, they can meet these conditions, formally-legal, but who will assess these abilities, creative, entrepreneurial? However, all the conditions are created that, in this case, the employment of staff by party membership, which was unfortunately the case with the previous law. I don't think there's any movement here, Malten. It's the same for other calls. In the case of a self-adviser, analytical abilities are sought in complex cases. What are analytical skills now? Who can determine which of the advisors is able to apply established methods of work and procedures in everyday situations, etc., not to list. In this case, it takes a much more precise systematization of jobs, not this general and, let me say, smut, a non-applicative qualification, which can be interpreted in various ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7500	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7501	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, the principled approach to the amendments and additions of this law and the LDP's views, in his exposé, was brought out by the president of our party, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm going to ask a few questions, with a fundamental goal of clarifying these controversial matters, concerning the amendments and additions to this law. Of course, I will not have a classical approach that recognizes this parliament, that for those who are in opposition all the laws and priorities are not good, and when they move to the other side, or when they become power, all of a sudden all of the government's proposals are excellent. The fact is, we have forgotten what a constructive opposition means and we have forgotten what a responsible government means. It's actually the principles that LDP stands for. The amendments and additions of this law, approximately, identify three kinds of changes. One represents a public measure to be imposed by the Dolphin when there is a reason for the termination of the employee's employment relationship. That, in principle, is not controversial. Harmonization of the calling is, in fact, a alignment with what we voted for a while ago, and as regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, the introduction of a master's calling. Neither is that, in principle, questionable. There is also a third kind of change that recognises this bill on amendments and additions to the existing law, which concerns the postponement of deadlines for the appointment of officials, and so on. positions. I would also visit representatives of the opposition, as well as representatives of the government, that the Serbian state-law tradition and that it knows the good legislation concerning state officials. Transferred to the current notional meaning of these legal terms, these are civil servants. Not to remind myself that state monopolies, state funds, principles, municipal administrations, which today comes to him by state administrations or public enterprises, have treated these laws. Not to remind myself of what legislation was under the 1888 Constitution, how non-partisan representations, including non-partisan governments, were built by King Milan. It's obviously not an account. According to what I just said, what I was just talking about, I can ask some questions. First of all, why aren't the competitions scheduled and completed in time? Namely, the deadline for conducting the competition was already moved once, when the second government of Kostunica was elected, above all, to create a place for DS representatives, because they then became coalition partners to DSS and parties to the G17 Plus, who had already participated in the government and had their own government officials, and so the government's cake had to redistribute and satisfy the demands and new coalition partner, i.e. DS. Now the deadline is resuming. It will open up space for the state administration, to use a colloquial term, to fill up again with political personnel, this time from an even wider and more numerous ruling coalition. Accordingly, the question is also asked, was it all a question – was it necessary to introduce a retroactive fact of the Law, which the provisions of the Constitution explicitly disputed, and was it necessary to extend it for a full 19 months? I'd like the government's representatives to give, either in their final exposé or when it suits them, answers these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7502	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly for adoption and which we are discussing today, special attention is drawn to the members of the 4th and 5th. Namely, Article 4. The bill is intended to amend Article 158 of the applicable civil servants law, which refers to the Staff Management Service. Paragraph 2 states: "The staff management service advertises job openings in government authorities and services, takes care of the harmonised redecoration of state administrations, advises government authorities on how to manage staff, organises professional training of civil servants, provides professional and technical assistance to the High Official Council, conducts tasks relevant to government policy in the management of staff and conducts other tasks specified by law or regulation of the Government." It is suggested that in this position, after saying, "organises the professional training of civil servants", it adds, "especially in the field of fighting corruption". When this provision is seen, it could be thought that the Serbian government intends to fight corruption. The fact is, we talked much more about it when the Anti-Corruption Agency Act was adopted, that the government in Serbia only finds ways to cover up and increase corruption. The fact that this monster has crawled into all spheres of life and that Serbia, after the degree of corruption, is located only 85th in the world, in society with Panama, Madagascar, Senegal, is not considered at all. The laws are passed, like, harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, but these laws are not in practice applied. Thus, even this painful act of our society - corruption, by writing in this law that civil servants will be trained professionally in the field of fighting corruption, will not be reduced, as the fight against corruption in the state of Serbia is entrusted to an agency controlled by the authorities. Article 5 The proposal for a law on civil servants is proposed to extend the deadline for public competitions for positions and the termination of duties for designated persons whose jobs become positions. The deadline to 31 December 2009 is requested here. It is important to note that this deadline has already been extended once. Namely, the Law on civil servants, which entered into force on 1 July 2006, was foreseen by Article 180(1) to hold public competitions by 1 July 2007. It is also said in recital 2 that the appointed persons whose jobs become positions of duty, in any case, ceases on July 1st 2007. However, the Law amending the Law on civil servants, Article 3, which entered into force on 1 July 2007, extended the deadlines until 1 May 2008, and now, in the light of the new draft law, it states that the previous government had ceased its mandate in March 2008, so before 1 May 2008, and that this is the reason why the public competitions for the appointment had not been implemented. So, from July 1st 2006 to July 1st 2007, there was not enough time, it was not from July 2007 to March 2008, and is now required an extension until December 31st 2009. This request for an extension of the deadline is justified by the number of civil servants' posts in the position to be completed, which is 358, of which 108 procedures have been completed, as well as by the complexity of the competition procedure. As regards the complexity of the competition procedure, the Regulation on the implementation of an internal and public competition for the filling of jobs in the state bodies, the deadlines in which actions are carried out to fill the situation have been specified. Article 19 has defined that the deadline for applying for a public competition begins the next day since the public competition was announced in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" and cannot be shorter than 15 days. Next, it follows a 20-day deadline, which is scheduled for candidates who do not have a state-run expert exam to deliver evidence of a state-run examination. The Regulation does not prescribe time limits for written examinations of training, knowledge and skills and oral conversation with candidates. Also, there is no deadline within which the electoral procedure must be conducted, but from 1 July 2006 until today, there has been enough time for any competition to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7504	The People's MP Zoran Ostojic has the word, followed by the MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7505	Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP wants to reform the state administration. It is one of the conditions of our accession to Europe. In this law we see three intentions. One is the harmonisation of calling, i.e. a degree of professional training with the Higher Education Act. This principle is not disputed, the proposed solutions are not controversial. The second is that the public measure, i.e. a reminder given by the Manuels, is the reason for the termination of the employee’s employment relationship. That principle, too, is not controversial. We express concern about the application of this in practice, when we look at how the Government refers to independent institutions, or agencies. So, for example, with the Information Commissioner, instead of 33, for all seven people, it's similar with the Manchester. We suspect that this principle, which is not disputed, will be translated into practice, i.e. that this recommendation will be respected, future, possible, likely, because, in the end, so far, and when it comes to the Commissioner for Information, and when it comes to the Council for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we have no evidence that the executive authority respects, respects and implements what the independent regulatory body or agencies are proposing. Let's just say it's just our thinking. Maybe it'll change. The third principle in this law is the problem, and that is the delay of the deadline for the appointment of officials, and that, above all, is what the people say, positions are. The proposal to extend the deadline from 31 May 2008 to 31 December 2009 and that this amendment of the Law be applied retroactively is not acceptable to us. We are, indeed, asking citizens the question, why aren't the competitions over in time? We know this law was passed during the second government of Vojislav Kostunica. The competitions were not called then because, conditionally speaking, the election cycles, the referendum, the constitution. Obviously, by not calling the competition, there is room left for the state administration to fill in the new coalition partners. It was the second DS then. We now interpret this extension as a chance to fill the state administration with a new coalition partner, and these are the socialist gentlemen. That's why we think this deadline and extension to 19 months is a strengthening of the party state. As you know, I will repeat once again, to determine the material, the LDP is fighting for the decommissioning of the party state and for the professionalization of the state administration. This isn't the solution. This is seen in the European Commission's 2008 report, where for the first time the European Commission has questioned the capacity of state administration, and the main reason for this is that no professionalisation has been carried out, and these solutions, of which this is one of the examples, have been extended for centuries by the party state. We therefore regret that this law is no longer fully in line with European expectations, citizens who voted in the elections, because the LDP wants to protect the interests of these citizens and to represent them, and in this case we will not be able to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7506	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him the People's Messenger Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7507	This is one of the laws on civil servants where we warned on time what would happen. Just so that those who follow this transmission, that's the law, with those archaic names, from the time when the popular comedy "Miss Minister" was in Serbia. As I recall, the DS had objections at the time, but it seems to me that in the end, however, they were a little fond of that concept of the law. Of course, there are several kinds of these changes here. The first is to comply with the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, which is an acceptable reason for the change, although, among us, it was not so necessary, given that at the end of 2007 an interpretation was given here for the equalization of these titles based on master studies and these normal school titles, diploma and calling from the time we studied. It's not a problem, it's an interpretation, in a way, it's enough not to make any bigger problems in practice. If change is already being made, then it is acceptable, because this law needs to be agreed to suit properly. Mr. Markovic, I think, however, that you will have to intervene with some amendment, you may have missed something in this crowd that I have suggested to you, as regards the original Article 78(1). To make it right now, you'll have to give the amendment; you know what it is, not to talk now, there's no need to convince you. Meanwhile, a law has changed, and the name of the organ has changed, and the logic of things is understood. Speaking of which, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that there seems to be an illogicality here. Article 78(1) formally-legislatively refers to the reasons for the resolution of a civil servant in a position; the first point is said – due to the termination of a working relationship, if his working relationship ceases, then for reasons. So the termination of employment is the main reason why, as a result, a resolution comes. That's what it says in the first place. Now there are reasons to be more specific, cases when it happens. Here you can state one case, a publicly published resolution recommendation issued by the Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest. I'm going to simplify that now. It's a situation where a man is in two functions, I'm going to start with the usual, a public recommendation is being made. So this is where the public recommendation appears as a reason for the termination of the employment relationship, and the consequence of the termination of the employment relationship should be a resolution. Resolution and termination of employment are in a mutual relationship, in a causal and consequential relationship. I don't argue with that, let's get this straight. On my part, that's a possible solution. This innovation in paragraph 2, where it is said of a dry solution, is not a problem, nor is this first reason that stands in that provision, nor is the second one that you are now inserting, "if the authority or body responsible for the affairs of the state administration accepts the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protectors". You see, in Section 1, under the new law, this agency makes recommendations to combat corruption. What the Ombudsman, the Protector of the Citizens, makes is a public recommendation to disenfranchise a civil servant for infringing the human rights of a man, a citizen, a party. It's basically the whole Civil Protection Act. I think the reason is in the same rank as those reasons in the first place. Now to make it simple, that could be the reason for the end of the working relationship. However, in the case of these public recommendations of these bodies, whether it is the Republic's Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest or that it is the Protector of Citizens, I believe the most correct third solution, and you were aware of this problem, so you said – if the authority deciding to accept this public recommendation, the recommendation, by its definition, is something that draws attention to an organ in which it should address a problem. The procedure before the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest and proceedings before the Protector of citizens are essentially imperfect procedures. Why are imperfect acts? They're neither classic administrative nor criminal, nor civil-priced. I therefore believe that this may be one of the reasons for launching a disciplinary procedure within the state authority, so if it is adopted as a decision, then there is a decision on disciplinary responsibility, which may have consequences and termination of employment and resolution from the situation. I think it's the right way, because he, first of all, comes from the significance of the recommendation. It does not diminish the importance of both bodies, to be clear immediately, a team before this Republic's committee now grows into the Anti-Corruption Agency, and this one remains a Protector of the Citizens. The measure they can take is a public recommendation for resolution. Was that procedure perfect? No, from the point of view of the law that a civil servant has. Could he potentially be a endangered party? What if the Citizen's Protector was wrong? Automatism cannot be valid, so I believe that in one situation and another, it can be the basis for the mandatory conduct of a disciplinary procedure within the state body, which, in the end, can also be concluded by the termination of the working relationship and the resolution. I hope you understand me, Mr. Markovic, because we understand each other very well. This internship thing isn't a problem. The original text of Article 140(2), I don't think it's acceptable. Article 140, title is – Original authorisation. Transferring power. You've made an innovation in item 2, all other views remain unchanged. I'm reading this part of the shift. I'm sorry, I read the explanation here. The change is – high education acquired, that's the change you put into Article 140(2). My intervention doesn't apply to what you put in. You did it here, what? You've transferred authority from a person who's the head of an organ. You have given the possibility that some of his powers regarding the rights and obligations of employees can be passed on to a man with high professional training and appropriate work experience. I think the third condition must also be to attach to some state function, because this is not a classic power of attorney. This now turns out to be a classic power of attorney. You had to tie it to some lower function in the hierarchy itself. If it's a minister with powers, he can pass it on to the secretary of state, the secretary of state, the secretary can pass it on to the assistant, the assistant secretary of the ministry, eventually, to the chief, to something, but to tie you to the post. You've only tied it here to school supplies and years of work. I find that unacceptable. It has to be in the hierarchy of the control inside the organs. Minister, State Secretary, Assistant, Secretary, Head of Department, etc. Don't go to a counselor or a junior referent, etc., who formally meets these conditions. It must be in the nomenclature, in the hierarchy of managing certain organs, and as you've set it, it's like a classic power of attorney. I'm authorized, and since I'm authorized, to anyone I can give that authority, the only restriction is that he has to have school equipment and that he has so much work experience. This is unacceptable from the point of view of the organisation of the state and the functioning of the state body. At least that's what happened to them. Maybe this crazy time has come now, etc. This amendment that you have proposed under Article 158, it is a staff management service. You see, now this service is being given the obligation to educate civil servants, especially in the field of fighting corruption. Someone's asking a question - why? Now it turns out this way -- civil servants are learning how to fight corruption, and they are the first in the nomenclature of corruption participants. Do you perfect them in corruption, or teach them and inform them what corruption would be, which could cause your work-law, criminal, material, or any other responsibility? I think it's a bit of a silly formulation here, but it's also a fight against corruption and the necessary knowledge that civil servants need to acquire about corruption in the words in front of those where you put this in. This is within the framework of the training and education of civil servants. Whether part of this educational process during work will be chemistry, biology, bon-ton, fighting corruption, etc., they are already teaching materials. You know that, Mr. Markovic, since you're a security expert. You need to know. It's a question of the teaching program, not of the educational process. The educational process is already in law. In the end, here's one question, Mr. Markovic, without an answer. I'm not sure if I were you, maybe I'd suggest a change in article 180 just like you did. Accept this criticism on condition, but here, from the point of view of attitude 2, the question arises – what happened to these people on May 2, 2008? I have submitted an amendment to this article at a time when another friend of mine here proposed this law. It is said: duty ceases in any case. What does "debt anyway" mean? Is there a case when it's not? What happened on May 2, 2008? To all those who have been found, who have not passed the contest, because it may not have been even called, the law has stopped the working relationship. It's a situation created by the law. Is it in practice like that? It's not. Why? Because the election was May 11th. Here's the main argument. The election was May 11th, the new government formed on June 11th. In that crowd, who will be with whom, how, how, how, etc., these people are left. Maybe it's a good thing they stayed. The state has to work, which is why I just said this. If I were you, I'd probably suggest what you suggested, how to change Article 180, if someone wanted to think about the state, but if you're thinking about the personnel, there's no room for the state. I wanted to faint the other night when I saw that Vojkan Simic was an assistant minister of justice. We kicked him out of court, you, Mr. Markovic, helped us. We can barely get him out of court when he's the assistant minister. Now he's teaching judges. Can you imagine that? If I had seen Gordana Mihajlovic, then I would have died and nothing would have happened to me more. That's terrible. In this congregation, she couldn't get a vote to pass for the judge. Remember how those high-level Justice Council screams? As our proposals fail, they are reliable, good personnel, etc. How do you get them back? If you're short on frames, say so, we do. We'll find him, he's in college, people are finishing colleges, he's got smart kids, and so on, but don't get out of it. Proved, it couldn't get through here. It was not a political contract, etc. The problem is with you, Mr. Markovic, which you really shouldn't have changed. Why shouldn't you have changed? For one simple reason, which, if there are free seats, a competition is being called, so people show up, so you choose, and these people are being shut down by law. Now you have a need to keep them in a working relationship, so that they may eventually report back, so they may pass, and they may not pass. But, I know, Mr. Markovic, since I have my own spy service within the government, etc., there's this from the SPO, over the G17 plus, there's now – if you, as an assistant minister from the SPO, go to the G17 plus, you're going to go to this competition, because now the G17 plus got that ministry, and the man stays. But there's no profession, that's why I'm talking. There is no profession, and the basic intensity of that predecessor, one of your predecessors, who swore to life here, is—the profession must win, the profession begins with the assistant minister and down. Is that what happened? That's what Balinian told us. The minister is a official, state secretary, and ministerial assistants are already state officials in office, officials, they are professional. They will not be struck just as the government changes, no, it seems to me five years are they, not four years, like the government, but five, it is a profession, evidence – Vojkan Simic. I think that's it, and it was rightly noticed by some, that human valve. I only took the SPO as an example, very negative. As for G17 plus, they were trying to buy, unprincipled, people and forced them to move from one party to another. I hate it, and I stamp it, it is immoral; until now it has been in this party to preserve its own, and now to another party, they guarantee it. That's what we all have to condemn, absolutely, we all have to condemn. Even the whole G17 has nothing to do with it, individuals, always individuals, remember, with some of their own personal interests. But that's a different story. I think, formally-lawfully, what you listed in this last member about retroactiveness is the question of whether it has retroactiveness. You artificially create retroactivity to preserve the status of some people from May 2, 2008 until the day this law is declared and entered into force. I can understand that, I can even realize that, I'm telling you the most seriously, and the rights of people acquired, I can understand, even, the need of some people who did some work, in fact, working in some undefined legal position, and they should always be protected if they did. But I think this concept of a change in article 180. The law on civil servants is too politically motivated and this political motivation denies the concept of the Law, if it is true that the concept of the Law is what Balinovac said, above all, when it comes to ministerial assistants. Of course, since we're the opposition, you'd faint if we voted for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7508	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and after him is the Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have a question for you - have you read this bill? I know you as an extremely good opposition MP, you're a good lawyer, but I'm not sure you've read it. Here, now I'm gonna prove to you that you're not. In the proposal for this law, it is shown in each member, but in Article 5, you speak what is changed in Article 180, and in Article 6, you say what is changed in Articles 36 and some other members. Does it make any sense that it's the other way around? I suppose you've read it, but only in a hurry, Minister, I just wanted to make a joke with you, because Krasic is my friend, and you're friends, so we have to do a little bit of that. You, in the light of this law, have cited three reasons why amendments and additions to the law are being made and could be said that it is acceptable, because of the new duties of the Guardian of Citizens, let's say that it can go through, then because of the alignment. Isn't that right, Minister? I'm right. Due to compliance with the Law on Higher Education, there should also be some changes in the pressure of some countries, the pressure of Serbian citizens is the biggest to start working honestly one day without talking about this other. I do not believe that others sincerely wish for you, but the citizens of Serbia and, of course, the Serbian Radical Party Group wants the authority elected to work in the interests of citizens and to work honestly. But the fourth reason, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is not listed here. And what's the fourth reason? The fourth reason is the Democratic Party, and where the Democratic Party is, there are problems. And why the Democratic Party? Well, you're in the argument, and it seems to me, Minister, that in the opening statement, the technical government did not have the opportunity to call a competition, and then to elect civil servants, because the government's mandate stopped in March, I'm talking about 2008, and this law was to be implemented, or Article 180, by 1 May 2008. So, it's only April left, and now we've got a big problem for those 30 days. We couldn't fill in, as you say, and it says here, 358 seats of civil servants, and we had a previous government, we had you, or the Democratic Party, when it took part in that government for a period of time, and there was only about a month left, so we were short for that one month. It's not the reason, it's the reason the Democratic Party was participating in power at that moment and it took a lot more members of the Democratic Party to be in it, and now the coalition has spread, so we need to make different combinations and then we need some new time. This is directed to the citizens of Serbia. Today, we spent all day on two laws, one of which, in the afternoon debate, was just saying that in one article, instead of 2008, it stands in 2009, and the essence of this second law is that we get some subsequent deadline, by 31 December 2009, so that we can finish these jobs that we have. Mr. Minister, why are there still a few of these ministries, the BIA, the Office for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions, didn't enter, why the Staff Planning Service didn't provide for these jobs, so that we know exactly how many civil servants will be, because so far, according to this information, it's 358, but we have two or three ministries, I think, to the BIA and the Office for the Implementation of Office Sanctions, which are not covered by this. A colleague, Zoran Krasic, explained very nicely, when the Law on Civil Servants was on the agenda in 2005, all that is related to those who will now have problems, which, by law, the working relationship should have stopped by 1 May 2008. We've been pointing out, we've got serious analysis and we're preparing for these laws. Today you heard from a national MP, who was also a minister in the government, I don't want to talk about it, that he said, when the agencies started to introduce themselves – we couldn't wait for it, it was a good thing. We didn't believe in those agencies then, and then we showed you what problems we'd be facing when they were agencies, and he was supposed to be a minister, so he would be an opposition MP, so he could see the impact that the agency had on the citizens of Serbia. I have to ask you, Mr. Minister, do you ever wonder in the government how the citizens of Serbia, who do not have time and will be honored if we spend days and days, spend their money, which only changes in 2008, 2009, 2010 or 2012?- I'm sorry. The right to tell you, someone has already said this, if not fellow Spasojevic, I would also like to see the Law on the Regulation of Courts and Territorial Organization, or the Network, as the citizens of Serbia better understand it, come into a position that we must postpone the application of this law, because what is now envisaged is extremely radical, and we will talk about it according to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7510	The Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Nikola Savic. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, following MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7511	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, in the reasons for the law being passed, it is said, about first -- that it is in agreement with Article 20. The Law on the Protector of Citizens should create conditions for the discharge of civil servants, provided that the authority or body designated by it accepts the recommendation of the Protector of Citizens for its resolution. Then, the conditions for performing certain tasks in the authorities of the state administration, where a high, i.e. is foreseen as a condition. more education, will comply with higher education regulations. So it's about harmonising the length of the traineeship. It is also necessary to ensure the implementation of the country group's recommendation to fight corruption, and according to this recommendation, special training programmes should be adopted that will be dedicated to the fight against corruption. Here, let me refer to these reasons for law-making. The minister, roughly, says, in his address – if a civil servant refuses to do certain jobs, on a proposal from the Citizens' Protector, the authority that appointed the civil servant can resolve it. No one argues that it is normal, if someone does not perform, either illegally or unprofessionally, that it should be resolved, it is quite clear and no one is against it. However, there are many other and more efficient ways to resolve those who do so and thus unqualityly their jobs, unprofessionally, illegally, etc., from their functions. While the Civilian Protector finds that this person is doing his job incorrectly or unlawfully, while he reacts, while reporting it to the authority that has set him up, while the Authority initiates its resolution mechanism, it is possible to spend a lot of time and to do some damage, to irreparable damage to citizens. What kind of mechanism is there to control the Guardian of Citizens? Finally, he was left here with one discretionary right, so that I would not put into the same plane of resolution and a way to resolve it through the recommendation of the Guardian of Citizens, because, however, it is a recommendation and we know how binding it is to act, a binding act – it is a recommendation that the authority that has set it can take advantage of, but it does not have to. It's simply one discretionary right. The deadline for the appointment of a civil servant, under the Law on Civil Servants, was 1 May 2008 and until then, on the basis of professional selection, it was necessary to appoint people, to appoint civil servants. Now, in Article 180(1), the words "1 May 2008" are replaced by the words "31 December 2009". What's the reason for the delay? The explanation that there has been a choice of a new government, that is, setting up a new government, does not really stand. There were a lot of officials, civil servants, who are, I say, civil servants of general practice. They could have been set up. There were also a lot of high-quality and professional people, so it could have been done for sure, and this deadline left in the bill of law is, indeed, inappropriate. Besides, here, it seems, it takes a kind of lustration. I would say that those who are similar on the party line will be chosen and that those who are inadequate will not pass that choice and choice, so that some old story about party personnel is repeated. It seems to be present in this bill as well. You've spent a lot of time on the story of reducing the administration at local level, although it's not the subject of this law, or the staff of the administration. One to one and a half percent is, right, an optimal rate at the local level. In this regard, I would ask, do you know with how many sets of deputies, advisers, civil servants, drivers, for example, Minister Bozidar Djelic was going through Serbia's MUPs when biometric passports were being made? It was a whole set of civil servants. Do you know what an epilogue of all this is? That thousands of these passports had to be destroyed for some protection that was not done properly and properly. In principle, I'd say you were wrong about Bozidar Djelic, because he was supposed to be where the money was made. A man knows how to do that, and that's where he's supposed to be, though, for himself. In the end, I'd say one more thing: "corruption, our Dick." According to the country group's recommendation, it is necessary to bring in specific training programmes that will be dedicated to the fight against corruption. There were committees, councils, agencies and anything not in the fight against corruption -- all of this to combat corruption in Serbia, and now the training of civil servants in the fight against corruption, and corruption flourishes. For corruption in Serbia is real spring - California. In the end, I would say, with this law it would be – the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7512	There's a word from MP Srboljub Zivanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7513	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for interrupting such a constructive discussion, but I was forced to read the post I received from the Vladimirs municipality: "The Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, Minister Milan Markovic. Dear Minister Markovic, for all the events related to the functioning of the local parliament of the Vladimirs municipality, we would like to refer you this way to the following. The government of the Vladimirs municipality was built on 16. 06. In 2008, in which the SPS, three committees, and the SRS -- ten committees -- are participated, making up most of the total number of members of the Assembly, which is 25 committee members. After coming to power, a chaotic state was found in every respect. The total amount of debt left by the previous government, the DS coalition, G17 plus, plus the SPO and DSS, was almost 50% of the planned budget for 2008, i.e. Close to 100 million dinars. In addition to numerous debts, certain facts and evidence have appeared that must attract the attention of the average man. The salary of the first man of the municipality of Janko Đurić, called the Russian, amounted to no less than 130 thousand dinars and his closest associates – 90 thousand. This fact was established by the budgetary inspection, Decision No 40100554/2007.09-1 of 2.11.2007, which found that officials of the Vladimirs Municipality had to make a payment at the expense of the execution of the Vladimirci municipality's budget of one million and 186,000 271 dinars in the name of more paid earnings of appointed and appointed persons – the president of the municipality, 600 000, the chief and secretary, per 400,000 dinars. Despite the existing solution, which has become legal, since the appeal of the appointed has been rejected, it is also hidden, i.e. Destroyed, so as not to reveal the true condition and what a criminal investigation is about. They continued to receive illegal wages for another year. No budget payments have been made to this day. 'Ala, it's time. "In the municipality administration of the municipality of Vladimirci, which has 52 employees, 15 workers were appointed during the period of their government under the auspices of imaginary work creation systems. Out of the total amount of debt they left behind, the paradoxical fact can pay attention to the amount of unpaid coffee bills, which from February to May 2008, amount to an incredible 600,000 dinars, and paid dinars to drivers – 70,000 per month, as well as the purchase of mobile appliances, amounting to 5,000 euros. On the other hand, the fact is that the Schools of Children Distracted in the Development of the "Holy Sava" from Umka owes three years, three and a half million dinars. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7514	National MP, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7515	Here, I'm bringing the end. As you can see, by coming to the power of the SRS-SPS coalition, home government is created. The salary of officials in the legal framework has been reduced, 400,000 dinars were saved at the monthly level. This is very important for you – none of the workers were chicanned, which was not the case in the previous period, when many.... None of the other members, from the DS, the Serbian Force Movement and other non-party figures, were fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7516	National MP, in order to be able to fulfil my duty in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you had to specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. The People's Messenger Nikola Savic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on civil servants. I have to say, this is another law that is passed because the previous law has not begun to apply within the time limit. It is not only this law in that position, but also the law that we talked about before this law, the Law on travel documents, whose application also didn't start within the foreseen time limit, and that is why we had to reconsider it today. Then it is the opposition's fault that Parliament is working slowly. According to someone, it seems to me that Bozidar Djelic, "Parliament is a black hole on our European path." We see here that the opposition is not guilty, the opposition is doing its job constructively, considering every bill, but is more to the government and to those who need to enforce the laws. But not only are there criticisms, there are also justifiable reasons why this law is passed, and one of them is the harmonisation of this law to the conditions prescribed by higher education. The newspaper in this law is that it also predicts that a civil servant can be resolved on a proposal by the Guardians of Citizens. However, I don't see that happening in practice, or that it will in practice produce some results, because we know that the Guardian of Citizens has no ability to order, but is his only choice to signal and compare. Next, in this law, which some of my predecessors spoke of, it's about so-called. professional training in the fight against corruption, on a proposal from the Group of the Council of Europe. Also, I believe that this seminar, a course, as we call it, on the subject of professional education of this type, will not produce any results, because we know from experience that it is very difficult for a thief to decide to steal, but this is one of the EU's homework that needs to be implemented and I believe that this is why it is put into the law. Furthermore, the law states that some standards are in line, so, for example, the traineeship is in line with the degree of professional training, which is essentially not bad, which is one good definition of this law, because it does not have to be the same traineeship for the sixth, seventh or fourth degree of professional training. If we look at article 39 of this law that speaks of a younger counselor, we'll see that there's a rumor here that a younger counselor is working on complex jobs. If we look further at this member, we'll see that the expert facility required by this job is a high professional cook, and if we go back, we'll see that the traineeship lasts a year. So, for a younger counselor, it's high enough professionally prepared and completed traineeship, so I doubt that someone who only has a year's work experience, regardless of his other qualities, can successfully and efficiently work on complex jobs, because we see from the law that this profession is needed. To stay on Article 78, that's what my colleague Krasic was talking about, but I'm going to watch this member from another angle. In fact, this member speaks of the evaluation of civil servants, but there is no telling who and how the evaluation of civil servants is done. In this same article, just in the next position, there's one other thing being said, which I think is very badly defined, incorrect, illogical, and I'm going to quote it. It is said: "The civil servant is resolved from his position and if twice, but not in parallel, the final solution will determine the assessment of 'not satisfied'. I really don't understand anything here, and I believe most of the people who read this. Does this mean that if someone is consistently assessed by the assessment of 'not satisfied', in which case it is not resolved, which is completely illogical and is not in line with the examples of practices in some other areas? Let's not go any further, we know that, say, a student, when he loses two years in college in a row, automatically loses his right to regular schooling. So he's sanctioning himself more rigorously, at least that's how it was at the time when I, or my generation, was studying, and now he's a Bologna, so it's something different. So he's more rigorously sanctioned than if he loses his first and fourth year, more rigorously sanctioned two years in a row. This, in my opinion, is completely illogical and, Mr. Minister, take a look at this, this should be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7518	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 6 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like you to explain to us at the outset what's in the light of this bill's proposal. You said – the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, so you say, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. The most beautiful thing I'd ask you to do is explain to us what the adverse consequences are? Has there been any adverse consequences so far? If so, who is responsible for it and did anyone answer for it? You can't write such an explanation on a flat-rate basis when you and we all know this isn't true. It's okay, you had a need to propose this law, you proposed it, why by emergency procedure, there was no need, but the argument that the adoption of this law would cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and the organisation is indeed unacceptable. Why? I guess this is mostly about Article 5. It's a bill of law. Now, exactly what I said earlier and what all the colleagues who spoke about this bill said, that 1 May 2008 was a date that had already been extended once, a deadline that had already been extended by amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants and, behold, we now have the extension of that deadline again. I want to ask you, and I expect you to answer, was there a contest in place until April 1st? Perhaps after the competition, the filling of these jobs was not done, or was the competition called? It's something that's very important and that you need to explain to us. By the way, these days, it's the current story of the competent state authorities about public spending savings, and everyone immediately grabs on the employees, for the tenants, no one thinks of reducing the number of agencies, to reduce the number of ministries, because these are the jobs where officials are headed by these authorities, of course, high party officials in power and that's something that cannot be touched. That's why he told us the other day, Jelasic, indeed, that not so much cynicism, was both funny and sad, Jelasic, who is known for his salary, as governor of the National Bank, was about 5,000 euros, that the NB started saving public spending. He says -- we fired all the coffee chefs, we bought coffee machines, we fired the security guards, we hire people from some agencies. So, such laughter to the people, ridicule to the people, is something that is inadmissible. You, in some public interviews, have mostly read, Mr. Markovic, announced, too, some restrictions on employees by local self-government. Today, you have explained that it is not good to do this at the level of the state administration, and I remind, above all, that the public of Serbia, that the number of employees in the state administration, or in the government, in the ministries, has increased by nine and a half times. Now it's really a logical question, if there's somewhere to be rationalized, where it's the right place. Otherwise, we don't think it's good, no matter what crisis the state is in, that cars are being broken over the weakest, that you're leaving without a job again, people who are subsidists or officials with the SS, how this usually happens, and that who knows how many families we leave without that kind of income that family members have earned, either in local self-governments or in state services. There is a much better way to rationalise public spending – by spending much less on those very high wages. You know, there's more savings in gross amounts, when it's calculated, to remove some agency and the director of some agency, which actually don't do anything, but to fire five coffee cooks. It should indeed be kept in mind that what is being prepared for Serbia and what Serbia is already in is, I mean the obvious economic and financial crisis, the social misery, that the government of the Republic of Serbia takes account of, in some attempt to stop it, or, at least, as much as it reduces, does not beat the weakest. When it comes to this law, which the colleagues, mostly, have said everything about its changes, given the time, I will only comment on the members of 78 and 80, where it is said that the civil servant is resolved from his post and if twice, but not in turn, the final solution is to determine the assessment of 'not satisfied', as well as if the authority or body responsible for the appointment of a civil servant accepts the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protector for its resolution. This, right here, is talking about how you devalue the function of Protectors of citizens, how he really shouldn't have existed either in the Constitution or in the law or in real life, because what's his function if his public recommendation doesn't oblige anyone? I can see that I've really overstepped my time, and I'm sorry, but I'm just asking you, Minister, to make sure you don't threaten employees in local self-government, not to threaten, like Jelasic coffee cooks, but to try to reconcile your driver's little salary and yours, that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7520	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? (No) Does the Minister want the word? The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7521	I thank you for this constructive discussion we had. I'd take the opportunity to give a few clarifications, or a few answers to the questions that were asked here. In order to avoid confusion, I have already explained in the course of the discussion, far from threatening anyone in the local self-government. We talked about it, I don't know if you were, that the whole system is supposed to be so, that the conditions will be such, I'm sure, that a lot more people will voluntarily want on these terms to leave jobs than we'll have the money to give them. I want to be responsible now, no one will be forced to be left without a job in local self-government units. I've explained why we're predicting such a system. So the idea is that, by investing from a billion to 200 million annually, in five years, 42 billion savings are generated and that the system of local self-government is reduced to 12,000 to 14,000 employees. Of course, far from the fact that we don't need the same thing both at the state level and at the level of the state administration, I completely agree, except that, unfortunately, at the level of the state administration, we don't have the exact criteria for our state's needs in terms of the scope of state administration. As for Article 78, I fully accept your suggestion and we will see, if there are options, we will come out with the amendment, to comply with these laws which are in the process and concerning the Anti-Corruption Agency. I also accept this remark concerning the order of members. I'm surprised there's been such an oversight of the order of members. It's not in line with that technique that we in the Ministry are fostering. So members of the 6th and 7th were going to be 1st and 2, and then these five members would go. As for the objection to why certain things are so well-conceived in the basic law, so ever since it was adopted in 2005, I said we didn't go into the amendments to the Law until we had at least some cycle, and that would be the cycle of putting civil servants in place. Therefore, it is a propo of those objections to Article 140, or which is why special arches are provided for in Article 32. These last arches are so envisaged and they've already been realised, say, by the Police Act, also, by the Foreign Affairs Act. The government recently established a tax administration law. It's obvious that the nature of the business is in the police, BIA. I think they're also going to go to a special regime for the Department of Service Sanctions, but that's someone I'm thinking, I'm not sure yet, that's what the Justice Department is going to decide. It is that there are also special calls and special needs. That's how the Law was set up back in 2005. I don't think it's bad and it should stay that way. I do not believe that these laws, which were also in the Assembly, can do so without any control or procedure. I guess they have their own procedures, too. I remember when there was a general inspector's choice, he went to the competition, so I guess there's a procedure. I'm not in the middle of my job familiar with that, but I guess the guy in charge of those jobs is. As to whether or not the recommendation of the Protector of Citizens should go to a binding disciplinary procedure, because this procedure is not legally perfect, which is absolutely correct, or to the discretionary decision of the authority that received the recommendation, whether or not it will comply with both, the point is to assess what is better. If we question the citizens' protection proceedings, the imperfection of this process, then we can say that a mandatory disciplinary procedure should be conducted, but, again, when we look at that protectionist being elected by the National Assembly, should the authority of the administration have any doubts about the body chosen by the National Assembly? I'd say there are arguments here for and against, so each of us can and probably stays with what he said. I think, given that the Guardian of Citizens chooses the Assembly, given the power of that authority, the authority that decides to place a civil servant in a position should decide on the recommendation of the Protector of Citizens. Mr Krasic thinks of this Article 5 that it does not have to exist, I think it is necessary to exist as such, with this feedback fact, because we must convalitate this situation which is not legally perfect, which is that, in practice, some conclusion of the Government is an extended deadline that is defined by the Law. As for the answer to your question, 108 competitions were, 107 were conducted, but a realisation was made for only 50 people. As far as this salary range is concerned, I suggested, and the unions supported me, to go to a reduction in the wage range at 1:6. In the first account, until this economic crisis occurred, it required a billion and 700 in the following year and three billion in the following year. That could have worked. I can't tell you now what's going to happen with that pay cut. I can't say if there will be a billion and 200 for this project to reduce the number of employees in local self-government, because the circumstances have changed completely and all the ministers in the government are forced to wait for the projection that the Ministry of Finance will give. I wish both of these projects could get involved in this, especially I would like this project rationalization in local self-government, because I think that voluntary departure is entirely possible. I think it's the most rewarding, right now, to give for this project, because this project is being attended by local self-government. I said next year's savings are three and a half billion. At billions and 200 invested, we get three and a half billion and that generates 42 billion in five years. It's hard to predict what's going to happen next. One thing's for sure, we need to be socially responsible, we need to do some savings. I repeat, I didn't threaten anyone. We just sent letters to units of local self-government, where we mentioned what counterpart Zivanovic was saying earlier, that it was noted that some elected persons, officials in local self-government, have higher salaries than the President of the Republic, or the Prime Minister, or ministers in the government. We don't think that's right, and they have to pay their own wages to comply with the regulations that regulate that area. Anyway, thanks. We'll submit this amendment if technically possible. We accept fully this criticism for the order of members, but there has been a failure. It happens, of course, when it's about to happen. It's a legal technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-18-0.u7522	I'm finishing the initial search. We're finishing work for today. The paper continues tomorrow, November 19th, at 10 o'clock, with a debate on the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Associations. Thank you.
