ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6716	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE OTHER REGULAR SESSION OF 5 November 2008 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic - Dejanovic, president of the Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6717	Dear colleagues, before we move to the agenda of this session and before we open this session, let me inform you that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has organised a public hearing today, at 13 o'clock, on the subject "Improving the position of refugees and internally displaced persons in Serbia", here in the Assembly, so I invite you to take part in the work of that committee. I would also like to remind you that information from the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee has arrived in the parliamentary groups, Micunovica, about the need to form groups of friendships, so please make your statement. To move to the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, called for today, on 5 November 2008. Based on official presence records, 172 MPs are registered at this time. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. By applying the electronic voting system, it has been established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Wednesday, November 5, 2008, so within a short period of time, as set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22 and 23 October 2008. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent in writing an objection to the minutes. We're moving on to a decision on the record. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22 and 23 October 2008. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against the abstentions and those who did not vote there were not, of the present 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22 and 23 October 2008. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, on a proposal for a merger of the debate and a proposal for a change in the order of consideration of the agenda points. The government proposed that the draft law on the regulation of courts, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no against and abstentions, there were no 14 votes, of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no against and abstentions, there were no 14 votes, of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were none against and withheld, there was no vote of 15, of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft public prosecutor's law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no against and abstentions, there were no 14 votes, of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors, which submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, there were no, there were no, there were no 17 votes, of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no against and abstentions, there were no 16 votes, of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Violations be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare that 128 votes against no one with abstentions voted 16 out of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare that 128 votes against no one with abstentions voted 16 out of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare that 128 votes against no one with abstentions voted 16 out of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Banks and Insurance Companies, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2008, be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that 128 votes against no one with abstentions voted 17 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In a letter dated 24 October 2008, the government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Law on Travel Documents, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare that 128 votes against no one with abstentions voted 14 out of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the selection of members of the Serbian Health Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 128, with abstentions, voted 14 out of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia – Dr Vojislav Kostunica – proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 30 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: 22 votes against – 128, with no abstentions, not one of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Financial Co-operation Programme between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Spain, with an annex, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 127, with abstentions, voted 18, out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia – Dr Vojislav Kostunica proposed putting on the agenda a proposal to educate the Commission on the monitoring of the global economic crisis and to take measures to mitigate the negative impacts on the economy and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 31 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: 24 votes against -129, with no abstentions, no 13 votes, of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft legislation on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the People's MPs to make themselves known, press the appropriate key. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that he voted 1 against – 128, with no abstentions, had not voted 21, out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, based on Article 90 of Item 3 and Article 140(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Regulating Courts, Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements (points 1, 6 and 7 of the Proposed Agenda), a joint principled review on the Proposal for a Law on Public Prosecutors, a proposal for a Law on the State Council of Judges (points 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda), and a joint principled review on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Deposit Insurance of Deposits, a proposal for an amending and supplementing the Law on Deposit Insurance of Deposits and Liquidation of Banks and Associations (the Rules of Procedures of the Court of Procedures). Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 128 votes against -39, with no abstentions, did not vote 5, out of 172 MPs present. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, on a proposal to change the order of examination of the agenda point and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: 128 votes against -40, with no abstentions, did not vote 5, out of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the Agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, in general. I ask the service to prepare a consolidated text of the agenda. Agenda: Given that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session in 2008, and before we continue to work, I remind you that it is a member of 199. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly envisioned that parliamentary questions, as a rule, be asked after the National Assembly has completed its work on all points of the agenda. Accordingly, I would like to inform you that the time to ask parliamentary questions will be upon completion of the work on all the items of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008. The word is Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6718	Dear People's MPs, yesterday a group of 88 MPs proposed that a debate be held in the Assembly and that no confidence be voted on by the government. That proposal was made on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6719	Please, gentlemen, allow us to listen to Mr Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6720	It is necessary to inform and explain the team about this because we have called for a member of the Rules of Procedure by emergency procedure and for the 130th member of the Constitution of Serbia, who predicts that such a session must be held immediately; the first next session must have such a item of the agenda and that a debate must be held for the longest five days. My question is: why didn't this come on the agenda on this first basis, based on an emergency procedure request? We need to discuss this before we determine the agenda, because this is a serious initiative. Second, we would like to know when this item of the agenda will come to the congregation debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6721	I remind you that a group of 86 MPs, on 4 November 2008, submitted a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government. I would like to inform you that this proposal will be included in the agenda of the first next session of the National Assembly, following the end of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008, with the deadline provided for in Article 130(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says it cannot be shorter than five days, and the deadlines provided for in Article 104(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means within 15 days. Mr. Krasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6722	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, don't let Gordana Comic soophlify you that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution should be applied and that will not be subflated by Cedomir Jovanovic. I'll remind you now. In 2001, he said -- you didn't choose the government, so you can't even ask to vote on the government's mistrust, so this issue came to a vote, so it didn't get into the agenda. Now you've done it in a very, very, very beautiful way. I must draw your attention to the provision of Article 130(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You can only interpret it so that when the MPs, at least 60 of them, put together a proposal to vote on the government's mistrust, it becomes the point of the agenda of the first next session by automation. Compared to yesterday, the first next session is today. There is another small finess that protects the government, it says that the debate can be opened when five days pass, because it takes five days for the government to consider the proposal and possibly say something about it. That means you're obliged to put this item on the agenda, and the debate on that point can be in six, seven, eight days, and we'll finish it. Better on time, because as they intended, they prepare Kosovo and Metohija, here, they are already looking forward to these others, who knows what they'll think of everything. We have to stop this. From unfounded proposals to vote for no confidence in the government, the government is protected by the constitution, so that the same group of MPs must wait at least 180 days to repeat the proposal. That's quite clear. We've repeated this a million times from this pay phone in this building, and when we're making a new constitution, and at all; nobody in their right mind wants to accept the situation that depends on most whether this agenda is going to be on the agenda. This item of the agenda was signed by the Constitution. We did not report in time, or at the beginning, to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because we believe that you respect the Constitution and that the Constitution, with its power and automation, requires you to say – for this we voted to enter the agenda, but I am informing you, by the Constitution, as a first point, I must put forward a review of the motion to vote against the Government of Boris Tadic, Cvetkovic, I do not know, to some government. You've made a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, and given the consequences they may have caused, it may also be a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6723	The word is Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6724	Today's session is the first next session, according to Article 130. The Constitution. There's no reason to delay the matter for another session. According to the Constitution, it is explicitly stated that it is the first next session. Yesterday the proposal was made, on time, and it should be on the agenda today, according to the imperatives of the members of the 130th Constitution itself. We understand why we are trying to delay this debate. The assembly debate on what the government is doing with regard to Kosovo and Metohija is being postponed and on the situation of EULEX at KIM. She, in turn, did this in an inappropriate, new way, and this assembly has the right to open a debate, but not only has she the right, but she has a business and constitutional basis for it. We're discussing it now. We didn't want to get into the very thing why you're breaking the Constitution, but it's time to say why you're doing it. That's what you're doing here so you wouldn't be talking about what the government is doing is that Eulex smuggles into KIM. That's been going on for two months now, and this assembly has no chance to say a word about it. You took off the agenda twice, which you yourself put on the agenda, because you wanted to avoid a assembly debate about KIM, especially Eulex. Now, when it is certain that such debates will not be and there will be no such resolution, and when the opposition uses the only possible means to open such a debate, and that is the vote on mistrust of the government, and when the government, in fact, has to put the assembly leadership on the agenda per Article 130. The Constitution, the new reasons are invented, the Constitution is broken, so it is said, not at the next session, but at the second next session. This is the next session, compared to the time the initiative was given. She was given 24 hours ago, so please put this on the agenda and open the debate. Don't be afraid, we'll just talk about it, you'll keep your mouth shut, because you're in charge of keeping quiet about that thing, but you can't stop the congregation debate about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6725	Mr Samardzic, Mr Krasic, as you know, a session whose agenda we just adopted, I called on 31 October 2008. So, the first next session after this, which I called on October 31st, will contain the proposed agenda. We will not violate the Constitution, nor our Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, I am fully aware of your needs and your desire to suggest what you did in your proposal. I'll respect both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, but you're forcing me to break both. I didn't listen to Mrs. Comic or anyone, I simply followed, first of all, the Constitution, and then our Rules of Procedure. First Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6726	It's touching how you know how to clap. Whenever you have a chance, show it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, welcome to you, I see you're happy, it's nothing to dispute, we know that. I always say love can never hide. What do you want to do? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, this debate looks to me like that joke that's about one part of our people who can't possibly be another, so when the one in the machine says, "first," the other one says, "I next to him." That's what this session looks like to me - to that session that should be the first. This, Madam Chairman, is the first session, not the sitting next to her. That shouldn't take much convincing. You can interpret whatever you want and whatever you want, but what's basic here, look at the emergency procedure, Article 161, so I don't read you a complete attitude 1, which is why it can be law by emergency procedure, so it's said: when you can endanger life, human health, country safety and organ work and organizations. I really can't understand that what's happening to you with KiM is no reason to argue with the request of 86 MPs. You think, with gymnastics like this, you're going to avoid putting that question on the agenda, doing what's obvious to be doing all this time. Now it turns out that all of this you've been doing, out of your announced diplomatic moves, is winning states to vote in the UN for Resolution, in fact, was a game you play with the Americans. It was your goal, just to show that, like, you're doing something, and, essentially, you've done nothing, you've only made it possible for Marty Ahtisaari's plan to be implemented for all this time by the EU, and that with Mission Eulex, which is completely illegal, past the UN Charter, past the KIM Resolution, to allow Kosovo and Metohija to establish bodies that will lead Kosovo to an independent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6727	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6728	That is the basic problem, which is for MPs to bring to Serbian citizens. I know you don't care. An independent Kosovo for Boris Tadic was already in 2007, in January.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6729	Time, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6730	Serbia cannot and Serbia's citizens cannot forget his statement in the pre-election campaign – that KIM's independence is reality. This was just a game that served you to fool the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, Madam Chairman, you should put the MPs' initiative on the matter of confidence in the government in this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6731	Mr. Todorovic, even if I obeyed you and broke the Constitution, and if we worked effectively today and finished this agenda tomorrow, then I came to the agenda this point would not be five days ago. So, I couldn't open that dot at all five days before it passed since her submission. Therefore, it is known what the next session is; it is the first session I have scheduled since 3 November, i.e. Since yesterday, from the moment you submitted your proposal. I would just like to inform you who reported to the Rules of Procedure in order to know the order: Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandra Jankovic, Nikolic Zoran, Spasojević Srdjan, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Dragan Šormaz, Krasic Zoran, Zoran Shami, Todorovic Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6732	Just a little note, Madam President, both you and the deputy secretary. We're in Serbia, we're not in Germany, we're in the West, name, so I'd like to ask you. So, MP Natasa Jovanovic, then in turn. So we have a situation where the opposition political scene is clearly profiled in the National Assembly. It's made by the SRS, the DSS and the NS. We, as responsible people, are concerned about the fate of our country and the people in KIM, and because of the fact that the secret negotiations are being conducted by Boris Tadic, America and the Western forces on the deployment of so-called "the so-called "Kee". The Eulex mission, which, unfortunately, is in progress because, even after the interview given by the President of the Mission, has been deployed over 2,000 of those who are the product of Marty Ahtisaari's plan in the area of our southern province, so we have come into the situation, Madam President, that we now have to agree here and give you arguments, according to that people's, "It's not the neck, it's the neck." The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for Serbian citizens to know, were written before the adoption of the Mitrovica Constitution two years ago. As the Constitution in Article 130 does not know the deadline, and the Rules of Procedure, which is a lower act, knows and says: no later than 15 days, so the Constitution says the issue is discussed at the earliest of five days. Since you, and I hear such comments, have already scheduled a session, today we were just deciding what will be on the agenda. Your will was, apparently, I see you're already making some calculations, so Mr. Micunovic says it's unserious, "they're putting something on the agenda and they don't have 126". How do you know, Mr. Micunovic, maybe we, as a responsible man, if you are concerned about KIM's fate, convince you to accept these reasons as well as Mr. Samardzic, who was authorized in front of a group of MPs to explain this proposal? So this is Parliament. How can you know in advance what will be created, which majority here? If you are all people who say "yes, we respect the Constitution, we care about the state, we care about KIM", which will give you more reason to vote for mistrust with the government, in which, of course, by the dictatorship of Boris Tadic, the foreign minister gives these statements. Why do I have to read, and I haven't read that magazine for 17 years, "Time", I think 2,000 or 3,000 people in Serbia read it, the question is, what is the circulation? I now need to read "Time" and see what is in the interview "Time", Vuk Jeremic said about the deployment of Mission Eulex.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6733	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6734	I'm done. He says, it means it is being managed in such a way, and we cannot discuss it, that negotiations on the reconfiguration of international presence in Kosovo will be completed either by accepting Serbia's or by blocking the UN Security Council. What are the conditions of Serbia, who has authorized him to go out as foreign minister with something that is not from the 1244 Constitution, is not Serbia's state policy? You say, "Hypothetically, we can finish today or tomorrow's session." Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you will, as far as I know and what is the deal with the heads of the parliamentary groups, in 15 minutes to interrupt the session and to schedule for Tuesday. Isn't that enough reason that more than five days have passed that are binding, but not to put on the agenda, but to discuss the issue?- I'm sorry. That's absolutely clear. So, you don't want to do that, and we will, because the opposition political bloc of the SRS, the DSS and the NS is clearly profiled in the protection of national and national interests, as soon as this, above all, is a non-national government that doesn't care, that we do everything we can to make you respect the Constitution, respect the Rules of Procedure, and that citizens are won in the extraordinary elections by the Government to protect the interests of our countrymen in the KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6735	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6736	Art. 225 and 226. I ask the president to inform us whether the UN Security Council is scheduled to hold a session for December 7th, so that, depending on the signals you receive, Kosovo and Metohija can be discussed in the Serbian Assembly? Since its formation, since 7 July 2008, the government has been giving positive signals to Western power centres, Brussels and Washington, and has not been able to launch a debate in the Assembly on KIM's status. In addition, two motions for a resolution submitted by the government systematically left out their views on Eulex. Systematic, so, not by accident. The question is, what are we waiting for? We've been waiting, probably, to see the results of the American elections, here, finely defeated Obama, and now the question is, what are we waiting for? Are we waiting for Godo, or are we waiting for the practical legalisation of the mission that is already in the province south of Ibra? If at night we can discuss everything and everything, like some vampire organization, if the government is in charge of secret negotiations and allows the possibility of enlisting Eulex, which is the opposite of UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the National Assembly Resolution of 26 December 2007, if the Government does not respect the Parliament's decision, should we spit on ourselves, because we pretend that we have not rejected the EU Mission to implement Marty Ahtisaari's proposal? What's particularly interesting to me is how people from the ruling coalition, the DS, who, when I say this, have probably urgent other jobs, to see what the prices of underpants, socks and other things in the Chinese markets are, like speaking Japanese. What violation of the Constitution are you talking about? The one that the United States and the "United European States" have confessed to. Independent Kosovo, on the violation of the Constitution which is... Mr. Micunović, your time is already up, that's for sure, ours is coming. And secondly, it's inappropriate for a man your age, intelligence and education to throw away a lady. I didn't know you were here. So, what violation of the Constitution are you talking about? A violation of the constitution conducted by Mr. Micunovic's student, a person in the role of Serbian President, who talks about Kosovo's division. It is amazing that the president of a country is talking about the division of Kosovo. He supports all those who thought it was possible to take 15% of our territory. What I have for you as a recommendation, I see that still the government is not interested at all, and even the MPs of this Semafor coalition, what they say, is that at least you don't help us get those of the West away from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6737	Mr. Zoran Nikolic. You won't. Just to see who hasn't given up yet. Mr. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, is absolutely unexpected that the position cannot even listen to our reasons; but after two or three reports, you see that this part of the position has been halved. So, when anything about Kosovo is mentioned, they have no patience, but they get out of the O.R. faster or better. What are you gonna do, that's it. So the initiative was submitted by 86 MPs, based on Article 130. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Art. Paragraphs 3 and 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. a proposal for a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The reason is clear, co-operation with Eulex is unacceptable for the applicants of this initiative. So this is about the territory of the state. Well, there's nothing more sacred for a country than to take care of its territory. Madam Chairman, today our request had to be put on the agenda. This isn't any request. Here is a request that is living, which for centuries our peoples have so soberly, so dignifiedly defended - the territory of the state. So there's nothing different than that. You have today united the agenda points related to a set of law on justice. It's something that will only be applied in 2010 in this country. So the fact of all that is in a year, a year and a half. So once again, I urge you to put as a part of the agenda a motion to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when you start that point, it is your business again, although you are obliged to do so today by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I warn you that it is correct to accept these demands, because since this summer, we have had a resolution signed by 108 MPs, and you've put it under the rug. You're trying to put this motion to the government for a vote of no confidence again. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am informing the citizens of Serbia that this kind of behaviour of the government is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6739	National MP, the proposal will be included in the agenda of the first next session after the end of this agenda for which we have adopted. The date cannot be said because we do not know whether the session will be completed by 19, whether the proposal will be included in the agenda. There will be sessions based on demands to discuss and vote for mistrust with the government. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6740	Dear fellow Members of the People, I wanted to warn you that you were wrong when you did not allow the MPs to declare whether this item of the agenda should be put on the agenda today's session. To tell you the truth, I expected you to do it. Why? For the reason the Constitution is absolutely clear. However, our Rules of Procedure have not been able to agree with the Constitution, but Article 130 is perfectly clear and we have asked that member and member 131 to be included in today's session agenda. This, of course, is the first next session. Why is a period of at least five days required for consideration and not for inclusion? So the government would prepare itself, give her some time to prepare for the debate. If we had put it on the agenda today, even, put it as the first item of the agenda, as we asked, we would have a debate in five days on Tuesday. It could've been the third item of the agenda, yeah, let's say the MP majority decided so we could give her another five days, so it could be in ten days. That had to be on the agenda. But you don't want to. Why? Once again, we take a step behind those who decide our fates. On Monday, I think, or Tuesday, the Security Council will discuss Kosovo. What kind of message did we send? The message that we didn't even find it appropriate to consider the KIM resolution that was filed here. Now we wanted to warn this event, to open a debate about it. Maybe the government wouldn't fall. She probably wouldn't fall, but she'd be limited, and we'd tie her neck a little tight to watch what she's doing. Today, the newspaper says that Aleksandar Ivanko, a UNMIK spokesman, has been saying that UN envoy Andrew Landley has been in Belgrade for days, where he talks with Serbian government officials about six points in a proposal to reconfigure UNMIK, which was proposed by the United Nations Secretary-General this summer. UNMIK chief Lamberto Zannieri was in Belgrade and returned to Pristina on Monday night, and Andrew Lendley is still in Belgrade. So you see we're right. Behind our backs, the Serbian government is running some kind of Kosovo and Metohija policy, for which there is no mandate. She is authorized by the Constitution to lead foreign policy, but within the limits within which we allow her to do so. Whenever we think they're doing something that they need to do, we simply have to invite her here to account for the people's MPs, or the citizens of Serbia. Why do you make it impossible? I don't know. You can't read the Constitution, obviously. Thinking and putting an end to the agenda isn't the same thing, you wouldn't hurt anything if we had made that decision today. The government would be ready for Tuesday and we could open that debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6741	The proposal for a non-confidential debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, will be held at the session following the end of this third session, which we voted on on the agenda. National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. After that, MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Dragan Šormaz is not currently in the hall, said MP Zoran Krasic, and after that, MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6742	Mrs. Comic, you made a big mistake, where you gave the wrong lesson to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, and that's all you did, and no one else, I'm absolutely sure of it. Now let me explain to you what you've done, why you've done it, and I'm going to tell you a little secret about the great chefs of the kitchen. What's this about? The constitution is very clear, only you don't understand what the next session is. Is it something that's actually possible and certain, or is it something that's imaginary? I interpret that you are the first to interpret the next session as something imaginary, like Gekna – possible, but not known when. According to your interpretation, there may be no session until Jurjevdan and this will never be on the agenda. In order to do something good, to focus your attention on respecting the Constitution and the law, we have also inserted Article 161 into this accompanying act and this proposal. Rules of Procedure, it's an emergency procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the conditions are 24 hours before the session. This proposal was taken to the office at 11:45 yesterday, so 24 hours ago. You didn't even want to go to that variant, put it to a vote in accordance with Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me tell you right now, that would be the wrong way, because the Constitution is above. The constitution says - the first next session. Compared to yesterday, the first next session is the one that opened at 12 o'clock, because theoretically it was possible, and you see that we made a mistake, and I have to draw your attention to that, we could take a little bit more of the amendment, so this previous session would be over in five days, so, from this initiative to make the next one today, it would actually have to be delayed for the next week. Then how would you interpret the provision of the Constitution? Then what's the next session? You can't justify this with anything but one violence, first of all, you and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, and these people here are obliged not to get a sneeze. What will be the consequences of this, that's the topic we're going to talk about, but you won't let us talk, because you simply don't let the agenda form by the Constitution. You have committed a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you and Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I know what kind of stereotype explanation you can give. I would like to inform you in advance that the explanation you give is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and I will ask that in the day for the National Assembly to vote on it, and when you start to work on this agenda, we will probably re-prove every half hour to re-advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and not be satisfied with your explanation again, in order to vote at least one 700 times on whether a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6743	Since you have stated only Article 161, I assume that the injury of that member involves your desire to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course they'll vote. No injured Rules of Procedure, and a proposal of 86 MPs, a non-confidential debate, will be held at the next session following the end of this third session, which is under way, with the adopted agenda. Such sessions will be immediately after the conclusion. If this session is completed by 19 hours, it will even be respected for 15 days. The word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure is given to Zoran Shami, followed by the folk MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6744	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but even more than that, the Constitution has been violated. In Article 130(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia writes, literally, as follows: "The motion for a vote of mistrust to the government or to a single member of the Government is being considered by the National Assembly at the first next session and at the earliest five days after the motion was submitted. After the debate is over, he approaches the vote on the proposal'. The first next session from the moment the request was submitted is this session. So, at this session, a proposal of 86 MPs had to be put in place and the Assembly would declare whether or not to put it on the agenda. That's the first one. Secondly, as Mrs Pop-Lazic said, it seems to me, what the Constitution says is a natural thing that the government can't prepare for half an hour and give it at least five days of time. So we should have put this on the agenda, we wouldn't be able to discuss it before, I think, Sunday, or Monday. No, no, it was delivered yesterday, it was Tuesday, five days, that means, on Monday, probably. But, okay, we could discuss Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, whenever. It didn't have to be the first point, it could've been the fifth point, it could've been the last point, it's being solved by the assembly majority, in the end line, we're not even interested in the government coming here unprepared. Let him prepare, let him answer the arguments that will be made here. And in doing so, I don't want to open up the essence of the story right now, and in fact, a lot of people here have mentioned that, unfortunately, it's urgent. I'm saying, unfortunately, it's urgent, because it's something I'm afraid this country isn't going to end well. So, no doubt the Constitution was broken, it's completely doubtless. I have to say another comment, I'm afraid bear service seems to the government, because this behavior of the ruling majority looks like those kids -- "Mommy, nobody broke a window." The window is, unfortunately, broken and we need to talk about it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6745	The MP, in accordance with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure, will be on the agenda of the session, which will be scheduled immediately after the end of this third session, for which we adopted the agenda, so that there will be discussions and opportunities for MPs who launch the initiative and the Government who will be prepared for that session to determine the arguments. The word has a folk MP Marina Ragus, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Serbia. Here every story about the procedure is completely unnecessary, because we all testify about the total derrogation of all democratic principles in the state of Serbia. That's what the public needs to know. The master is Mr Boris Tadic. In the state of Serbia, the opposition has been tried to be broken down by the deployment of Eulex, in the state of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, and in the first place, I address this occasion to the public and to all those who continue to think about what national interests are, every right is done. So here, directly, is the move of the American occupation. Last night we had the opportunity to hear about the fantastic victory of Barack Obama, an even more fantastic proposal – Mr. Biden for the vice president of the future U.S. government. Brothers and sisters and all who listen to us, you should know that in Serbia America comes openly, with both legs. One of the most important parts of American foreign policy is their participation in EULEX in the entire KIM territory. It was known in May 2008, but of all of you and of all of us, absolutely, the wing. Every serious debate moved from legitimate institutions and moved behind closed doors. Mr. Rupel said -- yes, EULEX will be deployed in May 2008 in the entire KIM territory, only now to discuss the legal nature of this mission. The head of Eulexa told the Albanian BBC newsroom: "Lords, I don't need the Security Council's consent, this is a technical mission for the entire KIM territory." Mr. Vuk Jeremic, who spoke in May 2008 – there is no transfer of jurisdiction from the UN to Eulex, what is he saying now? So, here you have to tell the public, who listens to us -- for the next few days you'll be witnessing the complete occupation of Boris Tadic, the complete occupation of the new American administration, what we've been warning in the last ten days, that EULEX with Americans means to us a great misunderstanding, because what a mission it is if 80 Americans participate in it. So what we should be talking about here and what we're going to talk about is not a violation of constitutional principles and members of the Rules of Procedure. In Serbia democracy has been killed and killed every day. I will not be surprised, I apologize for overcoming time, just to finish the thought, for all MPs of the opposition who asked for an emergency procedure today – to be imprisoned tomorrow in some dark cells in Serbia, only because they recognized the imagination of America, Boris Tadic and all those who cooperate in the complete kidnapping of KIM. And that's true, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6747	The proposal for a debate on confidence will be included in the agenda of the first session after the end of this third session, for which we adopted the agenda. I am sure all MPs in good health will attend that session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6748	Ladies and gentlemen, based on the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 8. The Constitution, which states that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible, and Article 182. The constitution, which states that the Republic of Serbia has the AP KIM, is seeking notice on a statement by the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security, saying: "The Solana advisers regularly travel on the trip to Brussels-Belgrade. Eulex has a mission chief, a team of experts, and this issue is addressed by diplomats." The diplomat Stefan Lehne attended talks in Belgrade last week. I wonder if Stefan Lene is the chief negotiator in connection with the deployment of the illegal Eulex mission at KIM? Generally known to have just been one of the authors of the so-called Ahtisaari plan. Also, I request a notice on Javier Solana's statement that the deployment of Eulex is expected by the end of December, based on EU documents, titled 'Joint Action'. I remind you, it is in this document that the EU says: "The goal of the Eulex is to help Kosovo authorities, judicial authorities and law enforcement services make progress towards becoming self-sustainable." Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at this context, it's clear that something is happening. It is only a question of who has changed their position with regard to KIM, Javier Solana and Stefan Lena, under pressure from our authorities, or our authorities, due to pressure from EU foreign policy officials? That is why we need to have accurate information about the Eulex negotiations. That is why we need to discuss this important issue as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6749	I ask the service to direct a stenogram of the presentation of MP Dejan Mirovic to the Ministry of KIM. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I have called for an article. 225th and 226, I'm looking for a notice, since I didn't get an answer yesterday. I wanted to speak to the President of Parliament, but since she is not here, in the meantime you have rotated, I have to ask a question – why is the request for an opinion to the International Court of Justice not addressed by an urgent procedure? Is failure to refer to an emergency procedure the reason for Serbia's request to be considered in a few years? Is, meanwhile, the task you received from the DS the possibility of creating in the Republic Parliament conditions not to discuss the application of Marty Ahtisaari's plan to form the local authorities, Mission Eulex, in KIM and prepare the authorities that will be the other party in this debate in the International Court? If there is one party that has submitted a request, and if there is another party, there is an examination. Is the answer to the fact that the urgency of the procedure is not included in this request this session today, the disrespect of the Constitution, the disrespect of MPs, the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure? A total of 108 MPs have applied for the most important issue in Serbia at the moment. You're ignoring it. Did the political, now move on to the legal field, and wait for the legal court to say – you know, we also have to classify the objections on the other side, which should be formed in the meantime, and you give them legitimacy to form, and then give us a negative solution, which is optional, to which you, on this side of the hall, will be the first to call and say, for God's sake – the International Court has so decided, we must make peace with it?- I'm sorry. Is that the legality of the procedure? Is that the legality of disrespecting the system? Is that the illegality of giving up your territory? Thank you for today's vote to show the citizens of Serbia, and when you throw from the bench to the MPs who give this issue great weight, your true face, but it is regrettable that you will not go out for this speaker and say the background of everything, that you are ready for Ischinger's proposal, that you are ready for the proposals of divided Germany, to negotiate this, if you have not already reached a common solution. I'm looking for an answer in writing, so I can comment on it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6751	People's MP, please stay behind the pay phone and say exactly who you need an explanation for the stenogram, because I didn't understand who your request was. Please come back, it's unusual, because of the stenogram, it's important for me to tell exactly who you're asking for an explanation of and what, an emergency request, to whom? I'm sorry about the return, but it's important for the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6752	There is one practice, sorry about the time, but when we specify the institution, the correspondence lasts more than 15 days and then, in the end, the institution says - we are not competent, although they are. I am asking the competent authorities for an answer, and for the President of Parliament, why did the International Court not go through an urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6753	I'm sorry for the requisition, but you'll see by looking at the stenogram that it didn't work out. Therefore, please refer the presentation of the People's MP to the request for an answer and an explanation in the re-exposure. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, already the predecessors of the SRS, as well as colleagues from the DSS, have pointed to something here that is an eclectic violation of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure. Since you are always asking for the precise MP to be heard about which members of the Rules of Procedure are being broken, the whole sixth chapter of our Rules of Procedure is being broken, and I am giving you an article. 82, 83, 84, 85, so I don't quote them, since they're long, you find out where that injury is from what I'm about to say. Namely, what's this about? I wouldn't go out for a hundred times to repeat something that's notorious and true, but, in addition to breaking the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, you're breaking both the elementary logic and you're making us here, really, unworthy human beings when you give us such unsuspecting notices. It is clear that on November 5th, at 11:45, a group of 86 MPs launched an initiative to include a debate on government confidence in the assembly debate. Now you're telling us that yesterday, November 5th, today, the 3rd session was not next. You've mixed up the session with the agenda. We were told by the President of the Assembly, when she explained - I called 31st session. We don't mind what you called 31, it's the next session again, and it can't be called anything other than the next session on November 5th. You tell us now, in the next session, someone, it will be respected. The Constitution has clearly told us, it must be debated at the next session, and what you now catch those five days, when it will be, when it can't, whether it can't, it absolutely doesn't matter. After all, it could have been included in the agenda of this session, perhaps, and as the fifth item of the agenda. That could have been done. So don't, please, make us crazy here. We're not abnormal. We know clearly that on November 5th 3, today's session is next, and it was, and we have nothing against it. We're against you not putting into the agenda, and you've been obliged by these points that I've quoted to you, and this part of the agenda. That's all I wanted. Mrs. Comic, if you're still making imbeciles out of us, we're gonna have to take this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6755	I ask the service leading the stenogram to make a correction, because the MP in the omak presentation said that the request was filed on November 5th, not on November 4, which is why his exposure is losing its meaning. Me and the Parliament understood it was four, of course. The motion to discuss the government's mistrust will be held at a session that will be scheduled, date-only. Of course, it is practically already scheduled, because it must be, right after the end of the 3rd session, the one on which we are now and for which the agenda has been adopted. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because the dignity of this high house is threatened, not only is it injured, but it is also threatened by the behaviour of the ruling nomenclature. If by any chance Vuk Karadzic had died young, then we could not have spelled, nor Cyrillic, nor Serbian, nor those of his two—read as it is written and write as you say. Here in the Constitution, which you also violently violated, in Article 130, stands unequivocally -- a motion for a vote of no confidence in the government or a single member of the government. So, we could only vote for Ivica Dacic to be removed, to be replaced by the foreign minister, because he is the most complicated in this affair about the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, so the National Assembly is considering the first session, and at the earliest five days after the proposal was submitted. So, at the earliest five days, and today's session begins, Tuesday will continue. That's quite enough, five days have passed, for the government to prepare itself, to make their conscience work, so that some of them resign because of high treason, etc. However, this is an incomparable explanation – it will be discussed at the next session. Well, this is the next session, Madam Chairman. Don't salt our brains for any of the next ones, which, eventually, may be scheduled once this one is finished. What if he goes after the Rules of Procedure and doesn't end this for another two months? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand the nerves of the yellow coalition, I understand that porch, they've got a new boss, so they don't know how to treat him. To set you free, people, Obama will not line you up, you are in charge of Manter, for you and for G17, for these so-called. Adversaries and the Socialist Party; with him you will kneel on your knees on corn, he will tell you when EULEX and what EULEX will introduce to you in Kosovo, and you will nod your head, as you always have nod, and you will finish the job. Then you will come here to tell us – well, now it's a done deal, we couldn't do anything, we invested, I don't know how much effort. The point is that just under your patronage, Eulex came to Kosovo and came to Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6757	In the appointment of this session, as well as in the address of the National Assembly President, it has been explained that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the debate on not trusting the Government will be held at the session after the end of this third session, for which we adopted the agenda. There is no violation of Article 104, but, People's MP, in your address and presentation, with the appointment of members of the parliamentary groups, there is humiliation, there is disrespect for the MPs, there is disrespect for the National Assembly. I ask you to refrain from such expressions at the speaker of the National Assembly and each of your next shows of the summit with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, especially Article 104, on how we treat each other. Given the stenogram of your presentation, you can see how you addressed the G17 MPs, DS. So that's inappropriate. Please think about it a little bit until the next call. The People's MP Marina Ragush has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6758	I should probably call in Article 104 now, but I should also call in an article. 225 and 226. I will try to make it bearable for the ruling coalition's MPs, but what's most offensive is that at these historic moments we listen to the arguments that you're trying to defend indefensiblely. We would like to talk about democratic rule, about the rule of law, about the procedure, respect for the highest legislative act that regulates all relations in this country, but simply, you don't let us, you've drawn all the arguments out of our hands. We would really like to have no arguments that we warn the people in Serbia that before him is the recognition of the Serbian government's independence of KIM, that it is ahead of him that the removal of Vojvodina from Serbia's comprehensive territory, that there is a terrible financial crisis. Mrs. Komic, we really had the best, civilized intention to talk about it and discuss it, to open a political dialogue within the system's institution. It was our wish and we tried to make it more than once, but it didn't work. I'll give you another example. It is totally unacceptable that we have been talking for a month about the terrible derogation of the fundamental human rights of the people in Serbia, that a man who tries to through the institutions of the system to elect his right to both dignity and work cannot do so, because the executive power is deaf to the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia. It's just one example. As MPs, we haven't gotten an explanation from the Department of Defense's personal department in a month. For six months, a man in Serbia, but it is only one ecultant example, cannot be voted for for his right under the system's institution. We are in a situation where our system is destroyed, that there is no rule of law here, that there is no political dialogue, and you are talking about insulting the MPs of the ruling majority. No one on this side thinks that in any ugly way they treat their colleagues who also have their lives, their dignity, their families, their friends. Here we want to open a dialogue – why is the basic democratic principle going on? We don't understand that. We do not understand how such a serious debate is being moved from the Serbian Parliament, the highest home. We do not understand how did Mr Micunovic, who was here a role model of democracy, promoting democratic principles, not automatically urge the foreign minister to answer the question of the opposition MPs, on the basis of which platforms, on the basis of which the resolutions so dramatically changed position? That's what we've been trying to figure out here for days. We're not allowed to do that. You'll agree, Mrs. Comic, I expect an answer from you too, this is the only place where we, within the framework of the system's institution, want to discuss. We're not on the street, we want to tell the people, offer concrete solutions. We express fear, we express fear, and it is our legitimate and legitimate right. What we ask you to do is, do not take away our right by insulting our dignity with indefensible explanations. I'm sorry, I'm finishing the thought, I apologize for using a little bit more time, I'm going to try not to repeat it, but this is a clear will, in fact, about Eulex and very important things, with all the members of the government present, not talking in the Assembly. That's enough answer. Any explanation is enough answer for all those people who follow us. Thank you and forgive me once again for overstepping.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6759	The debate on non-trust will be held after the end of this session, and I can only agree with you that we need the dialogue and that this dialogue can begin at the last point, that is, after the last session we adopted the agenda for, because we have received notice that there will be parliamentary issues. We believe that this point – parliamentary issues – is a great introduction for a session at which, immediately afterwards, there will be discussions about mistrust with the Government. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Paja Momchilov. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6760	I rarely call on Article 104, but now I have to call Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I think that every measure and whatever might be a reflection of some tolerance has been exaggerated. Instead of discussing what is essential and why we are in the National Assembly, we need to deal with something that is taught in entertainment. Now someone here convinces us that we could apply for this to be included in the agenda of the former session, past session, as if there was some difference between next, next or next session. But it's not the reason I called, and I have no intention of outwitting it, since that decision has already been made. It forbids anyone to say anything about the established agenda for setting the agenda. For 25 laws to bring the debate together, it is urgent, when it comes to the laws to be applied from 1 January 2010. Just to remind you, for months Boris Tadic and DS blocked the debate on KIM, while his Bogdanovic and Thaci's Bogdanovic held talks and talks over Eulex. We have heard the same excuse, as we have heard now – be patient, be nice, be gentle, start with dialogue. I don't want to have a dialogue with you. I want to have a dialogue with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is there going to be three, whether or not five, it doesn't matter at all. You can get 99%, but what's it worth when there won't be Serbia? Keep an eye on them, they're holding on to some percentages, what's "Pres", "Blic" going to publish. When you started with great popularity through the newspapers, you completely ruined the country. We're on our way not to have a country. No decision taken by the National Assembly, Boris Tadic, has respected, neither respect nor respect for the constitution, respects anything. He's acting like a breather. Then come up with something like that. How much does the Constitution have to do with him? How many Tomislav Nikolic oaths? He sits in his ergel, reads the oath, goes to his cabin, reads his oath, counts his money, and he's a smooth, fine, new Serbian right. Where? Where do you want to exercise authority? Your power begins and ends in this congregation. You have no authority on the street, you have chaos. It's beneath you to go to KIM, it's beneath your honor to talk about it, and I get it, but admit it. Today is beneath you the honor of talking about KIM, tomorrow it will be about Vojvodina, the day after tomorrow think about it. How long will it go like that? I'm not answering my business anymore. The public in Serbia has seen how everything can be justified by something that cannot possibly be justified. We've been listening to that song for months -- there are no conditions for resolution, and they are secretly negotiating. Now conditions have not been created for this, and you will see in a few days, there will be an agreement ratification law signed by Boris Tadic with the Americans, that all the potentials of the Serbian Army can be made available to the United States. What are we talking about? What dialogue? I don't want to have dialogue with you, because in that dialogue, I should be an accomplice to you, and I want to distance myself from you. I want to distance myself, I need to distance myself. Why? Because those who voted for the SRS didn't vote for it, and you took it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6761	There's no breach of Article 104. The establishment of the agenda, the vote on the agenda, has passed in line with the business provisions for this third session, which is under way, and so will be for the one after it, which will be scheduled, so that there will be a debate on non-trust with the government of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda. As for the dialogue, it is not related to the violation of Article 104, but the dialogue in this assembly must be, it is obvious. National MP Paja Momcilov wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so did MP Dragan Sormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. I understand that the answer will be that there is no injury, and here, again, as a doctor, I must say why I point to the injury of this particular member. You see, when we're dealing with patients of a particular category, then we need to determine their orientation in time, space and personality. That direction towards time here is very problematic for the leadership of this congregation. I don't think respected opposition colleagues are anything to blame for this condition and this sort of thing. Here, exclusively, the guilt lies with our leadership, and that's what we should say openly. Thank you for correcting me, on November 4th, if we take that date, the next session, she called three or two years ago, or two days ago, was exactly the one that was called on October 31st and on which you, cowardly, did not put this point on the agenda that we are proposing, which is a debate on government policymaking at KIM. It's a fact and that's why you, because of your lack of orientation in time, and you want to convince us that it's okay. We demand that our dignity be respected here and you cannot deny it to us. Why is it cowardly not to put this item on the agenda? We could discuss, not because the government's going to fall, you still have that majority, but it doesn't suit you. The topic is what bothers you very much, because taboo is to discuss KIM, the solutions that are being imposed there, violently, beyond the promises you made on pre-election myths, and then we're where we are. It's pretty clear who's gonna take it from here. Only our citizens who live on KIM will suffer. That's what's embarrassing. Not to speak in vain and not to be empty words, is evidence of a resolution that you are unable to put here for discussion, afraid of criticism and fearing, exactly what you are prepared to do. For what you are prepared to do, we have no reason not to believe that treason is the national and state interests of Serbia. That is the essence of this and, Mrs. Komic, please don't tell us – the next session is scheduled. By looking at the stenogram, that's what you told me, look. She's not scheduled. We didn't get any paper, and what you're talking about the future, well, that's how they talked for a while about giving birth to cotton in wood, on hemp, only if we continue to be in the regime, now, probably Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6763	I ask the service of the National Assembly to correct the presentation of Parliamentarian Paia Momchilov on November 31st, delivered in the lurch. Of course, the MP says he has the right to make mistakes, but on November 31st he doesn't exist. Your exposure loses meaning if I don't say correction is made, and someone has to say it in order for the stenogram to write what you must have meant, October 31st. No one can correct a stenogram at will. We're listening, we all know it's a slip, and we're entitled to a slip. I just want the stenogram to read, and when all our mandates pass, it's October 31st. Is that what you're saying? There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. A session that, possibly speaking, you fear will not be, will be scheduled, upon the notice of the President of the National Assembly, immediately after the end of this third session for which we have established the agenda. The word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6764	Article 104. I thought I wasn't talking, I answered, so I gave up. I thought the other MPs would convince you, I don't think I will. As far as I can tell, the decision was made the way it was made. It says what your relationship to the state is like. We're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure here. We're talking about a violation of the Constitution. You've broken the Constitution. What Rules of Procedure? It's still like that, by the way. It's not the beginning of a session when she's called. Today was the previous session. You completed your previous session today, and 24 hours ago, this proposal was made. This is the first one. I remind you, you're today at 15 to 11:30, finished your previous session. This is the first next one, and there's no talking there. The fact that the government hasn't given an opinion within five days, what difference does it make? You could have put this to be the last item of the agenda, and the day after tomorrow, the government could, at the session, give an opinion, if it wasn't so important to her the issue of state sovereignty and integrity, if it wasn't so important to her to hold a session today and give her an opinion. Couldn't the government do it today? Can't Parliament ask the government to hold a session? The minister is a servant of the people, and we are representatives of the people, so they need us here to serve and file accounts, not vice versa. You all the time in the assembly want to do a government service that's going to stamp out their lame laws that give us here, and that, yesterday, catastrophic budget rebalancing that's been given to this country. What does the 2009 budget matter where you also violate the Constitution and the laws? You didn't deliver it to Parliament. I'm talking to the government. What difference does it make if we don't have a state? Security Council session 11. What if this Parliament does not give its opinion on the question we are looking for - about Eulex before 11? What's going on out there? What are they doing in secret negotiations? How do we want them to come and tell us? What if 11. The Security Council says Eulex is going to Kosovo and implementing Ahtisaari's plan? Then what? We heard last night there's not gonna be a session. Was there anything more important than that? Public procurement law. Well, you spent 800 million more on the previous few months, the Joint Affairs Administration, than he predicted the budget. What's the D.A. gonna do? How can the Joint Affairs Authority spend 800,000 dinars more than what the budget predicted? What kind of public procurement did they make? What were they doing? Nothing, and now the new law on public procurement is more important than the KIM issue. Business, action, thousands of people on the street in a few days, who cares? Where's the government? She's nowhere to be found. We're going to Portugal and let's talk about the set of laws, because we want to join the European Union. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said what the DSS has been saying for years, not the Prime Minister, but the president of the state, although he and the Prime Minister are more important than effective entry into the European Union. It came from above, up there. When did he remember to say that? That's how it's gonna be, apparently, about this issue, just so it's not too late. We want to protect the state, we have the right as MPs, against irresponsible authority. Please don't deceive us anymore. What difference does it make that you're talking about the Rules of Procedure? You're breaking the Constitution, and that's the second time in seven days. First the budget, now this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6765	National MPs, the violations of the Constitution are declared by the institutions and assessed by the institutions, which can also be done on the initiative of the National Assembly. We cannot plead during the session whether or not the Constitution is damaged. Of course we have an opinion, so there's no harm to a member of this Rules of Procedure. Once again, for the sake of clarity, I will repeat the notice of the President of the National Assembly. She informed that the motion to vote non-confidentially would be included in the agenda of the first next session following the end of the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008, with due respect for the deadlines provided for in Article 130(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the deadlines provided for in Article 204(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The president also announced that after the debate on the points of the agenda, parliamentary issues would also be discussed. It also involves the activities of the MPs, both the majority and the opposition, of course, and the government's presence, which will be the introduction to hold a session of which it has given notice. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6766	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to join my fellow Members who have protested and resented the leadership, or presidency of this assembly, i.e. The organ that operates the work of our congregation broke the Constitution. I am an MP for the party which is currently an opposition, but I think all MPs see this home as their home. So also MPs from the parties who make up the ruling majority, and MPs who are currently in opposition parties. You do some damage and damage the reputation of this institution. You say the Constitution says, "in the next session." A few hours ago, the previous session was completed. Eighty-four MPs asked for a point of no confidence to be placed on the next session in the agenda, or at least to discuss the confidence of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Komic, please explain to all of us what three or four words mean to you: "at the first next session". What does the word "sent" mean to you? Is that next? How will you explain to Serbian lawmakers and citizens that this is not the next and the next? You're hiding behind the part of the sentence, which says, "The government has five days to prepare to discuss this item of the agenda." We know next session on Tuesday, so the next session doesn't start for five days. All the MPs who discussed here said it was possible to place this point, it doesn't have to be the first, it can be the last. So we leave to the government, even 20 days to prepare to talk to the MPs about what she's doing. MPs are very concerned, rightly, because they believe that Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity is at risk, not with the government's unhappiness, but with work. We hear from the media that Mr. Tadic has set some three conditions for the deployment of EULEX. Where does he get the right to come up with conditions? Who did he make a deal with? What if these conditions, according to his, are fulfilled? I assume that in 10 days, they will inform us that these three famous conditions are met and that EULEX is being moved to Kosovo and Metohija, and that Eulex, of course, will not endanger Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, so they will convince us that Eulex is not a mission designed and designed to implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan, and the Martti Ahtisaari plan means building an independent Kosovo. Can you please explain to us what the next session is? Is that January 2009?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6767	I ask the National Assembly's service to correct the presentation of the People's Parliament, Donka Banovic, is not a request with the signatures of 84, but 86 MPs, unless we have a written report that some MPs have withdrawn their signatures, which I do not believe. People's MPs get that it's very important. It is important, since the stenograms are the documentation of our work. If 86 MPs submitted the initiative, then it is important that the stenogram says there were 86. This is the basic respect of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, to make sure that the records on our work are correct. The next session is a session that will dately be scheduled after the end of the one that is under way, and on the agenda, probably only that, we will see, depending on all of us, will be a debate on the vote of mistrust to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6768	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I ask for both a notice and an explanation from the resolution ministry, therefore, the foreign ministry and all the competent ones, how the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, based on the writing of "Koha Ditore", will learn the following. During this week, Kosovo will be visited by senior NATO representatives, EU leading countries diplomacy, reminds the "Koha Ditore" paper, and says Pristina officials do not rule out the possibility that the goal of these visits is the upcoming Security Council session. The Pristina daily recalls that all meetings in Pristina take place ahead of the UN Security Council session, which will present a regular report on the situation in Kosovo, which could also discuss the status of the EU mission. Also, in Serbia there is a British foreign minister, according to media, we do not know otherwise, Mr. David Milibant. So, he is visiting Belgrade and Pristina. He should speak with Serbian Foreign Minister Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. The British Embassy in Belgrade said the focus would be on talks on Serbia's European future, improving bilateral relations, of course, and Eulex. I'm looking for an explanation - how is this possible without us finding out from the newspapers? Because of the public, why is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija extremely important to us? About 10 days ago, we also heard that, under the pressure of the international community, Mr. Walker, Helen Rant had completely falsified the report of what had happened in Račka. Racak was the cause of the most brutal demonstration of Western totalitarianism, an aggression against the SRJ, which was trying to fight the Shipatarian terrorists. The proceedings before The Hague tribunal against the Cypriot terrorists failed because the Cypriot terrorists killed witnesses. We are now hearing about the trafficking of the organs of the unfortunate Serbian living. Kosovo and Metohija are also important to us because it is the heart of Serbia, because in March the greatest saints in Kosovo and Metohija are burned. Why is it so important to us? Because it appears that the Serbian side, the Serbian Quislin government, is preparing in a brutal way, unfortunately, to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Eulex, that's what it is. Eulex is the implementation of Marty Ahtisaari's plan and that's what needs to be said to the public. It should also be said to the public that only SRS, DSS and NS MPs, no one else, debated in the country of Serbia, EULEX, since the opposition. That's enough answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6769	I ask the service to direct a stenogram of the presentation of Marine Ragush's National MP to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6770	It matters if it's 84, or 86, or 88. What matters is that it's more than 60, which predicts the Constitution, and it doesn't matter that we're all pretending here. In the Bureau of the Assembly, it seems that some illusionists, this isn't the next Assembly since yesterday, no, this isn't, but she's next there. It is important that because of the Rules of Procedure and the stenogram we be precise, we correct the MP. You're doing the intervention, so it doesn't turn out that Donka Banovic said 84, but that it turns out that she said 86, that the woman didn't make a mistake. So what? And what if one of the three conditions of Boris Tadic is that he writes on those jeeps in Kosovo, where they are in northern Kosovo, say Zubin Potok, Leposavic, Mitrovica -- UNMIK, and in the other part of Kosovo -- Eulex? It's his only condition. For example, what if it's a condition that the Serbs don't have EULEX, that they don't have eyes, and in those environments where most Albanians are, do they write Eulex? That's not the point. For me, Uroševac and Prizren are the same Serbia as Sudotica, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Zubin Potok, Mitrovica or Strpce. Maybe it's not for someone? Get someone out of the congregation to say he didn't. Eulex is unacceptable in the whole territory of Serbia and Kosovo, and point. It is the December 2007 Parliament's decision, when one of the Deputy Prime Ministers told the Prime Minister and then the Prime Minister: "Who gives you the right to say that we will not use the Army to defend Kosovo". That was less than a year ago. What's going on now, people? What's this about? You are violating the Constitution brutally, twice in a few days: the budget and this initiative of MPs. Don't worry about the citizens of Serbia. "Livnica" Kikinda, Cačak, "Vital", 232 workers were fired in one day, including married couples. So much for the socially responsible government and social policy. So, married couples, the whole family's out of income. At least it's been taken care of. No, I don't. Who protects these people, you? I see you spend more money on papers for the government than the State Department spends in America. Guys, this is the most important possible question - do we have a state, or do we not have a state? Eulex is coming, you can make all the makeup you want, bring the cops, bring the judges, bring the prosecutors, bring the border guards. What do they do there if they don't make a state? Of course they bring them, since those who rule in Kosovo are in those Albanian institutions in Kosovo, neither do I, criminals. How do they organize the police? They were finishing schools in the basements. Which one of them should be the judge, the prosecutor? Now we need to make up something to make it acceptable for Serbia to continue European integration. What should we continue with, with which state, with which borders, who will take us? Do we want to go in such a situation? Yes, Mr. Ruzic, for four minutes, I apologize for extending the minute, but if it continues like this, I will report 50 more times today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6771	When setting out the agenda for today's session, as well as notices that this will enter the agenda of the session, which will be scheduled immediately after the end of this session, the Third Session of the Second Regular Session, which is under way, has not been broken by any member of the Rules of Procedure, is all done in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The misunderstanding, which we obviously have, about the service that runs the stenogram, I ask that, due to the obvious failure, there were no 84 but 86 MPs, in this case, there will obviously be a misunderstanding. It's my duty. If we don't understand that it's important for the correct record to remain about us and our work, which is why I ask the service to correct the obvious slip, and if we don't understand that the stenographic service has no right to correct the exhibit on its own, then there will be a misunderstanding. It is your right to say that because I intervene on the correction in the stenogram, I violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It can be declared by the National Assembly in the day of the vote, which will be set after the end of this third session, followed by a session that will begin to propose a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Dobrislav Prelic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), so MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6772	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, Mr. Krasic called on Serbian citizens to watch the Assembly. This is the only place, this pay phone, where the opposition in this parliament can present to Serbian citizens what the assembly majority is doing. Even Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, on several occasions, simply replied to the opposition's MPs: "the general majority does not think so". Today, the congregation majority gathered in the O.R. because there was a vote. It's the only chance we can see the MPs of the congregation majority in the O.R. When opposition MPs came out to talk about the most undoubtedly important issue in Serbia, they joked, threw away, so it's very good for Serbian citizens to see it. It is more than clear that Boris Tadic gave up KIM. He continues to carry out the task put before him by the United States and individual EU countries. As you can see here in the Assembly, this initiative has been launched by 86 MPs? What's 86 for? Because Mr Tadic saw that his congregation majority was not stable. You can see that Nenad Canak, a little bit, so pops out, so there are national minorities, but that's why he's here to support Tomislav Nikolic's thief and steal the mandate of the SRS, which is his golden reserve. To the citizens of Serbia, above all, I would like to send a message to the citizens of these four municipalities where the elections are now: Rume, Vrenjačka Banja, Književec and Prijepolje, I would like to send a message from this pay phone – citizens of these municipalities, do not vote in favour of this treasonous coalition. You will see that after the election, in all possible ways, they will try to make the authorities of DS and Tomislav Nikolic. Vote for the SRS because only the SRS is guaranteed a better life in Serbia and its president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Mrs. Comic, if you'll let me know, but to tell me honestly what you think, not how you have to. I ask one question both to you and to the congregation: how can you keep all those who come after us, and in the remembrance of those who have left us all and who are no more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6773	The People's Messenger Dobrislava Prelicu, by work, by continuous work and by learning, by knowledge. I'm telling you honestly, I can't be more honest with you than this. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branko Ruzic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6774	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been mentioned here by one MP and I am using the right to replication, as well as to point out the fact that we have been speaking in the Rules of Procedure for two hours now, that the initiators of this act concerning the debate on non-confidential voting want to convince us, as legalists, that we are violating the Constitution, which is simply not true. That's what they know very well. They want to convince us that we are betraying Kosovo. Remember Flyor Brovine, remember the Ship's terrorists, remember that year in 2001. They want to convince us that we can go back on some time machine, at a time before 11 May, which, again, is not possible. If you were to shed so much tears over KiM, why didn't you take responsibility, there wouldn't be a choice. You had a mandate, you had a majority. The government could have been formed by you who initiated this debate. But you didn't do it. So, I simply ask you, Madam Chairman, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given that it has already been 14 hours, allow the representatives of the parliamentary majority to rest a little from this disturbing announcement by those who have initiated the debate on the vote of non-confidentiality to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, this initiative is very welcome, at least as far as we're concerned by the SPS. We can't wait for this debate to begin at the first session, in accordance with the procedure defined by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course it's an obligation for both you and the opposition and us from the parliamentary majority to fight with arguments for what we are initiating. Time, I remind you, we can't go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6775	National MP Slobodan Samardzic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). After him is National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6776	This, gentlemen, is not a serious enough debate on this subject. First of all, I'm going to warn Madam Vice President of one of my shorts when I first spoke, and she didn't warn me. I said 88 MPs signed, and 86 MPs signed it. To correct himself for a stenogram. So, let me start with the big one. Now I'm going to say something irrelevant. That is, therefore, the fact that this assembly does not discuss Kosovo and Metohija on the basis of its agenda. She has been discussing it for three or four months because the opposition is advertising the Rules of Procedure. It is an honor for this congregation, i.e. to her majority, who gives a ton to the work of the Assembly. So this is about Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure – on the preservation of the dignity of the Assembly. She has to deal with her question. We might have finished this topic two months ago, maybe even in July, when we asked for a debate about 108 signatures for the resolution we gave, but you didn't give it. Perhaps we would have adopted some agreed resolution if we had had had had a normal discussion a day or two about this matter and perhaps we would not have come to an extortion to seek a debate about Kosovo over the government's non-confidential vote. We have resorted to this, not to vote against the government, although that is also our goal, we know that this is impossible, that there is a majority who is loyal and faithful to the government, but to get time to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. It is a disgrace to this congregation and a violation of the dignity of this congregation. Please, let's get serious. These are extremely serious initiatives. We've talked about this more than once, not to waste time, but to somehow make time to tell this public what it is. It is a shame that the public is informed about the Eulex talks, which are fatal for Kosovo and Metohija, and the six-point discussion, the topic is not quite clear, from foreign sources. We don't have direct sources of intelligence. We do not have statements from the foreign ministry, we do not have statements from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. No government statement from the President of the Republic's office. They're all talking and negotiating these things. We're getting word from Koha Ditore, what we heard today, we're getting word from Kristina Galjak, from Andrew Landley, from some names that I find difficult and to say, and by leaking it to our newspaper, which they neatly convey something that someone said, some spokesman for the State Department or Javier Solana. Look at the position this assembly has put itself in with regard to Kosovo and Metohija. If she had opened a debate on the resolution in July, I say, maybe we wouldn't have come into this situation. You see, it's the will of the majority, parliamentary, not minorities, not the opposition. We're just looking for time to discuss. Who knows how long this is gonna take. Today we are persecuted for what is the next session of the congregation. Please, it's an elementary, common sense, if yesterday's request was filed, and that session didn't start, the next session, it only starts in 24 hours, it's the next session. Our vice president here convinces some quasilogical gymnastics that the next one is next. It doesn't matter. What matters is what this parliament has come to on this issue, and it could save time and for what most care about, that the peaceful, well, perhaps, and by the accelerated procedure, these laws needed for European integration are adopted. You're always honoring us for obstruction. You're self-absorbing without knowing it. You, out of spite or out of some order, will not allow the Assembly to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. That's not how you do it. It seems, in fact, through a resolution or through a request, and we started discussing it today, or in five days, about it. We might start it, or some of the jokes we're used to, we'll put it off again. We don't know that. What is essential is that the Assembly must discuss it and that Serbian citizens must know who, where and how to discuss the deployment of Eulex. Eulex knows what his mandate is, what his goal is. It's all clear. It is clear, therefore, that only Serbia needs to lie down ore. That's what's happening these days. We don't discuss it. We want a debate and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6777	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. So there is only one proposal from 86 MPs, and this is a proposal to vote for mistrust to the government. In one I am completely in agreement with you, that this is not a debate. You brought out here the information that you and the government are not going to vote not to trust, but to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the service to deliver to MP Slobodan Samardzic a stenogram of his presentation. So, you said that your intention is to talk about Kosovo and Metohija, because you know that you do not have a majority to vote for mistrust with the government and that it is to demean the National Assembly which must be discussed through the infringements of the Rules of Procedure about Kosovo and Metohija. It is my duty to make sure that the Rules of Procedure doesn't get hurt in any of their members. I can only repeat that an application has been submitted, or a motion for a vote of no confidence to the government. No one here has had a motion for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, nor a proposal for any debate on Kosovo and Metohija or on Eulex, so that there is no confusion about what we call upon when we talk about the demeaning of the National Assembly and Article 104 which is not injured. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6778	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure, violation of Parliament's dignity, and I ask that the Assembly be declared, not given me every time by the vice president to interpret what I wanted. Simply, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 104 has been injured, because if something is repeatedly spoken that is unclear and untrue, it does not become clear and true, but only repeatedly spoken vaguely and untrue. Now I'm going to look back at what I actually answered. The MP, Mrs. Donka Banovic, said 84 MPs signed a proposal to put trust points on the agenda, i.e. a vote of mistrust to the government. She made a terrible mistake. Judging from how many times the vice president made that mistake, it seems to be an incredibly important fact, whether it is 84 or 86 MPs. Given that its failure was to sign 86 MPs, the DSS will, as a parliamentary party, have a serious talk with its MP, to see what caused the mistake. I wonder, who and how will talk seriously to those who do not want to talk about the betrayal of their country, those who sell 15% of their territories and put in a fine cellophane, to explain to us that EULEX is something that is very good for our country, not something that is the signing of the sale of their country. With some, of course, just that we don't know anything about it, they would say. What's also important is that this home, which is most important in this country, gets information about the sale of 15% of its territory from the media, reading newspapers from foreign sources, and not from those who don't tell the truth when they're being asked about it. The president says -- he does not negotiate the arrival of EULEX, the minister says he does not negotiate, the vice presidents say -- they do not negotiate this, the KIM minister also does not negotiate. If you're reading the media, if you're watching TV, you can see that foreign sources claim that they're negotiating with our representatives of the government about it. So the question is, who's lying to us? None of our representatives of the government told these foreign sources – it's not true. So it's true. It's important for our citizens not to talk about it that way. I would not comment further on what we MPs are experiencing, so what is most important at this time for this country, which is the betrayal of this country, by bringing Eulex to Kosovo. I wouldn't comment on the fact that the debate isn't being held here. It's scandalous, it's a shame, it's a violation of all the elementary laws and constitutions. I don't know if we're breaking the Rules of Procedure or not. We're talking about Kosovo, it's a shame, it has to be the first and only item on the agenda we're discussing. I wouldn't comment on what that tired MP said here, who wants to rest and make arguments about what he's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6779	People's MPs, I once asked once after Donka Banovic's national MP to be corrected in a stenogram, once. Afterwards, MP Dragan Shormaz sought the violation of the Rules of Procedure, deeming it irrelevant what was written in the stenogram and what was said. That's when I answered why I had to say, the truth is, it's not 84, it's 86 MPs, nothing more, and nothing less. It's a routine business obligation, which I'll do every time I hear a drop was made out of data that doesn't match the facts or that devises the presentation of the MP. Why should he stay in the stenogram with no date or no number, nothing more and nothing less? Has anyone else called to say anything? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Shormaz, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6780	I see again that tired MPs can't stand it, even though we of the opposition spoke the other night until 12.15 and Friday to 30. I know I finished Monday, i.e. Tuesday morning, the debate, so I'm not tired. When it comes to KIM, I'm not tired and I don't want to sleep at all until I fall. I'm not like a junior SPS MP to be tired. So, let's see who's really going crazy all the time. Now, as we discuss here, Solana spoke to the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee. Here's what the man says, I apologize to the viewers for having to do this, but, in favour of the discussion, I read from our news, so "Monda" -- the EU's key priority is the deployment of Eulex and we expect this deployment throughout Kosovo in December. Now, Minister Jeremic says only Ban Ki Moon is being held, and watch what Solana says -- we are having a very intense dialogue with Belgrade on Eulex, and at the same time we are looking for a way to bring Serbia closer to the EU. In the same debate, Doris Pak, the legendary head of the European Parliament delegation for Southeast Europe, where we belong, says this - we intend to work with EULEX in the interest of all people living there, in the first place, Kosovo Serbs. It is the implementation of the Martti Ahtisaari plan and what is in the Kosovo Constitution. What more do we have to talk about? And she says, in Serbia these days, hopefully, a modus vivendi will be found, though, she says she hopes, so that Mission Eulex can start working. The mission is necessary because the judicial system in Kosovo has indeed failed. People talk, here, I just said how not to let Eulex come when the Albanians can't, how they can make courts down there, the prosecution, the police. So, the estimates are, and we all know that, first of all, the State Department, which then favours the European Union to work, that it takes another five years in Kosovo to establish a state on every square centimetre, a state in the right sense of that word, but if Serbia does not create problems and if the EU helps them, because they do not have the capacity inside to build a state, because they are criminals. The other day, police caught them moving drugs across the border. So, there it is known what is, produced in Afghanistan by drugs, where 70,000 NATO soldiers are, and across Kosovo, where 16,000 NATO soldiers are distributed to the EU, which has three million addicts, not users, but addicts, who know how many users there are. It is business and, of course, Afghanistan was the first to recognise Kosovo. Now that we have this whole situation, people are openly telling us that we shouldn't discuss it in Parliament, because we don't know if this is next, or whether it's next session there. That's the first thing. Second, the 11th is certainly a session of the Security Council. Are we even going to continue this session by 11:00? Are we going to finish it? What if he suddenly ceases to be a tired junior MP of the SPS, then comes out for a pay phone, and he starts out -- judicial laws, public procurement, so that we should get it in order, and we welcome 15th, 20th of November, and then the next session, until he gets tired again? Then what? And, for example, the 11th is making a decision that is not in Serbia's interest. Well, doesn't it have to be before 11? Well, isn't it logical that before the 11th Parliament becomes aware of this issue, that the government knows what to do next, not the President of the Republic, I don't care. So the government needs to know what to do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-05-0.u6781	For today, we finish our work and continue our session on November 11th, 10:00 p.m. I thank the Members of the People.
