ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6622	President-in-Office, Honored Presidency, Honored fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by members of 225 and 226. In a situation where the headlines of today's entire Serbian press are unequivocally showing what is happening in Serbia, when the situation of the economic crisis and the messages and recommendations of the IMF, and on pensions, and on wages, is such a daunting over Serbia, the government acts as if nothing is still happening. Yesterday, we already informed those who are pretending not to know what happened in the last month, that within a very short time, 1,000 people have lost their jobs in all four companies: the Pančeva brewery, Livnica's "Kikinda", Vital "Verbas" and "Foreign Industry" in Cačka, together with almost 1,000 people remained on the street. What happened at the Pancheva brewery is legitimate interest of the owner, or Heineken. It is perfectly normal for them, but not for us, to now be produced in Romania or Hungary, to use it, and to sell beer in Serbia, not to pay customs duties, because we have made it possible to unilaterally apply the SAA. As for Livnica "Kikinda", which is owned by the French, if in France in one day 150 workers remained on the street it would be breaking news in all the electronic and printed media throughout France. But Sarkozy is thinking about his government's social policy, and our government doesn't know what he's saying, because this data hides like a snake's foot. There's a special story called "the Dedicated Industry" in Chačka. Our government does not coordinate anything. There is no co-ordination between reforming the defence system and Serbia's foreign policy performance, on the one hand, and restructuring of the dedicated production, on the other. Because of the lack of any strategy, this had to happen. Hundreds and hundreds of workers remain on the street. I would remind you that Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said that the recession is not a big deal, that it opens up new opportunities, which reminds us of that statement by Slobodan Milosevic when we were imposed sanctions, when he said – the sanctions are our chance. Here's the chance of sanctions at the time, that's our chance in recession: people on the streets. The IMF today, all of our presses wrote about it, told you what we told you: that pension in Serbia is 70% of personal income, there is no theoretical chance, let alone practical. Gentlemen pensioners, now you see... (President: Time) One and one are always two, not three. These reasons... (President: Mr. Tomic, speak for a minute and a little longer. Please finish. ..... I apologize, in any case, for these reasons and others, which my colleagues from the DSS will present, are sufficient for the Assembly to have an urgent debate about the government's shift, which has proved extremely incompetent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6623	Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, then Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6624	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226 because I need a notice, which is very important for my work as an MP. I am pleased to say that the IMF, which came to our country on 28 October, confirmed what the DSS, as an opposition party, is saying, and that is very important for our public as well. The IMF said the same thing we did – raising pensions 70% of the average personal income in 2009 is impossible. It is impossible because it would endanger our country, reduce investment, and because, without that pension increase, the IMF says the 2009 budget deficit will be 50 billion dinars. I have to call on Mr Jelasic's statement, which says, in an interview, that if he had his hands off for the 2009 budget, he would freeze wages and pensions, because he would just stop inflation and cut public spending. Otherwise, he says, Serbia is ill-written. So both the position and the opposition are saying the same thing. Mr. Jelasic, as governor, says the same thing the DSS says. Inflation movements are such that this country, indeed, is ill-written if the government does not take what we say to it. Of course, that's what economists and responsible opposition say. But it seems to me that the government is not following economic logic, but political logic, and for it, pension is not an economic issue, but a political issue. They've got power right on this promise. We have a Deputy Prime Minister who only talks about it and only deals with that category. But he says he has some logic and some economics, with the help he calculates that an increase in pensions to 70% of personal income is possible. His latest statement is that the pension adjustment must be a little time-shift, but the programme will remain the same. In other words, he will inherit his pre-election promise, who knows how much more, until this people finally realize that there is nothing out of that promise. Clearly, Mr. Krkobic and the Serbian government have called the IMF as an alibi and will say that the global economic crisis, which is otherwise not recognised by Minister Dinkic and says that only the benefit will bring to this country, is guilty that the pre-election promise of Mr. Krkobic and a small coalition, and then the big coalition, will remain a legacy in the future and there will always be a story that will be opened before the elections, but since it does not exist now, it will not be in the future either. It's just impossible for pensions to be 70% personal income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6625	Thank you. The word is Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6626	Your Honor, I'm calling on Article 226, and I hope I don't need to quote it. I ask my fellow Members for some silence, because you will see that this is a very important question that I want to ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6627	Gentlemen, please be quiet, you are interrupting Mr Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6628	I ask the defence minister and the commander-in-chief of Serbia's army, the topic is the Technical Remont Institute in Cačka. In the city of Cačka, 31. On the 10th of this year, for the workers of the Remont, there was a Black Friday. After 60 years, one factory was closed, where 361 workers were out of work, and the others were sent on a forced vacation. Yesterday when they came to work, they found factory gates in chains. No one knows by whose authority the military officer, the director, fired these people. Among these people are those who have averaged over 30 years, there are several single mothers with three and more children. It is rumored to be on the orders of a defence minister who, as far as I know, is currently on a tourist trip to the Far East. I ask the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Serbian Army: what are they really up to with the Army of Serbia and the "Foreign Industry"? I don't think I should remind you that I come from the city of Major Gavrilovic and Duke Steph. Unfortunately, they're dead in the grave, what's going on with our army. In the town of Chačka, after more than 100 years, all the barracks were closed, the Black Friday came on October 31st. I'm looking for an answer during the day, because there's workers preparing for strikes, but not simple strikes, but hunger strikes. No one's given them any notice. They came to work like every Monday, and they came across gates closed with chains and locks. And what's most interesting is that you've all been hearing this information, the last days and months at drastic price purchases, have you noticed that the Independent Union isn't answering? No union reaction. Is that why, Mr. Micunovic, your own nephew is the president of the Independent Union? Is this the gentleman who brought our very president, but as president of the DS, among the workers in Belgrade, so the cobras had to save him alive? Do you think you can continue with the pride of our people, with the Army of Serbia, with the "Foreign Industry", with 5,000 workers working in the industry, to behave like this. I ask for answers from the defence minister and military commander - what are they up to with the rest of the barracks, what are they up to with 5,000 workers working in the Purpose Industry? I don't want to keep my mouth shut all day. [[(Applause) (Disabled microphone.)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6629	The word has Mrs. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6630	Madam President, the presidency, the honourable MPs, I just wanted to say which amendments were accepted. The amendments to Miroslav Markic's amendment, with the correction that no more confusion was accepted, were also accepted by MPs Milica Radovic's amendment, in the end, the amendment of the group of MPs: Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Lasla Varge, Esada Judjevic and Bajram Omeragic. The amendment of MPs Judita Popovic will be accepted conditionally if delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6631	Thank you. The word is Mr. Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6632	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice per article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Commissioner for Refugees; information on how negotiations between the Serbian and Croatian parties are under way on the return of the right of refugees and the exiled population from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. These negotiations are secret, they have no transparency and what you stand for. If we are talking about the return of rights we must open a story with the Croatian side and say openly that Croatians do not return rights; in terms of property 5%, as regards return 5%, in terms of housing rights nothing, in terms of actions nothing and so on. Croatians have been warned by the European Commission, as well as by Serbs, in the European Commission's 2008 report, in terms of failing to implement refugee returns and the return of lost, seized and kidnapped rights. It only takes the Croats two years to distract the Serbs, when they enter the European Union, then we forget everything. I'm warning the current government - don't secretly negotiate! We have signed several agreements with the Croats and it is the government's task to implement them. On behalf of the refugee Corps, I call upon all who are now negotiating to come to this pay phone and explain what is being negotiated and why secretly. The current government's task is to implement an agreement on normalising the relationship guaranteeing a safe, secure return of the Serb population to its hearth, the return of social and property rights. The Succession Agreement has returned all rights acquired since 1991. Take this seriously! The current government's task is to open a public debate with Croats, with the intervention of the international community. I recommend an international conference under the UN Charter. All disputes in the world are resolved by a peace conference. This conflict between Serbs and Croats in the 1990s has not been resolved by an international conference on peace, which should resolve all issues that have caused war and the consequences of war. So, the international conference and seriously sit with the Croats and warn them. It's been 15 years. You haven't returned any of your rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6633	Mr. Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6634	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, I request a notice from the Republic's public prosecutor, from the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia and from the court responsible in Belgrade who is conducting an investigation against Miladin Kovacevic. The injustice is being conducted according to Miladin Kovacevic, a honourist, born in Serbia in 1987, who finished his primary school in Kula with all five, the Sport High School ended in Belgrade in 2001 with excellent success. Miladin Kovacevic's potential has also been confirmed in US schools, with excellent results in the state of New York. Playing basketball at the Birkets University Club as a kind and talented basketball player, he hurt his spine, which is why he had to stop training. Ladies and gentlemen, injustice at work! An American bully came across Miladin Kovacevic for a girl, and then physical contact occurred. This incident has turned into an interstate incident. As a rule, Serbs are presented as bad guys by who knows which way to "fair" Americans. (President: Please allow the speaker to finish. ) Americans arrested Miladin Kovacevic in May 2008, who was released from custody on bail. Serbia's consul in America, Igor Milosevic, issued a new travel document by Kovacevic, who came to Serbia's mother. Interpol issued a red warrant for Kovacevic on July 8th, which means if it leaves Serbia's borders, it will be handed over to US authorities. A diplomatic correspondence followed from both sides, US and Serbian. Brian's father, the guy who attacked Miladin Kovacevic and his girlfriend, through his ties with the Democrats, and Senator Hillary Clinton, and former President Bill Clinton, raises this random highest level, so that Miladin Kovacevic was an inevitable topic of all global TV stations and the largest American newspapers and magazines. (President: Time. I'll get back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6635	Mr. Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jojic, what you were talking about is really not information that will allow you to work, practically, it's a parliamentary question. I understand that you can, you're a good lawyer and you know that's not it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6636	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I've been going out and asking questions here on a few occasions, based on an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, a question for the Prime Minister – what does the Government do about these trends that indicate that the reference interest rate is increasing, because in just a week it jumped from 15.75 to 17.75%? That's a 2% increase. If we look at the parameters from the whole year, it's about 7%. It is indicative that the interest on savings in individual banks, I will only mention "Unicredited Bank", is already going to 12% and the interest on loans in certain banks is already going to 26%. It's obvious that money in this country is becoming extremely expensive and that it's not there. Yesterday we heard the information that citizens are currently most wanted for safes. Citizens no longer have confidence in banks, money is held in safes and in the opinion of some eminent economists, money becomes, practically, such that it has the value of gold. I think it's all reflected in the economy. There are also amongst the ruling majority MPs a large number of people who are also businessmen, and I am surprised that there is no clear orientation of the ruling majority that it is necessary to establish a committee to overcome the economic crisis as quickly as possible. I think the consequences of Serbia's citizens are great. We've got over a thousand people out of work in two days. There's a lot of indifference between economic operators. There's no obligation to pay, there's a deficit in money. The only question is how many citizens are going to be out of work tomorrow as a result of this crisis. I think this government is being extremely irresponsible, that that's why we're here to discuss the trust of the Government. It's this attitude towards the citizens, the crisis that affects our society, our economy... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... One moment, I'm done. The DSS has come out with a request to urgently form a commission and I think it's the last moment to do so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6637	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic, again according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6638	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like you to allow me to continue what I was about to say. Senator Clinton asked companies sponsoring Serbia's basketball to suspend donations, which was only done by the Hemofarm peers. You may think that Hemofarm's peers also accepted these sanctions from America and Mrs. Clinton. Miladin Kovacevic, as a student, had to have his own legal protection under US law, but when he was arrested, he was denied that right. The Americans didn't even allow him to be represented by a lawyer on official duty. When he was arrested in America, he was still a minor, and the Americans didn't even follow the basic rule of pre-criminal procedure to inform his parents about the arrest of Miladin. When parents inquired at the American embassy about what happened to their son, they were told that Miladina would put on a red warrant from the FBI and that it would cause problems throughout her life. US media linked Miladin's father to Milosevic's regime, adding an epithet of "Milosevic's Surgeon and Butcher". In the case of Miladin Kovacevic, I ask that the principle of reciprocity be respected. That means Kovacevic can't be held accountable for anything he's done in America unless the US citizens answer to the same thing in Serbia. The Americans in the world can also commit the gravest crimes and genocide against the peoples, as they did towards the SFRY, the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, but they don't respond to anyone. I propose to the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Belgrade competent court, which has ordered detention against Miladin Kovacevic, to review its decision on determining detention and to release Miladin Kovacevic, as it is an international injustice. Our judicial authorities should not judge Miladina Kovacevic unless we have tried Bill Clinton, former US President, for the genocide he committed against Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6639	On Article 5, section 25, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 2(2), paragraphs 6 and 7. Budgetary system law. Mr. Kragovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6640	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. The amendment reads: "In Article 5, division 25, function 110, in EC 472, column 6, the amount of 965 million is replaced by 559 million, and in column 8 the amount of 965,415.297 dinars is replaced by 559,415,297 dinars. Section 25, after Chapter 25.1, adds a new chapter 25.2, which reads: The Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija" continues to list the funds necessary for the work of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. The reason for proposing this amendment is in the SRS's position to introduce the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities, for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given its consent, as a community involving all municipalities formed after the 11 May 2008 elections. The position of the SRS is that it is necessary to provide funds for the work of the Serbian institution totaling 6 million dinars, for the work of professional services and for the functioning of this institution. At the same time, we propose that the funds, as a form of social assistance, be allocated to families of murdered and kidnapped persons in Kosovo and Metohija from 1998 to today, amounting to 400 million dinars. The situation of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is very difficult, and families who have lost their closest are in the most difficult financial and social situation. The social assistance we propose is direct assistance to families who have lost their loved ones, and this type of assistance is the support and survival of the Serbian people in the cradle of Serbia - Kosovo and Metohija. Social assistance is at the same time a sign of resistance and support in the daily fight against all enemies of the Serbian people who are numerous, and we find them in the ranks of the hostiles of the Shipars, as well as the unobstructed military and security forces of the international community. Representatives of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly know the situation best on the ground, and these funds will also be shared through this institution to deliver the greatest results and the greatest effects. I would also refer to the reply of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the amendment is not accepted 'cause it is proposed that the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija prove to be a beneficiary of the budget, which is contrary to Article 2(2) of point 6 and 7. The law on the budgetary system, which defines direct beneficiaries of the budgetary resources of the authorities and organisations of the Republic, and indirect users of the judicial authorities, institutions established by the Republic, as well as budgetary funds. Also, this amendment cannot be accepted because, within the framework of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, significant funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget (4,274,714,000 dinars) for transfers to other levels of government, i.e. municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, funds for compensation for social protection from the budget (965 million dinars). The bill has just defined additional funds to the EC 463 - transfers to other levels of government to finance salaries of newly employed local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija (350 new jobs). "As a folk MP, and all the Serbs who stayed to live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, I am simply dissatisfied with this relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija. After the constitution of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija on June 28th in Kosovo, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted and recognised the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. I'll read it to you one more time. So, "The Official Messenger" of 11 July 2008, number 68, the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, conclusion 1344: "Departing from the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly determines that the AP Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that it originates from such a position of Kosovo and Metohija: that all state authorities, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have a constitutional obligation to represent and protect the state interests of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija; that the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija was founded on 28 June 2008 in Kosovo Mitrovica, with the presence of MPs (alders) from 25 municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija, on the basis of the results of the Community of the municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija constitutionalised on the basis of the results of the elections of the local self-government in Kosovo and of Serbia, the 11th year, which were announced by the Kosovo and the Republic of Kosovo. The Kosovo Constitution created the need for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to be institutionally organised; to protect the security of Serbs and all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija; to encourage Serbia's efforts to reach a permanent solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status within the borders of the Republic of Serbia." "According to Article 97(1) and Article 182(2), paragraph 2. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 43(3) The Law on Government, the Government concludes on support for the establishment of the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija: 1) is supporting the establishment of the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija, which was founded on 28 June 2008 in Kosovo Mitrovica; 2) the Government and this conclusion confirms that the AP Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of the unique and indivisible constitutional and state-law order of the Republic of Serbia and confirms their willingness to implement the Constitution and laws in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the entire legal order of the Republic of Serbia; 3) to publish this conclusion in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"; the Government, President Mirko Cvetkovic, s.r." Does this mean that the government of the Republic of Serbia is so broad-minded that it supports the efforts of the Serb people in KIM to self-organize, but that it does not want to separate any single dinar so that the Serbian institution in Kosovo and Metohija functions? You must all be aware that there are no sources of income down there so that we can finance this assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija Community. The people of Kosovo and Metohija are not in that position that they can do it on their own. It is currently being done by a volunteer 45 delegates and 25 municipal presidents, who, by the day-to-day, after six months, have not received any personal income, although they were elected to those functions six months ago. As long as the government thinks the Serbian people down there are self-organizing, gathering and creating, and it is supporting but only verbal support? We need that other thing, and that's material support. We are not looking for any money from any section, we are looking for the funds provided for by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, and we are asking for a portion of the funds to be directed to function for the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. We ask that the funds provided for providing social assistance be given to this particular assembly, because who can better see the situation that needs the resources and needs these social benefits than 45 delegates from 25 municipalities and 25 community presidents attending each session. We hold sessions regularly. We're currently in the process of collecting the Stop Eulex petition. The petition gathers massively in Kosovo and Metohija. We announced that already on 11 May we would deliver the petition to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to the president of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the Russian Embassy in Belgrade. However, for all these activities, funds are needed for all this work, it is necessary to strengthen Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, so that the Serbian people and other non-Albanians feel they have someone who wants to represent their interests. So I don't understand the government's response that it doesn't want to separate the minimum funds so that the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija can work. I think if a failure was made here and this amendment was rejected, this could be corrected in the voting day. The MPs will actually vote in favour of the amendment to the vote that one Serbian institution, in fact the largest Serbian institution in Kosovo and Metohija, is funding from the Republika Srpska budget. So I ask you to reconsider before deciding how you will vote in the voting day. I would ask once again the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to do this failure in the 2009 budget to find minimum funds. Whether those funds are going to be 100 dinars or 100,000, or millions of dinars, it doesn't matter at all. It is important to us that we have minimum funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are not looking for funds, as your Deputy Prime Ministers ask that they have multiple cabinets, multiple security services, multiple secretaries, multiple drivers, to be met at every turn by the elite and escorts. We are looking for minimum funds so that we can hold regular meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assemblys, both in Kosovo Mitrovica and in Gracanica, and in Ranilug, as well as in Strpci. For all of this, we need one minimum of resources. It's not some big, huge asset to get the government to worry about. It is one of the minimum minimum obligations of this assembly, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia to allow the use of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You made a decision and you accepted our assembly, and you agreed to it, and you gave us support. But aside from verbal support, I expect material support, given the situation in which the Serb people are in Kosovo and Metohija. Once again, I would like to appeal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to reason, to think, to call on their minds and to separate this minimum of money so that a Serbian institution could function. Ladies and gentlemen, with one note, all the political parties sitting in this parliament were represented in the assembly and participated in elections in Kosovo and Metohija. In the assembly, the vice-presidential seat is one from the DSS, the other from the DS, the third from the SRS. There are MPs from national minorities, Gorans, Roma, Muslims, with a representative of the G17. All those involved in political life in Kosovo and Metohija are represented in the assembly. All of them are for this congregation to live. The government's up for it. The National Assembly is for that, but we don't give you any money. I just can't figure it out. It's like sending an ambassador to America. Go to America, you'll be an ambassador, but you won't have any money, you can get there as well as you can. It would probably be a lot easier for that ambassador in America to get the funds. It's very difficult for us. We can't ask for funds. Our only source of income is the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're not asking us to ask the government of Kosovo to fund it, are you? Or what's even worse, to ask UNMIK for funds, KFOR. This assembly was also recognised by a mission illegally installed in Kosovo and Metohija, Mission Eulexa. We don't want to cooperate with them. We don't need money from the occupiers, we don't need money from the Cypriot terrorists from Kosovo. We need it if budget users can allocate minimum funds to allow the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija to finance, so that we have one body that would lead to the problem of all municipalities in which Serbs have their representatives legally and formed SO. If you do not allow us to finance ourselves from the budget, at least allow the presidents of the municipalities, vice-presidents of the municipality, the president of the assembly, the deputy president of the SO and members of the municipal council to receive personal incomes. Then somehow we will finance ourselves, if you remain deaf and silent on all these appeals and do not want to help the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. If you don't want to, there's some other possibility we have of asking someone else for funds. (Chairman (Gordana Komic): Fifteen minutes and 30 seconds. ) We will not ask KFOR for these funds, nor UNMIK, nor Eulex, nor the illegal Shiparian institutions. We will address the brothers in Russia, we will address Putin and Medvedev... (President: 16 minutes. )......................................................................................................... I guess they will listen and give us a minimum of funding from a few million dinars so that the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija can function.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6641	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100. National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6642	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to be based on an article. In 225 and 226, I will join the appeal and request of the People's MP, Mr Milorad Buha. Perhaps Madam Minister doesn't know, Mr. Buha is the Prime Minister of the Serbian Krajina in exile. It was a circled continent of the western Serb republic and unfortunately Mr. Buha, as well as half a million of our countrymen, came to his mother Serbia to defend herself against the terrors of the Ustasha Croatian authorities in the way he does it as an MP for the SRS. Along with the people who were legitimately elected, as well as the president of the state, and the president of parliament, and the MPs of the people, by our people in Republika Srpska. We've been witnessing that he's been trying and appealing for months and more since the National Assembly's worked out that the problems begin to resolve themselves. We really care that certain state authorities, we want to know who they are, negotiate with Croatian authorities, and we don't know what this is about and don't know our people who can't safely, despite the signed agreements and declarations, to return to their centuries-old hearths. I must for the sake of the public, and above all the facts that appear on the media today, which are, above all, directed to forget what happened to the Serbian people, to forget the Flash, the Storm, that they forget how many Serbs were killed and most savagely killed in the last war in the territory of Republika Srpska, or today's Croatia, that from the assembly booth, because as Mr Krasic said, it is the only place where we can say something and defend the truth. As the truth about all these crimes defends in The Hague, the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and you can see that he is doing it successfully for the benefit of all Serbian citizens and our troubled people west of Drina and Danube. I told Mrs. Comic yesterday that you know that Aleksandar Vukic was prone to these manic-depressive episodes, but this is now something that has a different character and can be characterized differently, and as far as giving up everything that is Serbian and disowning, she thinks that our people can go back to where they lived. Says this unfortunate Vukic, I never, when I was in the Serbian Radical Party, mentioned the lines of Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica, which is a line of national sobering and awareness of our people, the struggle to instill in our people and children our monuments, our churches, our monasteries and the graves of our ancestors. Although I am not from here, although many of you are not, but it is a Serbian country and for me since the birth of Knin was a synonym of Serbia. We can't justify that the individual media, in hysteria, which is printed, which electronically, spreads such a thing against the SRS. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Nor will we, here we end Mrs Comic, allow those who sell faith for dinner to speak of both Serbian heroes and heroes and our people. Here, you will allow me, it will be interesting for you too, I will no longer answer to read to you as Baron Minhauzen once said, now in what he was lying, and then he thought he was telling the truth, but the question is for him – Alexander Vukic. (President: Three Minutes) Clay on March 20, 1995, full of halls, and he says: I welcome the heroic people of Serbia's Banija, the Serbian Clay, you who first went to Ustasha, addressed Aleksandar Vukic to the masses in the hall. Glina will never be Croatia, never will Banija be back in Croatia, you will live in big Serbia, there will be no deviations. You brothers do not fight here for what is not yours, but for what has always been Serbian and what must remain Serbian, Vucic said. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds) We will fight for the rights of our people, both Mr. Buha and every Serbian radical, and I call on all of you to help our exiled Serbs to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6643	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I remind all of us that the basic provision of the Rules of Procedure and the time available is for an MP who speaks of the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6644	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I would like to inform you, and the entire Serbian public, that on June 30th...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6645	By calling on members of 225 and 226, which are part of the rights and duties of Members of Parliament, you cannot give any notice, you can ask for information from the authorities and organizations you need for further work. I thank you, you have no reason to get word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. You'll see that I'm responding when the MP loses ground to get his word. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word, and then MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6646	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like, in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, to ask a question primarily from the police minister and the authorities in Bia, about the headlines and texts in the newspaper that we can read these days, and even today, it is explicitly said that the source of "Press", this newspaper, controlled by Gilas and DS, close to Biji, which the Minister of Police Ivica Dacic said had taken over the case of the Croats, said the service had data that Vojislav Seselj from The Hague had issued orders for conflict in Hrtkovci. I ask the question: if that's true, and we've had headlines that said "A criminal undertaking is being prepared", so some Hague termology in the Krtkovci, why these people weren't arrested then, why wasn't that weapon taken away, why the police, why wasn't the BIA doing its job? I ask the question: on what basis is the BIA even engaged in this task? So, what's her job, if we know it's legally her job only when it comes to terrorism and endangering the security of the state. So, what's this about? This is what we have been trying to explain to you for years, that foreign intelligence services have put forth a great deal of effort, which physically, which is being cashed in, that this situation in Serbia, or that conditions are being created, although they are not yet created, will be the final blow on DS, you know, you will not be spared, in order to achieve the geopolitical goals of the United States and Great Britain, which have not yet been achieved in the Balkans, and in order to achieve them, you must kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. All that the DS allows, here I ask Boris Tadic, is he allowing the mayor of Belgrade, Mr Gilas and the tycoon, to present such texts through his media and such insinuations. So, there's a replacement of thesis here, supposedly the peoples are at risk, please. What are they and who are they threatened by? For their tycoons, perhaps, for private reasons, they may have resented some women, perhaps created some children, and not confessed. Here I ask Tomislav Nikolic, here I call Biu, let him say, they know if he has an extramarital child who has not confessed to that moralist who swears here on morale and knows of what, constantly calling on children, Serbian children. I take care of Serbian children. Let him take care of his children who he sows in the white world.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6647	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets a word on the basis of article 100. Article 1 And the Messenger of the people, Milorad Buh, the same foundation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, I ask the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior for an urgent notification of what will be done to prevent conflicts between the masses of Shipara and the masses of Serbs on the one hand and on the other. Namely, what happened? On the 30th of last month, there was a verbal conflict, then a physical reckoning, and then a burst of fire between 20 and 30 minutes. That's when six members of the Serb people were injured. From that day to day, and now the interior minister or defence minister can send their people and check, on one side there are several hundred Shiparas, on the other side there are several hundred Serbs. Any moment now, there may be an escalation of the conflict. I ask the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior to do something urgent to prevent the conflict happening in Kosovo's Mitrovica in the Brdo settlement. That's very alarming, please forward the request immediately to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, so that the international forces present there on the ground can separate that group of people because there can be a conflict of unprecedented proportions at any moment. It happens on the side of one village of the Shiptar and one large Serbian settlement, where the residents went out, both of them, and at any moment there may be a conflict. That's why I'm very worried, since I'm from that village, and your MP Djokovic is from that village, and that happens 100 meters from his house, children are at risk, old people are at risk, the enemy is at risk. If the Shiparis first verbally, then the stones, and then they open a burst fire from the weapons they have, which are mostly weapons from China, because they recognize these Chinese bullets when they shoot. Therefore, I ask that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior respond urgently to warn members of the international force to separate, to avoid escalating the conflict in the area in Kosovo Mitrovica. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6649	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. I request a notice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, and it concerns the work of the Commission for Succession. These days we've heard a lot of stories about the exorcism of Croats from the Croats. I ask you, where did the Serbs come from in the Krtkovci? Whether their arrival in Hrtkovce was for tourist reasons, the small people came to see the Krtkovci, to see Serbia, long ago they were not in Serbia, so they came here. It is about genocide and ethnic cleansing done by the Croatian state towards Serbs. That's why they came here. This is where I suggested, on several occasions, that, in accordance with the Agreement on Sucession, a commission be formed in municipalities in which there was a replacement. We have a foothold in Annex G, Article 2, which says that every contract, any purchase, any replacement that has been made, as it says in this Agreement on Succession, Pressure or Contradiction of International Law. In this case, international law has been violated, genocide has been committed. Let's correct that genocide. We have a chance. We also have state authorities to do that. In accordance with the provisions of the Agreement on Succession, there is a permanent Mixed Committee, as a joint body that is to unite all jobs in all former SFRY countries. We have our Commission for Sucession, whose task is to add all the disputed items together and offer certain solutions. Here's a solution. The Commission shall, in each municipality, record, see and correct that injustice. I am telling you that 90% of the Serbian assets, in this case the Serbs who have been expelled, who have come here, have gained far less value than the Croats have received in Croatia. But let's not bid now. Let's make it right. We have the possibility, we have state institutions, put in place a state institution according to the provisions of this agreement. The state authorities in Serbia are the most inactive. I warned you two or three years ago, the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia on this issue are doing nothing, we have no solutions. This assembly has a task, order, form committees, form an opportunity to reach a permanent solution. This is a way to correct the historical injustice that has been done to both Croats and Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6651	The word is made by MP Milan Veselinović, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and ask for an explanation, above all, of the chairman-in-Office who is currently holding the presidency, replaces Parliament President Mrs Comic, to explain the statements of Vuk Draskovic, a coalition partner of the authorities, who today publicly in the press, and also through electronic media these days publicly speak of Serbia entering the EU without KIM. That's one thing. Secondly, I call on the Minister of the Interior to make an explanation for the Krtkovci. Who is it that installs the Christian process, resuscitates something that never existed, revives what Mr. Bhuha explained, and how it came to be in 91 and 92. And today, a group of outlaws are trying to stage a scene that doesn't exist in order to ban the work of the SRS. First, you know that the signature with the European Mission, which Vuk Draskovic literally says, on the side of these newspapers "Pres": "It is true that Serbia will enter the EU without Kosovo, because we have signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU and ratified it in the Serbian Parliament, and it does not refer to Kosovo". You gentlemen have been here for days saying that this signature means that KIM is part of Serbia and that we are only going to the EU with a comprehensive KIM. The government is today denying coalition partners, which is an indication that you have deceived Serbian and Serbian citizens, and above all upset Kosovo citizens and even more destabilised the situation that lies there. Since I live in the border area with KIM, the administrative border, Mr Ljubo Kragovic has tried to explain to you on several occasions what the situation is, which is what it is, unfortunately many of you do not want to hear it. And once again, let me tell you openly, to remind you that there is a new Ship's rebellion there that would aim to cleanse KIM of Serbs. It is no accident that about 200 families in Kosovo's Pomoravlje today are selling their properties and wants to go to a foreign country. So there's what's feeling somewhere, not just in the air, but to say on earth, that the instability and destabilising of KIM is in progress. So I urge from this place that once again you, who represent power, do not look at the party interests of KIM, but to have serious fun with the problem and prevent further exodus of Serbs from KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6653	The way Kosovo's status is regulated is in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Article 135, as is the case with CEFT, an agreement that regulates the trade relations of Southeast Europe, as is the case with the European Energy Community of Southeast Europe, which regulates relations in production, use, export and energy prices. Therefore, all agreements signed by Serbia regionally or with the EU use the 135-based formulation. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, whose Ratification Act we have confirmed here, will be the only valid application. And your comments on anyone's statements can't be asked questions for me or anyone else. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha, but he leaves the word to Natashi Jovanovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6654	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to rely on what Mr. Milan Veselinović has launched and the whole problem in which our people are in KIM while the deployment of this illegal occupation mission of Eulex is under way. I received a memo, just like fellow MP Filip Stojanovic, and therefore I request a notice from the MUP, specifically from Mr Ivica Dacic, Minister and First Deputy Prime Minister, on the matter concerning the status of 180 members of the Kosovo Police Service and those in the so-called organs. temporary institutions at KIM. They decided on the day of the Quasi-Sip state's declaration by the Cypriot authorities, the US and Western forces, and then all EU countries, as Serbian patriots, and participated until then in the work of the Kosovo Police Service, to abandon it, because they saw that in fact by the act of recognition of that non-existent Cypriot state of America, as an extended arm of the NATO Pact, as all other Western forces, said - you Serbs have nothing more to look for. They could no longer perform their duty, could not, in accordance with the previously signed and co-operation protocols and with what was founded in Resolution 1244, find their foothold to do the job and to protect Serbs at KIM from the position of members of the Kosovo Police Service. The naked force is there. That occupation is so frightening that only one who doesn't go there and who doesn't want to see it, and especially now that this so-called. The Eulex mission, it's an even bigger fear and a bigger chill for our citizens. However, Mrs. Comic, Madam Minister, in 17.04.2008, the Serbian government made a decision, based on the fact that 180 KPS members left the service and were taken over by the MUP of the Republic of Serbia. Today's date – November 4, 2008. These people aren't anywhere. They signed with full legitimacy in this memo. They addressed my name and colleagues Stojanovic, but this is a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia and for all of us. Then how do we take care of anyone there when the people who are, you know what the conditions are and you know it's so-called. A mixed Kosovo-Police service, whether so, counterpart Kragovic, but they have indeed signed up for the most patriotic reasons to work in the service because the Serbian military and Serbian police have been expelled. We had to withdraw from our centuries-old territory by this agreement of Chernomidin-Ahtisari, which was the only SRS against. These people, who have been actively involved in the fight against Shipatarian terrorism and banditism all the time, have decided to make their contribution and computer -- we are 180 and through the work of the Kosovo Police Service in Kosovo Pomoravlje, it concerns them, that's what we're going to do. Come on, come to your senses and what the government has promised and has committed to obey the act, because that's how we're going to give support, and that's how we're going to encourage our people to stay and live down there.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6655	The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Buh, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6656	In accordance with Articles 225 and 226, I request information from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development on the privatisation of former Yugoslav republics' enterprises, i.e. with the assets of these companies. We know that in the 12th month of last year we passed the Law on the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Privatisation, which we transformed by the form of state property into social property by turning these enterprises into property so that we could sell and privatise these enterprises. We are aware that the conflict in the former SFRY has led to the separation of new states, new borders and those companies in the Republic of Serbia, a 92-year regulation owned by other republics, were state-owned, reorganised and continued work. The same situation occurred in Croatia, Slovenia, BiH. The property of Serbian companies and natural persons in BiH, Croatia and Slovenia is privatised. The total value of this property, the Serbian assets in the area of these republics, is about a billion and 800. The assets of former Yugoslav companies in Serbia are about 800 million. So the difference is a billion. Here's a way to pump a billion dinars into the budget, that's income, it's social property or state property. According to the Succession Agreement, no party was able to privatise that property. They violated those provisions, although all the former Yugoslav states ratified it, everyone violated it, and we made the biggest mistake because we proposed in the organization of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, aware that we had exhausted the agreement, that we had no right to do so. But what's right for us? He's right in the next one. The property is Serbian and we must look for it. No one's been looking for her. We have 300 companies with property in the former Yugoslav republics. The difference is a billion dinars. What do the state authorities do to recover that property, to recover the financial resources that were achieved in the former Yugoslav republics from the sale of that property? I suggest that the government proceed with this procedure just as everyone else did. He can't give up. Dinkic quit because four times protest notes were warned by Slovenia. Directly Janez Jansa said - if you continue the privatisation process there is no entry into Europe. The Croats spoke to protest notes three times. We stopped selling. This power has no right to stop. The property that is Serbian must be returned to the Serbian budget. Here's a way to pay off pensioners, how to raise salaries, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6657	The word is made by MP Jovan Damjanovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6658	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and Article 226. I request a notice from the Minister for Kosovo, Mr Bogdanovic and the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I went to Kosovo a while ago. We were in Mitrovica, Gračanica, Prilujje and Čaglavica. As a man, unbound to visit the Roma community, I was surprised, but not pleasant, but very uncomfortable, and I couldn't understand that a Serbian state could leave its people in Kosovo in one big problem, in a great social misery and torture. We, when we came to Kosovo, can tell you, Serbian brothers were fantastically pleased with the Roma delegation, and the Roma were crying. From Kosovo Mitrovica to Pristina you do not have 500m of clean space, these are all villas, houses upstairs, factories. Believe me, I was there, but what I saw I couldn't believe, and the Serbian people live very hard and very hard. Is the state of Serbia and what the state of Serbia does for the Serbian people there to enable them to live better and better standards to survive, defend Kosovo and be present in Kosovo? From what I've seen, believe me, nothing's been done. Kosovo's supplement is chosen on the political line, if you are not in a political faction that is run by you do not receive the supplement, although you are in strong social misery and misery, but these, although in a better position financially and economically, but they are in the parties that are in power, they receive the supplement. Double standards, which is inconceivable. If we want to keep Kosovo, and as I see Kosovo has gone and what few people remain there, if it continues like this, then there is nothing to look for. We instead of allowing better life, better economic power, standards, employment of citizens of Serbian nationality, Roma nationality and all those who are there, to keep Kosovo multi-confessional and multinational, then the state of Serbia must do something. But what I've seen, believe me, it's terrible. When I was passing, I saw a lot of wealth, big houses, and when I came to Gracanica, believe me, I was surprised. As the Roma who have my country of Serbia, I was surprised by what Serbia is doing for that people there. I saw houses upstairs, shops, shops, department stores, and when we came to Gracanica, I saw misery and misery. I've visited Roma settlements. You need to know that you care more about dogs and animals, and cats than about the Roma community. You need to know that the Roma community lives in one place in Kosovo Mitrovica where the cancerous settlement, where the health institution officially gave it to a cancerous settlement. That's where the Roma live, that's where children get sick, and older people die, and the state does nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6659	The word is by MP Milan Avramovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Art. In 225 and 226, I'd like to speak to the authorities to get answers to the following questions. With the press showing up, headlines, that Serbia will join the EU without KIM, and since one of the coalition partners of today has said so, I ask the leader of the position, DS, to make a public statement on the matter, what is the DS position, is the DS for EU entry without KIM or KIM, that the citizens of Serbia know it? Before that, in order to explain this issue, I need to remind myself of some things, that the former EU mediator for the Kosovo status talks, Ischinger, said the Kosovo status issue was resolved, but that Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue on concrete issues is necessary. There have been some secret meetings for which we, MPs and citizens of Serbia, do not know. The question is, will your meetings be in effect again? One of the proposals for these meetings is that Ischinger assessed and set an example for resolving these issues, the two German agreements of 1973. I ask the question - is this some new DS policy, is this some test balloon that Vuk Draskovic released, that the people of Serbia are slowly getting used to the solution they want together with EU representatives to implement? Is the goal of this departure from the political field, as some have said, without an emergency procedure to resolve the international court, is it the aim of the court, when the issue comes to the agenda for two or three years, in the meantime that EULEX does its part of the work at KIM, and then to invite Kosovo institutions to directly recognise Kosovo as an independent state? If there are two sides in court and both are called, and it's one state, what does that look like to you and what does it look like? I must also remind myself of the constitutionality of all of this, Article 8, which says that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible, the border of the Republic of Serbia is invulnerable, and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. Who's gonna answer? Will Draskovic answer for his statements? Will DS be fenced from statements by its coalition partner? Tell it to the citizens of Serbia, so there will be no more delusions and everything will be wrapped up in the bow: we are for KIM, but we recognise all the institutions in Kosovo, so let the Shiptari do whatever they want and what they want. Come out for a pay phone and say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6661	The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Buh, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again in accordance with Article. 225 and 226. I ask the Minister of Economy and Regional Development - what happens to Boreli or better to say "Borovo - Boreli" from Somboro, because the workers of this company organised a strike in front of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, asked them to come to the Ministry, to get information on why the property of this company, this legal person who operates and works under Serbian regulations, is alienated and in mounted court processes, organised by one of our colleagues, Bosko Ristić, who is the legal representative of the company "Borovo" from the Republic of Croatia. Namely, it is the property of the former company Borovo, Kombinata Borovo of Croatia, which was state-owned by the Serbian government in 92. Borovo's company came from this company in line with that regulation. In the sixth month of this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a regulation that allowed the state of property of these companies and the conversion into social property, so that they could be privatised. However, the process has dropped due to pressures coming from the former Yugoslav states, the process has been completed and we now have an undefined situation, but the assets of these companies are slowly melting. In court proceedings, workers are left without their rights and the state is left without property. She is now a socialist, according to the government's 6th month regulation. What situation do we have at the Borrelli Company now? We have 190 properties owned by this company, 34 of them have already been taken from them. Who took it from them? He took away their court, returned to the property of Borov from the Republic of Croatia. That's what we're saying, that this government didn't do what it had to do. What did she have to do? She had to sell this property. If the Law was passed on privatising these companies, if it was subsidized, if it entered the sale process, it had to be completed, and ended at the end of the succession between the former states, we are left with a billion. Mrs Dragutinovic, you have a chance to get billions of dinars. The current government has the possibility of obtaining a billion dinars for property belonging to the Serb people. Put them in the budget, split them up, give it to the pensioners, that's one human move, but don't do anything. You have that information, go ahead and put that billion dinars into the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6663	The word has a folk MP Vladimir Milentijevic, wants to speak in particular, followed by a folk MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6664	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, my colleague and friend Ljubomir Kragovic submitted an amendment asking for Chapter 25 to be added to Section 25, after Chapter 25.2 of the KIM Community Assembly. Kolega Kragovic explained all the reasons why he asked for it, as he is also a delegate in the Community Assembly of the municipalities of AP KIM and is very familiar with the problem. He didn't ask for anything new, to be removed from the budget section or added to someone, but to what the Ministry of KIM has been determined to deploy in a slightly different way. There are two types of requirements here, I would not enter into the details of the classification, but six million dinars are required for work, the costs and needs of the Assembly of the Community of the municipalities of AP KIM and 400 million dinars of social security compensation from the budget, and specific funds are required for the purpose and assistance of families of the deceased and kidnapped persons in the territory of AP KIM. I understand the government's explanation for this second half of 400 million dinars, because they are in the classification of the same social protection fee of 965 million dinars. It is obvious that Ljubomir Kragovic has remarked on the distribution and cited the reasons why he wants to get out of that division 400 million, as this would be about municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija and the assembly of the Kosovo AP and Metohija community better distributed. If so, I accept this second classification, but I do not understand why it is at all avoided that 6 million dinars are allocated for the needs and expenses of the assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija. Is this some kind of money to be declared by the Government, not to accept the amendment because it proposes that the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija prove to be a beneficiary of the budget and that it is contrary to Article 2(2) of point 6 and 7. For God's sake, by what law and the right of the Cypriot community in Kosovo has declared Kosovo independent? Can this be the reason why, I don't know, legal provisions don't allocate 6 million dinars for the needs of the Community Assembly in Kosovo and Metohija, and 22 members of the European Union can recognise an independent Kosovo. Is it possible that we are now relying on the law, and it's six million dinars? The second thing is that the government obviously has no solution for Kosovo or is engaged in Kosovo and Metohija. When I say that, I don't think there's anything on the ground except a declarative pawn. By who knows which time I asked from this pay phone to receive Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's delegation and leadership of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. That hasn't been done yet. In the end, Russian Federation Ambassador Mr. Konuzin stayed in Kosovo and Metohija for two days and was interested in living Serbs and non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, and Prime Minister Cvetkovic cannot accept a delegation of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. I think it's inadmissible and let it serve the honor. We Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija are upset for two reasons. The first reason has been frequented by threats from some Albanian leaders from so-called. Kosovo's independent states will attack and banish the remaining Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. If so, I ask and request a statement from the Prime Minister what is the government doing in that case to protect Serbs and non-Albanians? We're witnessing daily threats. The other thing we're particularly upset about is the deployment of the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija. Especially what concerns us is that until today, at least we Serbs living in Kosovo, we do not know who is in charge of negotiations with the European Union and with the United Nations on the deployment of the Eulex mission. If you ask the President of the Republic, he says he's not in charge of the negotiations. If you ask the Prime Minister, he doesn't lead. If you ask the minister, he doesn't lead, and the Eulex mission is moving across Kosovo and Metohija. You know Serbia's public well that the deployment of the Eulex mission to the Serbian environment is impossible for the simple reason that Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, regardless of the decision to deploy the Eulex mission, will not allow it. They won't allow it, and they'll give the most intense resistance not to disintegrate it, for the simple reason there's no legitimacy. There is no legitimacy because, in the end, the only mission installed in Kosovo and Metohija is the UNMIK mission under Resolution 1244 and the UNMIK mission is conducted in Kosovo and Metohija by the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The Eulex mission made it clear that the resolution already handed over to the Security Council made it clear that the Eulex mission will implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan, the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and the laws of the Republic of Kosovo. For God's sake, does anyone ever think to confess to the Eulex mission under those conditions? I would like to ask you, especially the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to sit down, agree, and provide us with a assembly debate on Kosovo and Metohija as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6665	The word has Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6666	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are with us today, yet you are the most invited and most important thing is that you attend this debate in detail. I want to support Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic's amendment, concerning Section 25, is the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. Mr Kragovic suggests introducing a new item or chapter within the framework of the budget for the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija titled the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. There have already been a lot of words here about how important this state institution is for all who live in Cosmet and do not recognise an independent Kosovo. The unfortunate Vuk Draskovic regularly makes some statements for the newspaper, so we see it today. Recently, he also said that Kosovo is not Serbia, because Serbia does not have its own institution in Cosmet. Does he even know that all these years the power of Serbia is on Cosmet and that our institutions exist and function? There is a network of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija's offices. There are also schools and educational institutions that are part of the unique educational system of the Republic of Serbia. There are health institutions operating under Serbia's health system, social contributions from the republican budget. They work for local self-government. So, simply, Mr. Draskovic, it would be better if the less he makes these statements. It is a great truth that until the Republic of Serbia itself admits so-called. Kosovo's republic and as it develops its institutions in Cosmet, Kosovo has no independence. But Cosmeta's fate is threatened because the government considers it not her priority. We at the DSS are trying to draw the public's attention to this fact and to the dangerous functioning of this government. The government has given up Kosovo's defence policy. The state, in one word, leads a bad policy. Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic, President of the Republic of Mr Tadic, ministers in the government are making statements of the type -- we will not allow or allow them to have Kosovo independent. But he must be judged according to his actions, not according to his words. We can see exactly where the government has given in and what it is about to approve. The government is ready to accept and approve the Eulex mission in Kosovo, to legalise it, and the Eulexa mission is to implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan. The Eulex task is to build an independent Kosovo. The president and Prime Minister are trying and throwing dust in the eyes of all Serbia with three of their god-awful conditions. Like they condition someone. This story of three conditions for Eulex is just a hoax. Tadic says he sets the conditions, and it's not like that, it's the other way around. The first condition, according to Tadic, is that the United Nations legalize Eulex, which is funny from the point of view of our foreign policy. Why? Because in July, with the help of Russia, Serbia prevented the adoption of such a resolution. If we still claim today that we need a United Nations Security Council decision, we're actually disabling our policy from a year ago. Another condition is reportedly that the Eulex mission is not implementing Ahtisaari's plan, which is also a sad scam, because there is no other Eulexa mission. There is only one Eulex mission, and the mission's mission is to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. So that's that Eulex. There's no such thing as a third. The third condition is for the mission to be status neutral. This is also funny because the mission, or representatives of the mission, has long been said by the mission's spokesman that the Eulex mission is to help build an independent Kosovo. When it comes to bias and impartiality, there are no misunderstandings. Unfortunately, in Serbia, Cosmet is almost no longer spoken of. The cosmetic theme is hidden from the public and is hidden from public opinion. We have a public service where you can no longer hear and see the show where the latest developments will be discussed in government policy and what the government is actually doing when it comes to Kosovo. I join the appeal of my colleague, Vlad Milentijevic, to finally discuss the new developments in this assembly, namely to get answers from the president of this country, from the Prime Minister, from the foreign minister, what they are negotiating, what they are negotiating, and everything behind the eyes of the public, hiding and secret. I'm afraid, when the result of their negotiations arrives, it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6667	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6, section 56, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6668	Before I say hello to you, I have to ask the chairman something, because she is harsh and sentences, and I just learned that there is a Prime Minister or Prime Minister sitting in the room, I didn't know it, so since I didn't find out in the Rules of Procedure whether it's mandatory to say goodbye or if it's a nice thing to do, so don't answer me wrong, is it necessary to welcome the Prime Minister or is it just a matter of my education?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6669	It's probably a matter of choosing the training you're going to use and it's up to you to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6670	I thought if he was in the Rules of Procedure, I wouldn't want to be punished. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable minister, co-workers and fellow MPs and MPs, this amendment is essentially trying to make some 200,000 euros, which are intended to be provided by contracts, in the so-called ". building Serbia's national brand, smarter use. Why? We all know how it went with this advice for Serbia's branding, with attempts to impose a tycoon as president of the council, with the resignations of some council members. All in all, it was a lot of weighty branding, and then during the last government or the last one magically appeared and some video that went to CNN, we never found out who was doing the video, how much money it cost, what it cost to broadcast on SNN. You remember that video where a Romanian church was placed as part of Serbia. Since the branding was quite a mess and quite a personal interest that was to be incorporated, we think that these funds for service costs under the 16 million and 710 000 contract, which is about 200,000 euros, should indeed be rerouted. Why? It's not enough 200,000 euros to take one serious or enough to make only one video, a serious video. I believe that one cost 200,000, but it wasn't serious. With 200,000, there's not much that can be done on branding. It's a really serious thing. After the 90s and the policy that has been led is Serbia's image is bad and really something needs to be done to fix Serbia's image, but it's not done like this in some tight groups, where some marketing agencies are tied up and these 200,000 are probably meant there by some friendly agencies. I think the ruling majority, when it comes to marketing agencies, advertising and seconds, has pretty well-developed channels for much more money than these 200,000. Let's leave these 200,000 to Verica Barac for the Anti-Corruption Council, and let's take this business by branding Serbia's image and branding Serbia seriously. It would be normal for a single contest to be called, to have people who have ideas on how to do it. The competition should also be international, as it is possible that someone from abroad will give the best idea of how to fix Serbia's name. It's a serious job, professional, it should take years. The budgets for this are certainly bigger than these 200,000 euros. This budget shows that no one seriously thinks that they are working on branding the image of Serbia, but that they are satisfying some private small interests. That's why we're asking this item to shrink from 16.710,000 to two million. It's some kind of decent sum if someone needs to print reminders to work on branding Serbia, etc., because it's the only job that can be done by the end of the year. That's enough, and we move this to the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6671	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6672	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, colleague Ostojić and I, as you have heard, have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which we have provided for the construction and positioning of the national brand of Serbia, which is set out for the work contracts, namely, as Mr Ostojic said, it is about 200,000 euros, for the simple reason that the amount envisaged for Serbia's branding is really funny. All that preceded the establishment of this council, the idea of Serbia's position, which has been absolutely disrupted in most of the public opinion of the whole world over the past two decades, not only by those who operate certain countries. These aren't enough resources. There are more ways to improve Serbia's position. I'm going to say something about one of us LDPs trying to do something like that. However, we think it is problematic that it was an attempt to brand a company on behalf of Serbia. We have seen this in the last month, that a private company branding, a single company, has been done much better in the EU than in the Serbian state itself. Also, I believe that no matter how much funds to separate to improve Serbia's image, they are insufficient if you have a vice-president who goes to the EU and says there is a black hole in Serbia, a black hole in European integration, referring to the Serbian Parliament. Also, we believe that however much funds to be allocated for Serbia's branding, its image cannot correct the action done by the foreign minister, that is, the way it communicates with its colleagues abroad. We've had more than one chance to hear criticism the way he treats them. We think it is much better to fix Serbia's image to look for real friends in and out of Europe. We tried in Europe last week. The LDP president managed to implement a resolution by the Association of Liberal and Democratic Party of Europe, a resolution that requires that all parties that make up the Association are behind the requirement that the Dutch government be asked to ease relations with Serbia, that is, to require Serbia, and thus remove those last barriers that we have to Europe's accession, i.e. to obtain candidate status. As counterpart Ostojic said, these 200,000 are not much, but we can reroute those 200,000, in our opinion, to another council, a council that, according to the authorities' treatment of him, is a appendix, according to the Anti-Corruption Council. We believe that these funds, which I again underline, are not excessively large, could contribute to better quality work, i.e. what is one of the main obstacles for Serbia to become part of Europe, which is high corruption. I've said it many times from this assembly pay phone, we've had more warnings than our own, hopefully, future not only partners, but also those with whom we're going to build a better life in this country. So we have been criticised that corruption is terribly high at all levels of government and that it is one of the major obstacles for Serbia to get candidate status, to activate a trade agreement with Europe, etc. Of course, we don't see much that seems, no matter what we've passed here in the past. The point is what's happening on the ground. So it's not enough just to go through some institution's law form, some laws, but to apply these laws. So, once again, we underline, we have submitted this amendment, because we think it is necessary to fix the image of Serbia in the world, which is not possible with such small means, with the creation of one video that, we all know, Mr Ostojic spoke earlier, depicting the areas of another country. To make one video that, as beautiful as it is, I don't think it's enough to fix the image. Much has to be done and therefore we expect that in some future budget, if there is indeed a desire to improve Serbia's image in the world, these funds will be defined in a way that could be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6673	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, followed by MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6674	I have to comment on this, for the simple reason that when you vote on this bill at three o'clock in the morning and on the amendments that you have in mind and this. It is good that this amendment, as well as with a large number of amendments that we discussed last week and yesterday, raises the issue of this economic classification - services per contract. They need to be opened in principle. Of course, I don't have a conversation here, the minister escapes, Hope escapes, so I have to communicate with the citizens. What does that mean? This means that within the budget and spending allocations, these are expenditures, the ministries are directly implementing something prescribed by law as an obligation and the budget shows this in cash. But this budget, like these democratic pasts, has a lot of these economic classifications for so-called. the programme and other activities of the ministry, and as a rule there are far more resources than those which are in the function of direct implementation of the state's obligations towards citizens or economic operators. It hides everything and everything. There's even a failed authorship. It is this amendment that aims to prevent the failure of the authorship of some immature people who may have made a brand of everything and Serbia abroad to present something that is not a characteristic of Serbia. Zoran Ostojić just set an example. Someone on CNN broadcast something like a commercial for Serbia, and people who understand these things noticed that there are some things in the video that don't exist in Serbia. Other ministries have a similar problem. For example, at the Department of Justice, services under contract can be and, say, make some study that can serve as the basis for a draft bill, or some program, or some observation or some survey. So the idea and the possibility of being in this position is inexhaustible. Services under contract are mostly labour contracts, where some intellectual and other abilities are used on the side, because the state in the ministries does not have that intellectual capacity, so it is necessary to engage some institute. It used to be a valve to fund state institutes, but now it's gone that way rather than the other way around. When it comes to this economic classification, I usually use the example of Gaš Knezevic, Hiber, Vodnelicka, Rakic, her husband, that Begovic, Boris, and not to order. It's inexhaustible. If you go to the ministries, cultures, etc., that's where you'll find different names. I don't know how professional they are. Judging from what their intellectual services have to do with the ministry and how they turn into everyday life, I get the impression that they are intellectually unsuccessful. The state practically funds intellectual failure and closeness of government. We come to the conclusion that if you want to be an expert, a world-renowned expert in Serbia's framework, you have to be close to the government, you have to run with some program, offer your services, there will be a contract, you'll do something, as a rule if in the area of regulations it's some failed translation of some law from abroad. Last year and last year, we had opportunities to get a study of these experts, so we see that it was a Resavia school in a slightly different way, because as anyone enters the EU or approaches the EU, they are a little closer to those who are in the West, so we have Slovenian translation, Croatian translation, translation from BiH, and then we are the smartest ones, we collect it all and gather it together, Gašo, Vesna Rakic-Vodinić, Hiber and others, make it something. And that can't live with us. This department of commerce is about this branding. You know last year there was a lot of fuss about that branding committee. There was talk of whether the representatives of the tycoon could be in the commission, whether they could not be, who was authorized, who had that quality that they could do so, so there were some marketing agencies that dealt with branding, so one from Panchev shared awards every year for a successful brand. A few days ago, we had a chance to see that one of them had won the packaging prize, and he was a crack in Serbia, all in debt. It's only because he's in the grip of the DS to finance the basketball union and the basketball team of Serbia. I'm not going to say the name so it won't be misused, and they don't pay for these commercials that you get here through the National Assembly. A number is inserted here, and that figure should be spent. However, what is much more dangerous in the reasons that the government has stated why it does not accept this amendment is the overall philosophy of this rebalancing. The government said something like this. Maybe your amendment is justified, maybe there's a reason to accept it. But you're asking for a cut so large that it's unacceptable for us, because if this position were to decrease by as much as you suggest, then the practical ministry would illegally spend some funds. In fact, it's already spent those funds. This whole rebalancing story is a legalization story. So tonight, when you vote on these bill proposals and these amendments, you're going to be in the night session to make a decision and say, we accept everything you've spent, and for that you haven't provided the previous consent of the National Assembly. If you did not have prior consent of the National Assembly, you did not have the consent of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? That means you put your hands in the pocket of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, took the money, and now you will use violence, democratically, to legalize it with 126-128 votes. We have evidence here for one of the possible definitions of democracy. It is based on the fact that 11 fools can outvote always 10 academics, because 11 is larger than 10. It's been happening to us since 2000. Eleven with such characteristics, tops ten academics. They're free of academic calling, knowledge, titles, confessions, they're only 10, there's more of this 11. Democracy has been in this raw form in Serbia since 2000, and it has gone on fire and on fire, reduced to the relative relationship of figures, 11 is more than 10 and a finished story. According to that logic, as you understand democracy, we don't need to discuss bill proposals at all. They need serially to be delivered here and to say, for this package of laws here there are 128, there's no need to talk, it's all over anyway. It depends on whether an amendment is accepted or not. Last night you saw, there was a very good example, one amendment the government refused, cited serious reasons, the assembly majority accepted, when we said, wait, the exact same situation regarding this amendment is with something previously considered as an amendment to the opposition, so I know, but it doesn't matter. We're the congregation majority, we can do anything. It's a raw understanding of democracy. Tonight, you will have an even poorer understanding of democracy at 9:00 p.m. when a direct transfer of the American elections takes place. I reckon you'll have to take a break then, how to miss it. How do you miss it? That's in, as they say. You'll have to draw yourself all at 9:00, the RTS first programme has to inform you through one of its sunflowers - the public service of European Serbia to know if your candidate has won. Just to let you know, they're both your candidates. Both of them are your candidates. Smile, just so you know, whoever gets elected will be your boss. Let's be clear, don't say I didn't inform you in time. I'll keep you posted on time. You have to listen, because if you don't listen, you're going to have a bad time. Not because of this side or because of me, but because the boss is the boss. Tie the horse where the boss says, and let the horse and the boss die, so be it for us in Serbia. The amendment is good, even better as a warning that if for something that is of national value separates funds and it should be our picture abroad, then please allow a greater number of artists to participate in creating something that can be the real picture of Serbia through some public competition. I know you can't do that, and right now, Gilas or this Shaper, they say we have our marketing agencies and what you're gonna get mixed up in. We supported you in the election, we paid your election, as long as they are members of the DS, it doesn't matter anymore, whether pro form or because of capital, it doesn't matter either. They're looking, they're champions, they deserve it. There's no public competition, it can be pro-form, but it's known that their agency has to win, their agency by registration, or it doesn't have to be registered, it can be occult. Do you know that a journalist with a B-92 is a great expert in interior decoration? She's no expert, even though she's a disabled pensioner, she's not even the owner of the Shaper agency. They're a simple racketeering transmission and to charge for something. Big public enterprises can't get rid of it. That's how you understood the organization of the state and the functioning of the market. Whatever you get in your hands, you're allowed. Whatever you do, it's European and democratic. Please, I hope you finally understand that the SRS has nothing to do with the Justice List. There are links to that list by Dragan Gilas. He's had it from the start. That leaf was a coward's egg, and now it's coming out in full glory. He serves to promote the politics of the Voice of America. She can be twisted, she can be unwrapped, and these days we see what she looks like in a raw state. Gentlemen Democrats, except for "The Flash", "The Press" and these other newspapers of yours, feel free to subscribe to "Justice", there you will find an excuse for all your attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6675	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6676	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will support this amendment in Article 6, section 56, Ministry of Trade, about the construction and positioning of Serbia's national brand, because I believe this amendment is, and what Mr. Maras and Mr. Ostojic have said, a good reason to accept this amendment. But besides that, I'm interested in one more thing. So, I'm interested in what this government has done for a branding over the past six months, to the image of Serbia that should go both to the world and to the inside. At the moment, it appears that Serbia's brand is the recognition of Eulex. The brand was designed in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and some other cabinets. The second brand, and the list is a little bit longer, I picked a few things, the second brand is a pair of taxpayers through budget rebalances. And we talked about it for a few days: both work contracts and travel contracts, and pointless positions, and courts that don't exist, so you have contracts on work, travel expenses, etc. The third brand, which seems to me like this will leave the most to you, is a pensioner scam, a great brand. You promised, branded the election campaign as the main thing, and now the brand is gone. The fourth brand could be a violation of the Constitution, tied to the budget. Today is the fourth, and we don't have a budget ahead of us. The fifth brand could be the carelessness of the most socially endangered parts of the population. So, all brand up brand up brand up. Here, it's branding a socially responsible government over the past six months. When all of this is summed up, when it comes together in one whole, in general, that brand could be called Serbia in the 1990s. Here's that line you said in the election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is not well today. In order for Serbia and this people to be better, this government has to go. The government is incompetent, this government has not fulfilled any pre-election promises. This government is based on haughtiness, on the deception of the people, these frauds must cease. The truth must be heard. Those experts who brand a giraffe like a brand must leave. The other day I was in Jagodina to see that brand, the giraffe. I spent half a day and I didn't see that brand, it's gone. It's probably that story about transportation, about numbers, it can't survive on its own, etc. Those ski experts have to leave to make Serbia better. So this story of Serbia's branding on the external and internal agenda has shown us how the government has branded Serbia. In the European Union without Kosovo, a wonderful brand cannot be better. Increasing population standards, free education, social categories, respect for human rights, all brand to brand. It is the government and it is the branding of Serbia that gives the right picture. It is fortunate for Serbia that the people see it all. This won't take long, because this kind of branding and this kind of policy has its own origins, and the outcome is seen, the outcome based on lies, on fraud. That's the goal of this government. The settlement of party interests, so this government is built and thus this government is branded and branded in foreign embassies and in talks with tycoons. It's a brand of Serbia. So when the government is formed by an American ambassador, an English ambassador, when the government is formed by domestic tycoons, that is the brand of Serbia, and that is the consequence of all this. The result is the layoff of workers. Do any of the ruling coalition read our paper? Do any of the ruling coalition have any comment on yesterday's and today's developments? No, and that's your brand. These are your pre-election promises. When's the next release? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. But it won't take long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6677	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) On Article 6, section 58, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6678	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and absent Minister Dragutinović, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 and immediately to say, that is what the correction, the dactylographic omega, for which I am ultimately responsible, was in the text of the amendment to apply to Article 5, which is actually an amendment to Article 6, and that is what the correction is. The amendment concerns the education department, and it concerns the money that we allocate to the budget's rebalancing of young talents. That's supposed to be 20 million in the budget, and now it's down to 10 million. Now to know what order is, that 10 million is less than 0.01% of the education budget. In other words, in young talents, we are ready to single out 0.01%, even so many budgets for education. The surface budget shows that if there are only 1,000 talented children in secondary schools in Serbia, and I personally think, I should even say that there are many more, then after a talented student we single out about 10 euros a month. I suggested the amendment to increase that amount. In order to avoid confusion, I also made the same remark when this budget was adopted, because that 20 million was not enough either, because that would only mean 20 euros per month by a talented student, provided that they were not more than 1,000 in the country of Serbia. In doing so, I asked to increase it by 68 million, and I found those funds in the education budget. In fact, there are so many raises in salary, let's say, municipal administrators. I see from the government's report that this applies to the AP Vojvodina, but I don't see why that would be the case. So they are given 68 million more than was foreseen in the budget. I simply asked for that amount to be reduced and transferred to a fund for talented children. It's an interesting explanation why it wasn't given anymore. I heard an explanation from the Minister of Education's mouth, which told me that until today, so on November 4th of the current year, no money was spent on the item. It's very sad for both the current and the previous minister, and if you will, for the top of that educational administration at the Ministry of Education, that no one has found fit to come up with ways, and there is no need for excessive wisdom to come up with, how to help gifted and talented children to develop normally. I accidentally spoke to a mother whose son is extremely talented in the area I myself do, so math. She, fortunately with hard efforts, is able to pay him a few hundred euros a month to pay him extra lessons with university professors, because he doesn't even have the specialist schools that exist in our country, he's 14 years old, he's not enough, he needs more than that. The second explanation I heard from the finance ministry's representative, he says -- there's a youth talent fund in a sports and youth suit. That's right. There is, it says, a fund for young talent. You know what goes on -- that fund separates as much as 420 million; two million for wages; nine million for employees' fees and 409 million for socially endangered youth. To be clear, I don't mind that there's an item in the budget for socially endangered youth, but it has nothing to do with young talent. If we're honest, money, young talent fund, and we're supposed to be standing at the Ministry of Education, because the Ministry of Education is supposed to figure out how to place that money, how to detect primarily talented children, so when it detects them, of course it has talented children and music, mathematics, languages, all the disciplines that are taught in high school, so it can detect them and figure out how to help them move faster. I guess that's what we're all interested in. I don't see whose interest that would be. I'm aware that we're already in November and that little can change by the end of the year, but I just want to let the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance that's going to make the budget, show that it's absolutely necessary, not only to separate far more significant resources from these, but also to figure out ways to use those resources wisely. Allow me, speaking of the Ministry of Education, to comment on the financial situation in that area. Also, I was saying the same thing when we adopted this budget a year ago. I didn't mind that the DSS was in power back then, as it is now in opposition. You know, 97% of the education budget is spent on naked wages. On the Education Committee, I said a little bit of a joke, but I'm afraid there's a lot of stuff here, that the moment that budget for education, when that 97% rises to 100%, that's when the Ministry of Education needs to be abolished, because then it's enough to hire one man in the Ministry of Finance to type in payments. The problem is funding education, but the problem cannot be solved mechanically. It requires a broad action, not just the Ministry of Education, of course, and the Ministry of Finance, in changing ways of thinking how education should be financed. Now we have a situation that from university professors to the last cleaning lady in the smallest elementary school, everyone is actually on the payroll of the Ministry of Education, not college, not school. Then we have a situation where education is spent a lot of money, that educational workers are rightfully not satisfied. Every fall, we have, as a rule, a jumble on that field, that those who are worth much better pay, are not better paid, and that there are again those who, personally, are too paid in terms of how much they work. It takes a completely different approach, a different philosophy. Of course, now is neither the time nor the place to open up a debate. I should say, there's no need to look for a new hole in the pot, all the education funding models exist in many countries around the world. It just needs a little look and apply. Finally, a student, a student, must be financed, not the salary of someone who works there. By the way, a natural solution will be made to the story of a state-owned school-private school, a state-run university-private university and everything else. But that's what I'm saying, and I'm saying right now, the current Prime Minister heard that story when he was Minister of Finance, he even said he liked it, he heard a little more detail, but as I can see, he didn't do anything. Finally, I'll repeat the third time, I guess someone will understand, we'll adopt, hopefully, a month from next year's budget. Don't let the Ministry of Finance refuse everything from the proposed amendments. Don't repeat that kind of stupidity, don't repeat that kind of passion. Speaking of education, I'd like to finish my grades. We heard from the Prime Minister's mouth that he claims the government deserved the first 100 days of a clean five. I couldn't agree more. As a professor at the university, I've examined about 30,000 of the same, which are different students, there's a former student of mine here among the MPs. Unfortunately, I gave 25,000 5's. For the uninvited, just to say that an "A" at the university isn't a passing grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6679	The word is Mr. Slobodan Maras, so Aleksandar Pejcic, then Maric, then Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6680	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called first of all because I was present on the Finance Committee when we discussed this amendment. Mr. Shami was in front of the Education Committee. There's only one objection here to be put, which is that it's been removed from the wrong item. I think his concern being that Professor Shami himself was a professor, and in the previous two mandates, the representatives of the DSS were ministers of education, and he knows best what a state of education is, he wanted to draw attention to the fact that young talents are getting a very small amount. Mr. Guzian told us something that really, in the context of this story, was very surprising to Mr. Shami. So, for young talent, it's being separated through the Ministry of Youth and Sports, so Professor Shami said the same thing. People, then, why do we need more Ministry of Education. I think it's really the point that through the Ministry of Education, more resources are being allocated to young talents. These 10 million that are foreseen are very few, and I think that in the next budget, or budget for 2009, and it would have to be systematically resolved, for the simple reason that this 78 million, as provided for by Professor Shami, would amount to only one million euros. I think a million euros per 1,000 talented children is very little, but much more than these 10 million dinars. That's why, although it's been removed from the appraisal that's not allowed, I'll be free to support this amendment in the voting day, because I really think it's meaningful and I really think it indicates that the systemic issue has to be resolved so that it doesn't happen in the coming years... Mr. Novakovic, you might want to push the button a little bit. ... That the most talented young people in this country, talented on various grounds, leave this country without real support from the state. Once again, I stress that this amendment is in place and that, if the ruling majority does not accept it, it would be good in the future, or from the next budget, to try to solve this issue systematically, to place the young talents, or budget for them in the Ministry of Education, and to take full responsibility for this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6681	Mr. Dusan Maric, after the amendment, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6682	Ladies and gentlemen, I support Mr. Shami's full amendment, especially in the section that provides for an increase in the amount of budget resources allocated for young talent from 10 million to 78 million dinars, with the view that I believe these funds should be sown from other items, not through a reduction in salaries to educators. I will list three possible sources from which these resources can be provided. The first source is the Department of Defense. The draft budget rebalancing, the state-run damage charge, envisions a total of 740 million and 593 thousand dinars. So, for the damage done by the Serbian Army. This is that a man doesn't believe. What does this mean? This means that individuals from the Serbian Army, irresponsible individuals, literally every day do some damage that costs the state of Serbia 2 million dinars, or 25,000 euros. This specifically means that these irresponsible individuals are destroying a solid apartment of 50 square metres somewhere within Serbia, where the prices of apartments are lower. Otherwise, 740 million is half the funds that the Serbian Army allocates annually to repair and maintain all the funds the military uses, from planes, trucks, via tanks, to light infantry weapons. When this figure is looked at, then really a man wonders if the Serbian army is currently dealing with something other than the damage the state must pay after. The comparisons, when members of the NATO Pact, to which Minister Sutanovac and General Ponos are constantly called, were their armies acting so irresponsiblely, I believe that NATO's pact would have been bankrupt several years ago. If you compare this amount of damage done by individuals in the Serbian Army to the budget, and compare that budget to the US budget, if individuals in the US military were to behave so irresponsiblely, the US budget would cost an incredible 10 billion euros annually. Every day, we listen to grief about how several thousand Serbian Army officers and officers have no settled housing issue, and that is an objectively present problem, a problem that the state has to solve if we want to have an army. But here we have a situation where individuals from the military, so I'm talking about irresponsible individuals, in a year's time, destroy 365 apartments, in four years, that's 1,400 apartments. For the sake of comparison, police who have more frequent contacts, daily contacts with citizens last year damaged 42m 811 000 dinars, 20 times less than the damage done by Serbia's army. Since I consider it inadmissible, that it is a classic crime, a national robbery, I am taking this opportunity to seek information from the Ministry of Defence on the basis of Article 226 -- what is the damage of 10m euros made by members of the military? So, specifically, from case to case, who did the damage, who determined the amount of that damage and ruled that the damage would be paid? So I'm looking for an answer literally by the items to the last dinar. I'll give you another example, another comparison. With this proposal for budget rebalance for the Mine Action Centre, it envisions an allocation of 10 million and 63,000 dinars, 70 times less than the damage that irresponsible individuals in the military do to the state. You know that certain parts of Serbia are sown with mines and cluster bombs and it is absolutely unacceptable to allocate such a small amount of 10 million dinars for that purpose. The next example is the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. For this office, for its funding, 53 million 405,000 dinars are foreseen. This is more than is set aside to fund all Serbian organisations in the diaspora. According to some estimates that are in circulation, there are four million Serbs in the diaspora, a third of the Serbian people. Is it normal for the financing of co-operation with such an institution as the UN tribunal, which has for ten years been the persuasion of Satanising and punishing the Serb people, to allocate more funds than to maintain ties with a third of the Serb people. The third example is the Government Office for Media Cooperation. The office's draft budget will set aside 79m dinars, which is 1m euros. The comparisons work to fund the President of the Republic's cabinet amounted to 147 million. The cabinet of the Prime Minister's cabinet stands out 53 million and for the financing of the cabinets of the first Deputy Prime Minister, 17 million and 430,000 dinars. So, more funds are spent on the work of the Press Office than on the work of the Prime Minister's office and on the work of the first Serbian Deputy Prime Minister's office. So the heads of the office have more resources available than Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Ivica Dacic together. I, as a man and as a journalist, really don't understand why a million euros is allocated to the work of this office, I don't understand what this office is doing, how many people are employed in it. I have nothing else in mind, what this office could do, what to spend this kind of money on, except that the government is paying newspapers and journalists through this office, so they can write affirmatively about the results of the government's work. To deceive Serbian citizens. If that is the case, this office is not an office for media relations, for public relations, this is the office for improving reality in Serbia. For this reason, I propose that these three items -- the Ministry of Defence, the Office for Media Co-operation and the Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal -- be sources from which the 68m dinars to be allocated, an additional 68m dinar for financing young talent in Serbia will be provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6683	Mr. Zoran Krasic answered the word, please, you have seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6684	This amendment is a good opportunity to say that this government or these democratic governments are dealing with something that is young talent. Gifted children from primary school participate in these municipal, urban, regional competitions, win some prizes because they are talented, and some have teachers and teachers who love their jobs and invest their leisure time to achieve even better results. That's one side of the medal. These children must in some ways be viewed materially within the Ministry of Education. Those other children who are gifted at sports should be seen within the Youth and Sports Ministry. Of course, those teachers and teachers, who reach or allow those children to have their luxurious talent and intelligence come to terms, and they should in some way be stimulated, not suppressed. We have a completely opposite approach, that in some schools the school directors are putting those teachers down, whose kids get the best results in physics competitions, chemistry. I know in particular one case, a very successful chemistry professor, in every generation there are several good students in the field of chemistry who win all the best, significant recognitions in this country, and he doesn't even have a chemical cabinet, nor a laboratory, he doesn't have the most basic working conditions and achieves extraordinary results, both he and the children he teaches. It has to be seen also materially within the Ministry of Education. However, we hear more about the Fund for young talent -- Dr Zoran Djindjic -- than about the Fund for the Republic of Serbia's talent. For this fund - Dr Zoran Djindjic, no problem is being provided with funds, as no problem is that those who are under-talented in Bologna get a degree and start working for foreign intelligence. So they didn't need fancy talent and intelligence to master material, they needed similarity. It really raises the question of whether there is this second step, when someone in the course of the educational process shows success that they can and continue with this work, to get a job, to start working and to get his ability to express itself. We have opportunities in the papers to read that great talents, great potentials, when they need to be hired, fail. It's similar with athletes. While in pioneering, youth selections, they produce the best results. When they're supposed to cross that stairs, they disappear. What are all these ways that decide? Of course talent, knowledge, ability should be rewarded. The state has an obligation that what is talented, intelligent, achieves super-average results, to help, to finance, to keep it here, to keep the results here, and not through Fulbright, Sonja Licht and some others, to make it reportedly successful to go abroad and slave out there in some country working. It's just that the quality system needs to be improved, so that every rustle can be more successful. We heard a few days ago, someone graduated from law school. He was neither talented nor anything else. As soon as they heard he'd finished law school, he started working for the Americans, even though he wasn't successful. So, with Americans and English, the most unsuccessful can work and take big money, because success shows in destroying Serbia and the Serbian people, and that's the rule. (President: National MP Nikolic has come out. I think it's much better if Slavica came in with a coat. Now let me explain how it goes with something called talent. Do you know that Radovan Jelasic was a great talent, a young talent. Then a Serb congress there took him, funded him, educated him, and he came here, and now he's selling us silk. There's a lot of people like that. This country better finance it, and secure a job and keep it here, rather than go abroad. It's better for these kids to earn money and become respected citizens to advertise it and be our brand, both in terms of knowledge and sports, although I have a different opinion on sports, but also in terms of this top-notch sport. This is how every forest is set up there abroad. You've seen what escapes. He's become an expert now. For what? For breaking up Serbia. It is totally subject to the American and English interests in the Balkans and it tramples everything. You see, he couldn't stand it, he ran away. You know why he ran away? Because there's nothing to answer. How to respond? What argument to use? He was young, he was talented? What was he talented for? As soon as he became a free radical, he became cancerous. Radicals must be disciplined, the SRS people benefit. As soon as they're free, cancer. Let the state finance young, talented children, who can make a success, to stay here. The first phase -- helping to achieve the best score during schooling. The second phase - to get a job right away, because the question is asked - why the evaluation in the education system? I guess the one who ended up with the 9.5 average shouldn't wait for work. In that education system, he showed that it was worth it. It's social verification. Of course, the one who ended up with 6.6 should be hired, but he can't do the same job as this one. It's possible that during the later working century, the situation may be reversed, but let's respect what the system is worth. That's why we need to separate as much resources as possible, and that's why Mr. Shami is right to draw attention, I agree, there may not be anything that can change right now, but he's drawn attention to us doing it in 2009. Manage those private funds, there's nothing of them. I happen to know some kids who are talented and successful, because they were with my kids in the class, and I know there's some stairs that go, and some stairs don't work anymore. The state's giving up. Why is the state giving up? For political likeness or incomparableness. Take it out of science, get it out of work, get it out of work, get politics into this assembly here and nowhere else, and then we'll solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6685	I thank you and at the same time apologize to Mr. Krasic, I did not notice that rude gesture that interrupted you in your presentation, which is why I allowed it. Of course, if I had noticed, believe me, I would have acted unanimously on member 106 and warned MP Tomislav Nikolic. Once again, I ask you to accept my apology, because it certainly is not appropriate for such gestures, and it is not the place in this room in general, not just this individually. Thank you for understanding. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Free Maras has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6686	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 7 which is scheduled to rebalance the budget adds after Article 11a, which reads: "Extremely, the Government can decide on the write-off, i.e. the conversion of individual claims made by the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a loan from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the capital of legal debtors." I'm sorry he's not here, Minister. I'd like him to explain to us the intensity that's coming out of this. My amendment reads that Article 7 is deleted, because I believe that the proposed member opens up the possibility that the state, through irrational lending to certain entities and subsequently converting debt into the capital of the debtors, is even more involved in economic relations and is thus additionally burdened with interventions and ownership obligations in legal entities. I don't think Serbia still has a special regulation on the state aid system, so this member would allow a continuation of the negative practice of selective interventions towards certain legal entities, which are not always done in a transparent manner. I therefore propose that this Article 7 be deleted. The explanation I received is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposaler's intention, therefore the government, is not to interfere in economic relations, as stated in the amendment's reasoning, but that, exceptionally in the case of already existing claims by certain legal entities, created on the basis of loans from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which it estimates will not be reconciled by the debtors, it will protect its assets by turning the loan from the budget of the Republic of Serbia into its participation in the capital of the debtors. In my opinion, the essence of this amendment is to remove this member from the hands of the Government's weapons in certain cases. These are cases where the funds given to individual operators, in the case where the Government assesses that they will not be able to settle these obligations by business entities, then pass this on to the debt that exists to the Republic of Serbia, or to its capital. We believe that, in this way, when there is no regulation already, certain economic operators are allowed, and beyond the eyes of the public, or without transparency, to put into a position that we believe the state cannot assume on itself. We believe that the government has exaggerated here, given itself too much authority, especially since, undermining, this area has not been regulated by law yet. Please tell me that if you can in any way pass on to Mrs Dragutinović at least to explain why this intensity. We will, of course, listen with pleasure to her explanation. We also hope that it will be so that we can understand it, although it seems to us that there is a whole other purpose behind all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6687	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Dobrislav Prelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6688	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, where the words "Government" are added after the words "with the consent of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". I would just like to read the argument not completely, but by the government's argument: "The government is the institution of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia and within its jurisdiction independent, and given the above-mentioned regulations, there is no basis to decide in the implementation of the budget, with the agreement of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". The fact is that all decisions in Serbia were made by one man and there was no need to write such an argument at all. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. In Article 7 after the words "Government" are added "with the agreement of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". It is simply that this article is about the government being able, without the approval of the Finance Committee, to make a decision to write down or to convert some of the claims made by the Republic of Serbia based on the loan from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the capital of the legal person's debtors. I explained that the government should make such decisions only with the consent of the Finance Committee because of adequate control of the executive branch of the government. It's terrible that the government and the ruling majority have no hearing or responsibility to the structures of the government that it is today, and tomorrow it can change, and then what? So today, which you do not give any importance to the Assembly committees, and even when it comes to capital decisions that need to be made, you will shout out in full voice as an opposition: is it possible that government decisions are not controlled even when it comes to capital decisions? I don't suppose you'll accept this amendment, although you have no good reason to, because all that matters to you is to give you a list of how to vote, because you yourself don't know what to vote for and what not to vote for. A large part of the ruling coalition MPs and does not attend the assembly sessions. The blind performance of MPs only explains and shows citizens what your intentions are for the majority and what your interest in the interests of citizens, in this case to protect possible malfeasance or cover unconscious or unintended mistakes that may arise, because the government has no control authority and makes decisions it considers necessary, or decisions that are in the interests of the parties and their officials. The government and you who make up the congregation majority work hard to put the congregation in the opposite position to the government. Instead of controlling the work of the Government, the Parliament, which votes and forms it, controls the work of the Government, your laws and irresponsible behaviour of parliamentarians, you allow the Government to control and direct the Assembly. The worst part of this is that behind these deliberate mistakes in the proposal and then in the passed law, it leaves space for individuals or groups to make malfeasances or to cover themselves by justifying that the Assembly has approved such a way and the principle of work, and then no one is guilty because we have all sinned. Gentlemen, it is our turn to tell the citizens that it is not our fault as a whole, but you as the ruling majority, and that you are the producers of a growing number of mafias, some consciously, and some of the examples unconsciously, because they are driven by the scrupulous interest and are blinded by hatred of the opposition or by some opposition parties. This amendment is about a loan from the budget and that loan should be written off or converted into the capital of the legal person's debtor. The very word of the loan states that it is not a regular flow of capital, and the specific situation itself suggests that all decisions made by only one person or the authorities of the executive authority which have no control can be misused. The practice suggests that wherever the loan was, there were also problems in the realization of vomiting or the way in which the vomiting is realized, where most often some of the parties remain damaged and imposes on themselves the need to at least another body to get to know the loan and approve it or not. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to accept this amendment, it is not the end of your and our torments. This committee, as well as some other committees, is chaired or are members of those committees of certain citizens who have already proven their immorality. These citizens are sitting in parliamentary benches, leading committees and deciding on such valuable issues and significant ones for citizens above all. In addition, it is about capital and values owned by citizens. These same citizens have given confidence to lists of political parties, not individuals. You and that fact, which is more than clear, will not accept, because it is not in your narrowest interest, although it is against the interests of Serbian citizens. Now this and similar issues, and to adopt this amendment, should be decided by Jorgenka Tabakovic, a citizen who sits unauthorized in a parliamentary bench and is chairman of the Finance Committee. Of course, we suggested her to that place, but at a time when we didn't know she had a tendency to kidnap other people's things and not say she was stealing mandates and who knows what else. We now want, in principle, to place it in place to deny it the right to continue to harm the citizens of Serbia, and you do not allow the congregation majority, because you expect immoral persons to do some more dirty work for you. If that were not the case, you would accept the fact that the group of citizens has been appointed to the seats of MPs and the assembly committees by a decision of party bodies representing a list of 78 mandates, and that these same authorised MPs of the same party, following the theft and concessions of a policy many citizens have voted for, do not want to see those citizens in parliament anymore. After all I've stated, I don't know what you call yourself Democrats, and what path you expect in Europe, when you interpret all the principles and principles of democracy as you currently agree. Do you think democracy is the rule of power of the majority over the minority or the rule of law? It's just amazing. Why do you need budgets, rebalancing, laws and other formalities when you don't implement them and don't respect them? Tell the citizens openly - you have given us to rule, now you suffer and watch, and hope that the people will suffer the longer they suffer, that they do not raise the hooks and the disruptors and that the revolution does not take you down from power, and your tyranny. I know most will vote for this and other amendments and laws as your commander-in-chief says, but I warn you that the people have shut up, and that's not good news for you at all. Who little knows the nature of the Serbian people knows what follows when the Serb people shut up. That I'm not in your skin. I think by submitting 84 amendments, the opposition made it clear to our public how bad this budget rebalance is. I'm sure in this debate, which, first of all, in the last two days, leads to one despair and the citizens and MPs working until after 12 hours, but that's no problem. People's MPs and opposition, and especially the SRS, are ready to work 24 hours each, because it is primarily our obligation to the citizens. It is also certain that it is clear how you accepted the amendment of the minority group. We don't mind, but it is more than obvious that they have arguments for Boris Tadic. All that is happening in Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija, especially after Boris Tadic's statement that EULEX is acceptable, all that is being prepared in Vojvodina, makes it clear that Boris Tadic wants to bring Serbia into the framework of Belgrade's pasture. There will come a time when he and Gilas will embrace the neck around Belgrade's government. History, ladies and gentlemen, is a miracle. You will be enrolled in black letters in Serbia's history. Just keep it up, but I'm afraid even next year, when Professor Vojislav Seselj comes out, where with the SRS it will be the last pillar of Serbia's defence, it will be too late because you've already done many things for Washington and Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6689	The word is Mr. Momir Markovic. Time's four and a half minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6690	I can understand somewhat, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, which the Government does not accept that the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly is a controller, so to speak, in fulfilling the horrors of article 7 of this bill. I don't believe it, and Serbia doesn't trust whoever runs this board. It's someone who's proven in practice that he's capable of kidnapping something that doesn't belong to him, kidnapping someone else's mandate, someone who's capable of drinking in Serbia, someone who's capable of, I mean, a whole group, of making burlesques at the Krtkovci, planning to make a political scandal out of it. Someone who is able to state at this point that they will resupply, as he said, to Serbia – to remind you, Sanader is the president of HDZ, and that translated means that literally Serbs in Serbia will live, as well as Serbs in Croatia under HDZ – someone who is capable and willing to earn personal interest or to cover up the former dirts of the Serbs in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, someone who has been able to build an ideology that he literally threw under his feet for 18 years, of course, that I would not believe him either. However, this is not just about the chairman of the Finance Committee, it is about the Finance Committee whose representatives are MPs elected from here. The chairman of the Finance Committee, if God gives you health and gentlemen a little bit of reason, will be replaced very soon. However, the assembly as a legislative authority is a little more equal than the other two branches of government, so I see no reason why the Finance Committee would not agree with such gymnastics of the government. In Article 7, which was tabled by the amendment, MP Prelic said, "Extremely, the government can decide on the write-off, i.e. the conversion of individual claims made by the Republic of Serbia based on loans from the Republic of Serbia's budget to the capital of the debtors. '"It's two things the government can decide to write off the debts it has given to someone, the funds it's given to someone, someone can't pay back, the government can write off this member. The second part is that the government can take possession of the debtor's property, or attribute it to itself. In the first case, it's about friends, ministers' friends, friends of friends of friends of ministers, friends of friends of friends of friends of ministers, because it's known that money has no color, no smell, it can be a little yellowish, but it doesn't matter. In another case, it will be about someone who has had economic opportunities created in Serbia thanks to this particular government, entered into a credit relationship, has not been able to repay himself to the state, even if he is not "yellow", if he is not a friend of a friend, he will be left without property. I'm curious, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, whose property did you intend on? At the same time, I'm wondering which of those who are in debt of the state are you going to write off? That's why you're afraid you have a controller, even in the face of the National Assembly Finance Committee. That's why you're afraid that here in the Assembly is going to surface the complete gymnastics that you've prepared, both for one case and for another. There are a lot of things behind this article, and I think that the amendment of MP Prelic should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6691	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: Article 8(1) after the word "bringings by the Government" adds "with the consent of the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". The explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia only proves how transparently available what the government is doing to the public and to the MPs. It is only later that what they were doing when the funds were spent, which were intended, and the non-intentional ones were spent. The budget redistributes, simply put, people's money, billions and billions of dinars. The assembly gives government, mostly votes, the green light to spend as the government has suggested. As the government suggested, and as the governments proposed a few years ago, it is seen by the chaos that the Serbian government has in all spheres of life. When did we, MPs, receive the official final report on budget spending? As far as I know, never. Who was responsible for the purposeless spending of money? Nobody. If citizens could hear what money is being spent on in Serbia, of course, thanks to this government, that it is not Members of the people, but not those of the government, but MPs of the opposition? If the citizens heard of the fixed funds for the old mountain ski resorts of two and a half billion dinars, at the request of Mladjan Dinkic? If the citizens knew that the people's money was spent on going and drinking, the official trips, the entire ministerial suites went to the Olympics, the universals, the world championships, the European championships, the national cost? If citizens knew that people's money was spent on ficus, expensive as if they were brought from another planet, to luxury office furniture, to host family dynasties on the father-son relationship, we rule Serbia, we rule Belgrade? How would citizens know that several times a loan is taken from foreign banks for the same bridge, for already built shares, for embellishing the facades of ministerial buildings, that it is not the MPs and that it is not the assembly committees? I should count it by morning where all the money is unnecessarily poured out, but no one in this Government of the Republic of Serbia is going to shake, and what if they had a majority of 126 MPs, plus - minus five, but because of those plus - minus five, there are plus 20 former MPs. That is why the government, in its explanation, says there is no basis for the decision-making process, with the agreement of the Finance Committee. As far as the Finance Committee itself is concerned, it is well known that the seat of the chairman of that committee belongs to the SRS. What has so far been tolerated by the assembly's majority is the twilight of parliamentaryism in Serbia. The budget is a pillar of the state, and that is why the Assembly Committee, because of the importance of the budget itself, should have some share in the further redistribution of budget funds, even through control. We have heard here during the last few days of the debate as ministers, under paragraph: services under contract or specialized services, pubs of folk money and hand and hat. What happens after that? Simply, nothing, nobody answers, everyone stays in their posts and can be called by MPs and the general public in Serbia, simply nothing will change. In 2008 alone, guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for a loan amounting to over one billion euros will be issued. Next in 2009, the same will happen again: loans, loans for bridges, underpasses, bypasses, etc., and the minister will say that it is nothing, that it is 150m euros or 200m euros in total. The only problem is that such agenda points are found in front of lawmakers several times a year and hundreds per hundred, up to a billion euros. The worst part is that these money is filled with other holes in the vault or even other corridors, which have nothing to do with roads or hospitals or railways. That is why the government is trying to flee from both the congregation and the congregation committees, because that is what the accounts are for. Unfortunately, the truths revealed from the assembly pay phone about non-purpose spending, and even abuses of budget funds, remain without the court's finale, and that's how it's been going for years. Just accepting this amendment would be a clear signal that the government really wants transparency, that the government really wants to stand in the way of the self-will of individuals in their ranks, who believe that they can infuse people's money as they wish. Will Mladjan Dinkic, a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, now go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and tell them that he has deceived them by promising 1,000 euros from free action? Wherever we go, citizens ask us when they'll get that 1,000 euros. Let the government and their minister, Mladjan Dinkic, explain this to them now, and you Serbian citizens look at today's newspaper and a bill that you can hardly expect about 20 euros. It is clear now that you have been deceived, that false promises of 1,000 euros have led you to vote for Boris Tadic and his list. The only good thing about this scam is the fact that at least a lot of citizens who had invalid ID cards ran around to get new ID cards out so they could type in those actions. And it's just a name that tells them what they're like -- free of charge, because it's not gonna be worth anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6693	Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic came to the floor and he has a word. The remaining time is seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6694	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as you see from the presentation of my colleagues, it was necessary, as I pointed out for this speaker, that the Auditory Institution, which was to form or propose the Assembly, should carry out an audit of the previous budget, or to carry out its control, to see where the funds were spent, from HTZ protection to large investments. That's what the amendment Mr., my party colleague, Ilic wanted the Finance Committee to do. As you yourself have seen, you have rejected this amendment precisely because the SRS has proposed it, or because you do not want your work, which you pointed out since 2000, to be transparent. Look, since the election campaign, from the imitation of those like it's done in the West, from screams, shit, screaming, you've seen the outcry, vote us, we're the future, we're for Europe, we're the ones who're gonna help you get through all your troubles. Remember, there were those who imitated the late Joseph Broz by riding in tractors, but only he forgot about the typus and would be the original copy of Joseph Broz. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at all that stuff in this period that you've deceived Serbian citizens. You cheated on those you shouldn't have fooled, which is Serbia's youth. You promised students Schengen visas, you promised them better conditions of study, you promised higher student standards, you promised them better conditions when you entered. What actually happened? It happened that you were just trying to get them to vote for you, and then you turned your back on them. You cheated on that tortured peasant, promised him subsidies, especially in spring, in March when he had nothing to buy a repromatter. You gave him some church girl in a hectare, and he was fooled, like the lice, a digger to sow, let him feed you, and feed us and make it possible for us to sit here well and receive fine wages. That's what a happy peasant did to you who you cheated on. You tricked him because you promised him that he would export his product to the EU. Why didn't you now allow sugar tails to be exported beyond Serbia's borders? You won't raise the price of buying sugar tail, but you won't even let sugar tail and corn be exported outside the borders. If you look further, you promised half a million to hire a worker. Where to hire them when everything fell apart, you destroyed everything. As long as it's your lie and how long it's your hoax. You've also seen people here who tried to manipulate, show how the SRS went bankrupt. The SRS can never go bankrupt, because it's in our hearts. Whoever declared it bankrupted the SRS, we financed it, I can tell it myself, I funded it, to say today, or to point out today, or to talk in the paper about how the SRS went bankrupt. Or this other one, waste number two, which says he's preparing for his assassination. He's preparing to go to Croatia. How could you and he forget the Serbian blood that was spilled on Croatian roads when they bombed innocent escapes in "Blash" and "Storms". Croatian patriots washed that Serbian blood with a Croatian detergent, but it still smells like Serbian blood. He forgot that fake patriot, forgot those escaped, exiled Serbs, and now he wants to get close to them, because he needs a voice. He needs to vote for his fake party, which was created on lies, fraud and kidnapping. It is in fact the face of those who left the last of Serbia – the SRS. The SRS created and defended today by Professor Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6695	Thank you. According to the amendment, Mr. Free Maras came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6696	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in which the state is located, we have tried through amendments to show. In the story in which we have explained our amendments, we have tried to say that at the moment it seems to us that the state authorities that would most have to take care, which is government and parliament, have to do much more engaged and much better to try for the economic crisis, which has affected almost the whole world and which is beginning to shake our country, we do what is best possible. For this reason, the LDP has adopted a programme of measures as an agreement for the future, i.e. 100 days of work for this Parliament for Europe. We believe that parliament has a special responsibility and that, instead of continuing, as we have witnessed in the previous days, exhaustion and inefficient work of parliament, we propose a firm political agreement between parliamentary parties on matters that need to be done urgently in the atmosphere in which this will be done. All members of the parliamentary groups and the speaker of the assembly will receive this programme of measures proposed by the LDP. We hope there will be consensus, because it depends heavily on Parliament. In Parliament, we must work at the same time to adopt the proposed measures to mitigate the economic and financial crisis, but also to speed up European integration. According to us, we have a deal to make right now. This is an agreement that must bring about some improvement in the next 100 days and we believe that the most important affairs of the Assembly in 2009 are the following: the agreement on the urgent adoption of the proposed economic package... I can get used to Mr. Todorovic, Mr. Todorovic, really ever since I came here, I've been getting used to you, don't get it wrong, you speak very loudly, if it's not a problem. (President: Please, just a little quieter to listen to the speaker. ) So, the most important jobs in 2009 are the agreement on the urgent adoption of the proposed economic measures package to mitigate the crisis, reduce public spending, preserve citizens' standards and protect the economy. The second and urgent plan is to adopt legislation on the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU standards. According to us, the order of moves should be the following: maintaining a special session dedicated to the crisis in the economy, blocking European integration, adopting proposed economic measures, agreeing on the principles of the new budget, reducing public spending, controlling deficits and state savings measures. The adoption of the amended Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which will allow for the speedy adoption of European laws and the eased procedure of parliament for those laws on which the heads of parliament's groups were agreed, and an agreement with the government on the annual proposal and adoption of European laws in 2009. In particular, we think there are several ways to fight the crisis. We believe that one of the most important justices for development, which can be achieved by reducing certain taxes. We propose reducing excise duties in the area of energy trade, reducing VAT rates in the entire energy sector, reducing tax burdens in the area of the construction industry, reducing taxis and administrative costs in the area of the construction industry, reducing taxes in the area of agriculture, reducing tax rates on earnings. These are all measures that would greatly boost investment here and relieve the citizens. Also, urgent strategic measures in economic policy and budget planning for 2009. There must indeed be an agreement for us, and there must be a firm measure of the government, which would have to lead to targeted inflation being 2% in the coming years. We also think that it is very important to freeze wages in the public sector, lower the reference interest rate and release captive funds from mandatory reserves and encourage their placement in the economy. The completion of an arrangement with the IMF. We find it very important to tax privileged action. "Robin Hood Laws" in Serbia means an increase in the company's profits tax from 10% to 25% of those companies dealing with high-profit oil, gas and their derivatives. Increase the tax rate for harmonised dividends and other receipts based on holdings owned from 20 to at least 35%. Radical increase of the mining rent from the current 3% to 30%, reviewing and abolishing tax incentives in these areas, as well as an increase in the income tax of companies that have a monopoly or dominant position, from 10% to 20%. This is, I repeat, our proposal for a programme of measures to make a common agreement for the future. The heads of parliament will get this, parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will get it. I hope that, above all, there will be an agreement on holding a session that will be dedicated to the economic crisis that is affecting our country and that we will come together to the extent possible to preserve the stability of the state, and manage to enable citizens to deal with all the challenges of this economic crisis that will affect us in this difficult time that is coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6697	Thank you. Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6698	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I'm very sorry that there's no Madam Minister I've been waiting for this afternoon to ask this question, because I think she's the right address to answer. I have to tell you, as an MP from Valie's brewery union, Valyev's brewery AD, he sent me some urgent letters that I can't go deaf on, and I'd like to publicly, from this pay phone, to explain what's going on. Namely, the Tax Administration, the regional centre of Belgrade, the Valjevo branch sent a solution to Pirari, noting that for 7 November this year the sale of the company's entire assets is scheduled to settle public debt obligations. All this is happening at the moment, just to remind you, when we as MPs here discussed the interest write-off law on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and the law on the standstill and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. So, just in the moment that we might still have to vote on these proposals today, it happens that the tax administration is calling for the sale of the company's assets. I just need to say a few more information. Five years ago, Pivara was privatised, the customers were a consortium from Belgrade, three legal entities, Atlas Bank, the Kopalnik Insurance and Express Gradina. So the debt mentioned here is about 400 million, and all the rest of it up to six hundred million is practically interest generated by this principal. The tax administration unlawfully decided to launch this sale, for more than one reason, one of them that had bypassed the possibility of bankruptcy, then decided to sell the entire property, not just part of the property. And what's also illegal is that they haven't given them a legal appeal period of a month, they've cut that deadline to a few days. In addition, the IRS has declared itself a privileged trustee, without respecting the fact that 240 workers should go to the street. What's also interesting is that practically these 240 workers, who on average have over 20 years of work experience, should go to the street, the moment this crisis enters our country, and when they will certainly and per year of internships will not find a new place. And that means it's going to be on the burden of government funds, because if you calculate that 240 workers times nine thousand, as much as the state fund gives them, that means that the state will run out of four million in just one month. Right? What the bottom line of the question is, why is the tax administration in a hurry, why is it breaking the laws and regulations that this country has brought? I would like the minister to check this information, stop this sale, and see what we can do with Pirara AD Valjevo, because it is very important that 240 workers do not stay on the street, in a city where unemployment is extremely high, in a city that has problems with many things, but whose average personal income is well below Serbia's average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6699	Thank you, too. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6700	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The rebalancing law, which reads, to remind you: 'In the total amount of funds set out in this law, the funds are also included in the availability of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, according to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. ''This amendment asked for Article 9 to be deleted, for the simple reason that, in fact, in the previous members, before this, it is clearly seen and clearly visible what means are provided for direct and indirect users, so it is unnecessary that this Article 9 exists, because it is, in fact, excessive. I will focus a little on the government's argument, which said in the first part -- that the budget is made for a period of one fiscal year and that this one fiscal year lasts from January 1st to December 31st and the calendar year. With no evil intention whatsoever, this sentence is taught in high school economics. But it's not the point now, either, but in fact, what the government has given as the first part of the argument has absolutely nothing to do with the amendment. It reminds me a little of that Serbian joke, to banalize things, "Good afternoon, Grandma, I'm reading a barrel"; one thing has absolutely nothing to do with the other. The second part of the argument says - in Article 5. The law on the budgetary system has been established that the beneficiaries of the appropriations can create a commitment to the amounts set out for each purpose in the budget, i.e. up to the amount of appropriations established under the programme. And this is one normal one of the alphabet budgets. And all of this is true, nobody slows this down, but this has nothing to do with the amendment either. So, in fact, this explanation absolutely has nothing to do with it, it doesn't make sense. However, many things in this budget rebalancing proposal really don't make any sense. Can Serbian citizens believe that you are socially responsible to the government when you do not adopt an amendment to increase the amount of funds allocated to the Anti-Corruption Council, while at the same time adopting a member in the second law that leaves property to the perpetrator of the crime that he stole in fact by a criminal act. He is still suggested to keep that property with the attention of a good host. It really has nothing to do with each other. Furthermore, can Serbian citizens believe that you are socially responsible to the government when you do not adopt an amendment to increase the amount of social protection compensation, while at the same time leaving in another law a provision to leave the perpetrator of a crime to a certain amount of property if he does not have enough funds to support himself. We don't care if he has enough resources to support himself, because he's gotten that property for a felony. Furthermore, can Serbian citizens believe that you are socially responsible to the government when you do not adopt an amendment to reduce the cost of paying the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister, and also do not adopt another amendment - to cut expenditures intended for travel expenses under the General Secretariat. But that's why you leave the funds that are intended for the Office for Media Cooperation. You know what the media is, you know very well that the media is gods and wars and peace, and that's why you're leaving them all these intended funds. It was the same when you needed the People's Office, which was actually a recruiting center, a real recruiting center for the DS staff recruitment. From the recruiting centre, he became mayor of Belgrade. When the People's Office completed that mission, we haven't heard anything about the People's Office lately, whether it lives, whether it works, what it does, is absolutely not mentioned in public. Budget is one venous system of every community, state, province or city. Filling and spending the budget is, in fact, the most sensitive segment in the functioning of both the economic and the policy of a social community. But as soon as this economic classification shows that segment that says -- the funds for the cost of the service contract -- it kind of reminds me absolutely of some potential for abuse. As it is and why, I'll only tell you on one case. In one variation for budget spending, it is one budget user, which is the Tourist Organisation. This tourist organization has concluded a business co-operation contract, imagine who, with an independent craft shop, to perform marketing services for her; an independent craft shop to perform marketing services to a tourist organisation? Here, that's the deal. All that would be good if this contract hadn't actually been realised. A stand-alone craft shop, to say that it was a blacksmith's shop, the blacksmith's shops were very practiced and they are doing fine these marketing services, she did marketing services fine for that tourist organization, so she charged it. Here's the invoice, she charged 100,000 dinars for those marketing services. Kovac knows how to do marketing services, Kovac brought our celebrated Bora Dugic to that event, did some more things and charged for it 100,000 dinars. Do I need to remind you that this contract was written by a very good lawyer from a yellow company? This is the way they are used and the budgets of taxpayers are spent. That's one way. Which of Serbia's citizens will believe you further that when you have not reduced the funds that are intended for the construction, modernisation and infrastructure of the ski centre, the means that pushes the persistent one who has promised Serbian citizens 1,000 euros of free action, and there is nothing of it. Many of these five million citizens are social cases. Many of these five million citizens are bored, jobless, disfigured. Many of these five million Serbian citizens cannot afford their children in a daily meal a single piece of meat. Many of these five million citizens are actually those people who voted largely for power, voted to sit where you are sitting right now. However, I have the impression that they are slowly finding ways to correct this mistake in the next election. Furthermore, is the government responsible for allowing only one day without a job at the Technical and Remont Institute in Cačka to remain 400 workers, without justification, without the possibility of appeal and without being able to enter their company for over 30 years. They had to take their firing decisions at the porter, at the company gate. They couldn't even come in to take the layoffs. And these are the same workers who went on their work assignments during the bombing, who went to KIM and everywhere in Serbia and under the rain of bombs and worked their work obligations and tasks honestly and honestly. They're no longer good to this country, they're no longer good to this government, and they're treated that way. And just 15 days before this, some workers, who were only a month ahead of their regular pension, received 780,000 dinars and went to the bureau, and note, they were one month ahead of their regular retirement conditions. But they were personally interested in Mr Sutanovac's defence minister. In fact, was all this a demonstration of the statement by the mentioned Mr Sutanovac, who almost, several days ago, said: "The opposition in Serbia has never been weaker and less quality. That's why I don't expect them to be able to do anything that could cause any person in the government to worry, or motivate citizens to do activities that would lead to the fall of the government. These parties do not have the ideology and vision of Serbia's development." If the vision of Serbia's development is the layoff of workers, if the vision of Serbia's development is crime, corruption, concern about the Serbian population, then this minister is absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6701	Mr. Milovanovic, you have four and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Mirko Munjic, the SRS MP, of course for legitimate reasons, has submitted an amendment to the draft law on the rebalancing of the Republika Srpska budget, which requires that Article 9 be deleted. He has already cited a number of reasons why he has rightly submitted the amendment, and the point in the amendment is that everything in the draft budget rebalancing law is listed in economic classifications, positions and divisions, and it contains basic elements and justification for the allocation of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, in addition to being a member of the 9th. The bill is too high, it is necessary, and when it comes to this amendment and this bill, in certain provisions, to clarify from the aspect of increased control of budget spending. We need to establish this enhanced control through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with concrete insight into where the funds are spent, where budget money is spent through the work of the Finance Committee. We have already stated this in previous amendments to Article 7 and to Article 8. Proposal for a law, which requires a Finance Committee instead of a competent ministry to give consent to certain government actions, such as in Article 7, as in Article 8. By being in Article 8. The bill taxed what divisions the government needed to schedule and use funds on a proposal from the competent ministry in 2008, by the end of the current year for the two months. Among other things, it has been stated that the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Warrants responsible for certain crimes for the 1991 period, but we in the SRS know well and we say this not only to the People's Parliaments of the National Assembly but also to the public in general that this co-operation is one-way co-operation, it is only aimed at catching war crimes suspects, both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and citizens who are not citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but are foreigners to us, according to the legal system. There is much done not to be done in accordance with the law, without speaking in line with certain morals and protection of Serbian national interest, as the regime of Boris Tadic and DS is now trying to do through its exposure, as they have already called it, the Serbian Progressive Parties, to cause damage to Vojislav Seselj's defence, and even moreover, to end his life in a way that would have already been done in the coming period, and how they hope to leave space, that is, a political action field for that new quasi-political party, and better say the backup DS party in Serbia, not the Democratic Party of Serbia, but the Democratic Party acting as the ruling party in Serbia. As regards this amendment and Article 9, as indirect users under the draft budget law, those users who end certain jobs for the Government of the Republic of Serbia may also be listed under the service contract, under a business co-operation contract, under a contract to perform works, where workers and subcontractors of roads, highways, etc. appear. Can they be wronged by indirect users of the budget and local self-government, although I do know that you do not interpret it in the legal system when it comes to transfer funds, where not enough funds are given to individual municipalities, such as the municipalities of Alexinac and the municipality of Književec? About this, citizens of the Književec municipality can hear more and more precisely tomorrow in the final pre-election stands, which is scheduled for 18.00 hours at the House of Culture in Književec, so they can come and hear SRS MPs who will tell them a lot, and what they haven't heard of this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6703	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6704	Since the government has not accepted a single amendment so far, and has promised the majority of parliament, which is obviously more aware than we have concluded in small hours tonight and understands some problems better than the Government, then I have suggested that the majority of parliaments change this government and choose a new government from their ranks, there are 128 MPs, which is easy to do. Something else has happened to all of this that we opposition MPs have been saying and trying to make amendments, including this amendment, to draw attention to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, this amendment has nothing to do with European integration, has nothing to do with EU standards. This is an amendment to the draft budget rebalancing law that smells the coalition's wishes and needs of 11 parties that make up the government of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. But here's something that was published by the Czech national radio on Radio Journal, about a visit by the Czech president of Serbia, where Serbian President Boris Tadic apparently showed that he knows and listens smarter than himself. Apparently, he listened to this assembly debate, so that he listened, among other things, to Djokovic. Because I've talked about it many times, and here's something he's said more than once by the DSS MPs about the Czech Radio Journal. President Boris Tadic said that for Serbia, it is more important than the issue of the EU's deadline for the quality of life in Serbia to be at European level before membership. Whether the strength and ability of our institutions will be at European level and whether Serbia will be effective in the fight against organised crime, corruption and anything that hinders its development. In other words, what we from the DSS have been saying for years, and even in the debate on this budget rebalancing, it is more important that we reach European standards for our sakes, for our sakes, for the sake of Serbia's countries and for the sake of Serbia's citizens, than just for the very act of joining the EU, which you Euromerclics have been doing and you've been saying for a long time in Serbia. President Tadic realized that we were right all along and that's what the man said. If that is what he said and if it is true in this, I would ask that this debate be interrupted, after he has drawn up this government, it is certainly not you who put it together, that the minister go to the government, read the president's statement, hold a session and withdraw this harmful budget rebalance across Serbia. And that all those who have already spent this money correspond to why they spent it before the budget predicted it, because it is a European standard, it is the European Union. It's certainly not 800 million more to be spent than expected for the government to spend the government's red tape before the budget's rebalance predicted, and then to rebalance the iron budget without the military losing three billion dinars, while our planes are dropping. So, if this is what the honest man thought, if he didn't get the propaganda team to say it again because the MPs of the opposition talked about it here for days and because apparently the public opinion took it well, after a thousand layoffs for one day in Serbia, instead of hiring 200,000 people for four years, as long as this government is supposed to last, I don't know how, but now it takes 201,000 to get a job and not 200 thousand, listen to the nice man that he said. If you are not able to do so, you ministers in the government, resign, let the assembly majority or some other assembly majority choose a new government, but we need a government of Euromerklia, but a government that will lead a responsible policy towards the state, towards the citizens of Serbia and that will build European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6705	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6706	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, when we talk about budget rebalancing in November and when the entire domestic professional public, as well as representatives of international financial institutions, points out numerous shortcomings and when MPs of opposition parties submit 84 amendments in an attempt to mitigate the consequences of the proposed solution as much as possible, and the government or better said assembly majority is working to accept one, two or three, not so much, it is clear that nothing good from this proposal can be expected. No argument that we have presented in this several-day debate is respected, and the consequences that will first and foremost reflect in the part of the inflationary blow, thus making it more difficult for the citizens of Serbia to live, will only be felt, as well as how. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, he submitted an amendment to Article 10, in which the word "supervised" should be replaced by the word "eighth", explaining that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia established a way of entry into force of the law. There was an unsatisfactory explanation by the Government that the amendment would not be accepted for reasons in accordance with Article 196(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the laws and other general acts can enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, and in the case of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 it is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of newly established state bodies in accordance with the Ministry Act, to provide funds for the extraordinary increase of pensions in accordance with the Government's Emergency Retirement Regulation, which has been established to increase pensions by 10% since October 2008, the payment of subsidies in agriculture, as well as for the execution of other expenditures for which it is necessary to provide additional funding in 2008. I ask myself, as well as the citizens of Serbia, are we living in the same state as the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Such an explanation on 4 November 2008, after information on gas collection and telephone impulses, life supplies, etc., the story of an increase of 10% in pensions in this real world does not drink water. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the increase in the deficit in the state register will have repercussions both per economy and per citizen of Serbia, so I really don't understand why you are angry at the qualifications that you are a socially irresponsible government. When items for the PIO Fund, health care, local self-government are added to the increase in the budget deficit, we get a total deficit of 2.5 to 2.7% of gross social product, before which the government closes its eyes. It closes its eyes and before the legal obligation to draft the budget for the next calendar year, just as it hides from the problems that have been caused just by the lack of respect of the law. And I'm going to give you this opportunity and the example that happened at the Company "Kobest" Mladenovac and what's all closely connected to what we've been talking about so far. So, the collapse of this company is actually one cliché of mutilation in Serbia to make it easier to sell. An interested foreign buyer, who accepts the investment and social programme and purchases auction documentation, appeared after a prospectus for privatisation companies. No one appears at the first auction, and the doubts of the workers in the regularity of the procedure were difficult to prove. At the second auction in December 2003 at a lower starting price, as a buyer, 70% of the social capital appears by the legal entity MBR Mladenovac and Nini from Nis, the property of controversial businessman Jovica Stefanovic, better known as the man on the warrant, who has been reported for several crimes in the area of economic crime and for the annulled privatisation of Jugomedia Zrenjanin, of which the public is well-known. Later, the MBR takes over the independent role of the majority owner. When workers found that the majority owner and management of the company did not respect the provisions of the buy-in contract, that abuse of the official position in the management of the stock company was a capital extraction at the expense of minority shareholders and that unconscious work could cause bankruptcy and thus destroy property acquired for generations, there was a formation of the Association of Minority Stockholders Kobest within the UMA of Serbia. Uma Kobest has over 1,000 registered shareholders with over 20% shares. There are about 400 shareholders outside the association who are mostly in a working relationship, so in fear of retaliating the majority owner, they did not become members of the Association, and membership is accepted, unfortunately, only when they are fired from the company. In addition to Kobest and several other companies, Slobodan Radovic was also a majority owner and the building work organisation Jablanica from Valjev, who, before the cancellation of the purchase contract, was literally devastated and workers were left without pay, severance and contributions to personal income. It's been over a year since the UMA of Serbia has filed a criminal report by the Belgrade city administration, the Mladenovac Department and the Municipality's Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov. The result of all efforts to point out the lawlessness and legalized robbery was zero, taking into account all previous addresses to various ministries, state agencies, the president's cabinets, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of the list, the Association of Shareholders also addressed President SO Mladenovac Zoran Kostic, which was aimed at realizing that Kobestu was at risk of survival and that the mass of the workers was robbed, humiliated and disfigured. Finally, as president, they expected to be concerned, if not for the existence of workers, and at least to consider that the city's budget, denied for part of the inflow of funds, would meet SO Mladenac's needs. To the astonishment of the people he did not favour them with answers, and the material of the UMA Kobest Association has torn up, although there is no ingenuity in solving these problems, he has no right to close his eyes while a company of such a renaissance, with a once European perspective, dies in front of the eyes of the entire city without trying to help with its authority of the president to prevent this economic crime. Among other things, ignoring the crimes of the Mladenovac municipality was the last place of Belgrade's municipalities at the height of the profits, but it is therefore at the very top of the officials' profits and at the very top of the number of unemployed people. The DS has been keeping an eye on any successful impact of its prominent member, and has recently rewarded him as a member of the city government in charge of caring for suburban municipalities. Although nothing can surprise us anymore, this move represents nothing more than cynicism and mocking the people, so it's certainly unexpected. The material and criminal records contain over 120 pages of evidence, review and comment. In addition to the criminal report, an assessment of the capital of the Serbian professional team UMA was also submitted to compare the real market value of the company in relation to the sale at the time of privatisation. Based on this assessment, and based on the official document from Kobest, it was found that the company was sold by 30 times the market price. In that criminal report, a large number of cases were reported on a customer and supplier contact with complete data from certain documents, which showed that suspicious transactions and fictitious invoices destroyed Kobest's assets. One of the stalking ways to extract capital is also mortgage loans, which are reportedly raised to speed up production. The funds received on this basis were used to settle other loans, for the personal income of employees, and regularly part of the funds was transferred to other companies that have treatment so-called. associated societies. Of course, in such transactions, MBR, which has also achieved the biggest rebate for the purchased goods from Kobest, has preceded it. The company's credit rating has been proven to be hair-free, so that the company's borrowing will go on uninterruptedly. Business management has renovated and equipped apartments, used funds for family winters and summers, cars and free fuel were also used for family purposes. According to the sales contract, the majority owner invested certain assets by non-money investment, but never presented the company to the Assembly, which consists of the investment. This dubious investment has increased the majority of actions in an appropriate percentage, while the assessment of the independent expert has lagged. As regards the address of the Privatisation Agency with an emergency control request, the reply came that the buyer of the privatisation entity carried out the obligations pursuant to contractual provisions and that its jurisdiction ceased at the end of three years from the date of the privatisation. It is particularly interesting that the Agency has on two occasions assured that contributions to profits in 2005 and 2006 have been paid, and it is true that some judicial disputes are being conducted, and a larger group is just about to initiate judicial proceedings on this issue. Another in a number of interesting things is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's response, where they inform about this requirement concerning the revision of the privatisation of the company Kobest Mladenovac, that the Privatisation Act, as well as sublegal acts, do not know the process of reviewing the privatisation of enterprises. On that occasion, the ministry informed that all these allegations could be proved in a legal-accounting dispute before the Senior Trade Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a huge gap between the declarative involvement of state officials in corruption and organised crime and what they are really doing. On this occasion, we call on the competent state institutions to move from the declarative to a real push to eliminate the consequences of crime and government, no matter how difficult it is for them. In the event that the competent services decide to help, and it is 1,200 members of this association, in the protection of their rights, which we all secretly hope to do, I suggest that they proceed from criminal application to the Ministry of the Interior and the Public Prosecutor's Office of Mladenec, who was handed over and seduced on the 23rd day. Ten. In 2007, then, just over a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6707	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, by amendment, you have three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6708	So many big things can be said in three minutes. Finally, when we look at an explanation why this amendment is not accepted, which is why this law should enter into force after an emergency procedure and not within eight days, it says - justifiable reasons, and in the case of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, it is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of newly established state bodies in accordance with the Law on Ministrys, to provide funds for an extraordinary increase in pensions of 10%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which you did not immediately say that this budget rebalancing is only due to an increase in pensions of 10%, to vote immediately. Are these costs in all ministries and in all bodies, increased costs, are they in the service of raising pensions of 10%? Who are you kidding? Whether the pensioners waiting, you promised them in the pre-election campaign, so you promised them during the completion, during the constitution of the government, during this, during the one time, the Krkobic dynasty, Krkobic promises all the time and now this promise is now 10%. However, there is also something that should have been followed by an urgent procedure to get to know the public, to get to know the government and to meet the ministers responsible for it, I will refer this to the Prime Minister, and let him see which minister is responsible for the ecology he is on duty today. In 2004 and 2005, the yellow dynasties in Indjia, from the contractors, who otherwise owes 2m euros, are about the Roadway of Engineering, takes away one part of the job and trusts the other company. He needed to be paid 20 million, and this other company was paid 89 million. It is the Jesic who was to be elected manager of the year or president of the municipality of the year. The company for 89 million completes the collective sewerage of Indji - Nova Paz, and connects it to the collector in Batajnica. Three years after that, the pipes crack and the whole of Srem is threatened by an ecological disaster. This is what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs and citizens of Serbia, the place where they pass the sewer. Four-and-a-half kilometers of sewerage nets have been dug up. This is located on the route a mile from the army ramp towards Novi Pazova. This is on the route to the train station of the Army. This is located on the route at the Military station, all on the route of Indji - Vojka - Nova Pazova, on the road near the crossing of Nova Paz-Vojka. The literally complete sewerage in a four-and-a-half-mile direction broke. To build a new sewerage network, because it cannot be renovated, it should be invested around 2m euros. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if we've decided to start fighting corruption and crime, I suggest that the interior and justice ministries look at how money has been spent in India, see who's responsible for this ecological disaster, in addition to a financial disaster, and that someone fills a prison in Sremska Mitrovica. Otherwise you have one now, we'll get rid of one judge, a new judge will come, just give him this job right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6709	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6710	Madam President, honourable Members of the People, I will repeat something that I have completed my opening presentation. For a reminder, I never said I was happy with this budget and I never boasted about this budget. Like I said back then, it can always do better. The fact is that you have often criticised the budget as being a compromise budget, as if it were unusual. The budget, unfortunately or fortunately, does not bring to the advice of economists and is not based on economic theory, is brought to parliament, first in the government, and then in parliament, you confirm it, and that only says that every country's budget, including this, must be a compromise budget. There are amendments that really can't be objected to. It's good to keep the deficit smaller, it's better to be 45 than 15 billion, and it's even better if the deficit isn't there, but I remind you that this budget was adopted with the deficit and that the users of the funds were acting that way. Because though good, they're not real anymore. There have been amendments requiring a change in the cost structure with the same deficit. The reduction of expenditure on employees, capital expenditures, the purchase of financial assets, in order, for example, to increase subsidies or increase social expenditure. There were also completely conflicting demands. There was a requirement to increase spending on Kosovo and Metohija, as well as to reduce them. What may have hit me the most is that I heard that this government only gives verbal support to Kosovo and Metohija. It's just not true. This verbal support has never been controversial, but with verbal support, there is material support. In 2008, according to the rebalanced budget, expenditures for Kosovo and Metohija, through different ministries, amount to 43 billion dinars. We could say that we compare these expenditures to the budget of Kosovo, which is one billion euros, and then we would see that what the Republic of Serbia singles out for Kosovo and the 50% Kosovo budget Metohija. The costs that were most disturbing to you and which you often said were non-transparent, these are travel costs, contractual services, specialised services, expenditures for Fiat, subsidies, loans for tourism. Also, you wanted to see less expenditure for Bia, the Office for Media Cooperation, European Integration and the National Office. What you wouldn't be saving on, and I remembered that well, is environmental protection, the State Audit House, the Corruption Council, NGOs. This budget has been criticised as non-transparent and it has been pointed out that it might not be bad for me to see how budgets used to be made. I really looked. Before 2001, budgets had only five to six pages and there were only the following items: profits, material costs, special purposes and equipment. I don't see much difference between special purposes and contract services or specialized services. Unfortunately, the budget that is still my goal, to deliver such, is the budget that the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians had in 1922. That budget is a fat book, where without a computer all the individual expenditures were known, even as cigarettes for soldiers. And even this 2009 budget won't be as detailed as I'd like it to be, some next one, but I'm going to strive for it. There were also very funny, for me, amendments, and they looked at the proposal to delete individual members of the law, there were interesting messages, as if not to respect the standard methodology. I'm reminded of the cover-up techniques. There were a lot of questions asked, mostly not to me. Isolatedly, there were many good suggestions. I'll take good suggestions into account when making the budget for next year. Thank you for all these suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6711	Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I remind you, according to Article 152, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly, can set a day for the vote on the draft budget law during the session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and in particular on the other points of the agenda. I set a day for voting on the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, with proposals for decisions, for 4 November 2008, starting at 14.45 p.m. After that, we'll continue to work, so when we're done voting, we'll continue to work. Today time of break will coincide with the time of the tennis match and the length of the break will be so great. After 18 hours, we'll continue to work on the agenda. Thank you. [[After break – 14.50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Budget of Serbia for 2008. I remind you, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 of Article 105, that the year and the amendments to the financial plans of the Republic of Serbia's Republic Fund for Pension and Invaluable Security, the National Employment Service and the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's Health Security Service before we move to a decision on the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. For 127, against 21, they did not vote two out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle, and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that, by written means, amendments were withdrawn by MPs: Milan Dimitrijevic to Article 5. Proposal for a Law; MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Mladen Grujic, and Milutin Jelic as member of Section 5 of Sections 9, 14 and 19. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote six out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote seven out of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote eight out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 127, six out of 135 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Nenad Prokic, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 126, two of the 134 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 13(2). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, six out of 132 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Maric and Stefan Zankov. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 5. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and Zoran Babic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, eight of the 134 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 10 of the 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of point 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, seven of the 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, seven of the 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 8 out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 5. The 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26th and 3rd of the Treaty. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote nine out of 134 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 5. The 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 5. Section 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2), paragraphs 1 and 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, six out of 133 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 5. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2), paragraphs 1 and 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In five, against 124, nine out of 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Zlata Djeric. A representative of the motion during the review of the draft law has accepted the amendment in particular, with a correction. The Finance Committee has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 148, it did not vote four out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. To Article 5. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2), paragraphs 1 and 6. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 28 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Article 5. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 20 of the 146 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5 of Sections 3, 8 and 14 of the amendment, MP Vladan Batic was submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 126, it did not vote 13, out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 126, there were no votes of eight, of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Sections 3, 15, 26 and 48 of the 5th, by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 127, six out of 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 29 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, he did not vote 21 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Division of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 20 out of 147 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Nikola Lazic to Sections 3 and 8. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, 7 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to article 5th of the amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Nenad Prokic submitted the 3rd amendment to article 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 127, 15 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic to section 5th and 19th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, v. 127, it did not vote eight out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 28 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible, as the Budget Law cannot change the name of the budgetary user. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 121, 30 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Micic submitted to the 5th edition of the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 124, 19 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 5th edition of the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 30 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible, as the Budget Law cannot change the name of the budgetary user. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, it did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 12, against 117, there was no vote of 23, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible, as the Budget Law cannot change the name of the budgetary user. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 123, 30 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 5th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. The proposing representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Finance has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 17 of the 154 MPs did not vote for 137. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 5th edition of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The proposer's representative, during the review of the draft law in particular, accepted the amendment. The Finance Committee has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 153, two of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On Article 5, the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, it did not vote 30 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, he did not vote 31, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 5, the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 125, 30 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, he did not vote 31, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic to the 5th Sections 9 and 19th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 127, six out of 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz to Sections 9, 15 and 54. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21 against 125, 9 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Milic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(4) of the Treaty. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 23, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 125, 29 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 125, 10 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Đuric to article 5 of Sections 14, 15 and 54 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 123, 10 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to Sections 14 and 21. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, there was no vote of 8 out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 5th Sections 15 and 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17 against 125, it did not vote 13, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, paragraphs 15 and 20 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, does not comply with Article 5 of the 5th century. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 126, he did not vote 21 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic to section 5th and 21st. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 22, against 127, it did not vote 7, out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th sections of the 15th and 21st amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zeljko Tomic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 126, there was no vote of 8 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Mile Ilic and Nikola Savic to section 5 of the 5th and 54th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 120, two abstentions, 10 did not vote, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 5th Divisions 15th and 54th amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted the amendment to Sections 15 and 54 of the 5th. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, v. 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 157 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On page 5 of the 16th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with the correction, legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 8, against 124, there was no vote of 23, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 122, 26 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Predrag Mijatovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 125, 30 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Pejcic to section 5 of the 19th and 54th of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 124, there were no 11 votes, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 125, 29 of the 157 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, there was no vote of 27, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. In two, against 124, 30 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 36 and 3. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 126, 9 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 126, a abstentioned one, did not vote 27, out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Ostojic to article 5. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For eight, against 125, 22 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 2(2) point. Six and seven. Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 124, he did not vote 31, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted to article 5 by MP Gojko Radic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 125, 29 of the 156 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 5, the 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 120, 29 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. To Section 5, 26 and 55. Together, the amendment was submitted by MPs Balin Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Laslo Varga, Esad Djudjevic and Bajram Omeragic. Since the proposing representative (in the course of the review of the draft law in particular) and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 6th Division of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Maras and Zoran Ostojić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On article 6, the 58th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 124, it was not 13 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For seven, against 124, there was no vote of 23, of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 128, 27 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 125, 29 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 122, 32 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 126, 27 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 in general. For 127, against 17, it did not vote 9 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia, we are moving to a decision on the proposals for decisions agreed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the financial plans for the year 2008 of the Republic of PIO Fund, the National Employment Service and the RZO. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2008 Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO. For 127, they did not vote 24 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2008 Decision on amendments and additions to the financial plan of the Republic PIO Fund. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2008 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan. For 127, he did not vote 21 out of 148 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2008 Decision on amendments and additions to the National Employment Service's financial plan. I would like to put the motion for a decision to give its consent to the 2008 amending and supplementing the RZO financial plan. For 127, against one, he did not vote 21 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the 2008 amending and supplementing the RZO financial plan. Dear People's MPs, a number of amendments to the text of the draft law have been adopted, some of which require technical harmonisation of certain provisions of the bill with the amendments adopted. Namely, pursuant to Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, the budget consists of a general and specific piece that must be brought into line with the types of expenditure. Some of the amendments have been amended in a specific part of the budget, which has not been followed by appropriate technical harmonisation of the general budget provisions. With that in mind, I suggest that the National Assembly's service, before the publication of the law, in co-operation with the appropriate government service, carry out this technical harmonisation of the text of the law, with the amendments adopted. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the Members of Parliament to plead with him. For 126, against two, it did not vote 16 out of 144 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Member of the SRS Group, pursuant to Article 162(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-2621/08 of 24 October 2008 and to be considered within the 5th agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 130, against one, it did not vote 18, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Member of the SPS-JS Group, pursuant to Article 162(3). The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that, following an urgent procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-2686/08 of 29 October 2008 and to be considered within the 5th agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 135, it did not vote 14 out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Group G 17 plus, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-2699/08 of 30 October 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. There was no 18 vote for 131, out of 149 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Group G 17 plus, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, No 02-2758/08 of 3 November 2008. I put this proposal to the vote and for 135, 15 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 162(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the termination of the court's office, No 118-2790/08 be put on the agenda as of 4 November 2008. I put this proposal to the vote, and for 131, there was no vote of 20, of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of the Judge's office, No 118-2790/08, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I'm putting this proposal to the vote and I'm asking you to press the corresponding key. 15 of the 146 MPs did not vote for 131. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, it is the time of debate, according to parliamentary groups, the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no word reports on the lists of MPs, I conclude a unique search. After we have concluded a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: For European Serbia 02 - 2443/08 of 9 October 2008, SRS 02-2621/08 of 24 October 2008, SPS - JS 02-2686/2008 of 29 October 2008, G 17 plus 02-2699/08 of 30 October 2008, G 17 plus 02-2758/08 of 3 November 2008. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, it is the time of debate, according to parliamentary groups, the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the G17 group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the parliamentary group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so so far, to file a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of the proposing - People's MPs - Nada Kolundzija, the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Dragan Todorovic, the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Branko Ruzic, the president of the SPS - JS and Suzanne Grubjesic, the president of the G 17 Plus Group, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no reports on the lists, I conclude a unique search of the motions for decisions. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on all these proposals in the voting day. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF OBLIGATION TO OBLIGATIONS ON CONTRIBUTIONS ON DEFINITIVE DESCRIPTION AND APPROVAL OF THE SOCIAL OBJECTIVES As the National Assembly has carried out a general search, in accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, I conclude the review of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Peace and Fired by the Debt on the basis of the Competence for Obliged Health Security You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law: Željko Ivanji, Simo Vuković and Milan Dimitrijevic, as well as the amendment of the Finance Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. On the basis of Article 146, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Legislative Committee, as an untimely one, rejected the amendment of MP Zoran Kasalovic to Article 8. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Zeljko Ivanji proposed amendments to Articles 3, 5, 6, 7 and 12 by one amendment. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Simo Vukovic proposed amendments to Articles 3, 9 and 11. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 8. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Mr. Dimitrijevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6713	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by submitting amendments to Article 14. I tried to point out something that was provided for by this law. The law stipulates that due to the acquisition of the right on the second basis of health insurance, no one can write off interest. I don't think that's right, first of all, to those people who regularly paid their health insurance and it's not right for someone who didn't pay their insurance to pay the same rights as the people who paid their insurance on a regular basis. As so far, in the draft budget rebalancing law, as well as in all laws, amendments to the opposition are not accepted, which is a sort of pride and irresponsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-04-0.u6714	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Simo Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and the decision on the first item of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 5 November 2008, starting at 10:30, as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Thank you. We vote tomorrow at 10:30. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 147 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we have working conditions. Since the National Assembly has also carried out a principle search in particular, that is, a unique search on all points of the agenda of this session, we move to a decision on the second item of the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a COURT OF COURT OF OBLIGATION TO OBLIGATIONS ON THE BASE OF DESCRIPTIONS AND DEFINITIONS FOR OBLIGATION OF SOCIAL OBLIGATIONS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security, in principle. For 128, of 128 MPs. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security in general. For 128, two of the 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a PEACE LAW AND OUTLOAD OF THE LONG ON THE BASE OF THE CONFORMITY SURVEILLANCES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the standstill and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, in principle. For 128, against one, two of the 131 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the draft law in principle, and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, pursuant to Article 146(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, dismissed as an untimely amendment by MP Zoran Kasalovic to Article 8. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Željko Ivanjia - who once proposed amendments in Articles 3, 5, 6, 7 and 12 and Sim Vukovic - who proposed amendments in Articles 3, 9 and 11 to the amendments in Article 17. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, submitted an amendment to Article 8. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 128, two of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 127, three of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, in general. For 128, two of the 130 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted the draft law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION TO STOP THE JUDICATION After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motions for decisions, we move to a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2406/08. For 128, they did not vote two out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2406/08. I put to the vote a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2709/08. For 128, it did not vote five out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office, number 118-2709/08. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposals for decisions, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the selection of board members decides by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, No 02-2443/08, since 9 October 2008. For 162, one of the 163 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, No 02-2443/08, on 9 October 2008. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, No 02-2621/08, since 24 October 2008. For 163, against one, there were four, out of 168 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly Committee, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, No 02-2621/08, on 24 October 2008. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia parliamentary group, No 02-2686/08, since 29 October 2008. Six out of 170 MPs didn't vote for 164. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia-United Serbia's parliamentary group, No 02-2686/08, since 29 October 2008. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which has been tabled by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, No 02-2699/08, since 30 October 2008. For 166, six out of 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 plus parliamentary group, No 02-2699/08, since 30 October 2008. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, No 02-2758/08, as of 3 November 2008. For 162, 10 of the 172 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the G17 plus parliamentary group, No 02-2758/08, since 3 November 2008. Since we have come to terms with all the proposals for decisions, I ask if you agree that all adopted proposals for publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" as a legal-technically united act – Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 168, they did not vote four out of 172 MPs. The National Assembly unanimously adopted this proposal. We move to a decision on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). A Rules of Procedure under which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Slobodan Maras, at a session on 30 October 2008, at 17.12 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. In five, against 122, 9 of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Arsen Đuric, at a session on 31 October 2008, at 21.30 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 125, 9 did not vote, out of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Miroslav Petkovic, at a session on 31 October 2008, at 21 o'clock and 32 minutes, pointed to an injury. 100th and 104th. Rules of Procedure. I ask that Members of Parliament decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Against 126, 10 of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. National MP Milica Vojić-Marković, at a session on 31 October 2008, at 21:00 and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 126, 10 of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Dragan Shormaz, at a session on 31 October 2008, at 21:00 and 50 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 123, 13 of the 136 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Vladan Jeremic, at a session on 31 October 2008, at 22 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 100 of position 4. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. For one against 125, 12 out of 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not decided that the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. As you know, at 12:00 we begin our next session. Thank you. (The session is closed at 11.05 p.m. )
