ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1914	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 194 which regulates the government's representation in the National Assembly. Madam President, during yesterday's consultation, I asked you, I think I said what was practically the opinion of the other heads of parliament, that today's debate is being held in the appropriate and necessary atmosphere for the normal decision-making and work of the Republic of Parliament. Today, as representatives of the government, Vice-President Djelic and Minister Skundric are in front of us. Can we get an answer to the question of where our Prime Minister is and what does the Prime Minister do today as important as the debate on such an important agreement, such as an energy agreement with the Russian Federation? We've heard so much in favor of this agreement, a lot of criticism in his account, but I think the debate, if we start this way, is below all levels. It is an agreement that was signed or signed on behalf of this country in the Kremlin by the highest representatives of our country, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, who was then appointed by Minister Ilic, who is here today a National MP. Answer us a question about where the prime minister is and whether there is a possibility that the prime minister will appear here in the Assembly Hall, so that the Prime Minister can discuss very important issues with us and get some answers that he cannot give us, because he simply does not have the power to do so, and also Vice President Djelic, since he is the vice president in charge of European integration and at the same time vice president who performs the tasks of the Minister of Science. That's just the question. If we are not satisfied with your answer, of course we will continue our discussion, we will not call on the Rules of Procedure, but we will consider that you have not done your job properly because here to discuss the need for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1915	Your suggestion is obviously made publicly, so I can't answer you any more, except that your suggestion about who should be present is clearly passed on to the Prime Minister. It is estimated at the Government that this is a competent composition for today's agenda. Here you go, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Jovanovic is absolutely right. When you signed this contract in the campaign, it wasn't hard for you to have the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the entire government, take a picture and broadcast the footage for five days about how we finally establish real relations with the Russian Federation. Now that that's on confirmation here, in the only place where it can be confirmed, now it doesn't matter, it's not an election. Now there is neither the President of the Republic nor the Prime Minister, now Bozidar Djelic, whose co-operation with Russia I suppose is irrelevant, has the money to earn, has earned here and before Serbia, but does not matter as much as European integration. Of course, we will participate in this session, and we welcome that you must speak of the Russians as a country from which Serbia will soon depend, but because of the importance that the Russian Federation has not only for Serbia, but for the whole world, I join the protest because the government here is not represented by the president. I'm not saying that it's not adequately presented when there are ministers and vice presidents, but I really do believe that when historical agreements are made with the Russian Federation that applause should be seen here by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1917	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1918	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would remind you that on July 10th, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has appointed Mr Vuk Jeremic, Minister of Foreign Affairs as its representative in the National Assembly on this agenda, and that you have informed us at the beginning of the session that the Government will also be represented by the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Dragin. The only people not mentioned as government representatives on this agenda are Vice-President Djelic and Energy Minister Skundric, who are standing before us today. Since there must be some order in parliament and so far it has been more or less respected, even if that part of parliamentary practice has been respected, please tell us when the government in writing informed the Assembly that it has changed its representatives and for representatives, instead of Mr Jeremic and Dragin, it has appointed Mr Djelic and Mr Skundric. Not that it gives some verbal explanations, but a very clear letter - when has parliament been asked to change the representatives of the government? Once again, I ask you to talk to the prime minister during the day and give us an answer to the question -- what is more important to the Prime Minister than what we are discussing today in the Serbian Parliament. So much has been said about the energy agreement, that it is historic, that it is of vital interest to our people, so much is disputed in this agreement, even the ruling coalition is not unique to its quality, character, the way it was achieved. Those questions can only be answered by the Prime Minister. Mr. Skundric and I can discuss some aspects of these agreements, because he is also very much in charge of such a thing, and I don't know what we can discuss with Mr. Djelic, because I'm sure he can't answer those questions that we're going to ask him. In any case, let us know when the government has changed its representatives. Vuk Jeremic, on July 10th, we received a memo Monday that the government will be represented by Minister Dragin, just not mentioned Mr Djelic and Mr Skundric, who are here today as representatives of the government. In a bad way, we're starting a discussion on such an important agenda point. In advance, we suspect that we will receive the necessary answers so that we can contribute in an adequate way to the realization of this job, and therefore our arguments that we oppose the realisation of the agreement signed in Moscow, in the presence of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, are even stronger, in order to send before the Republic of Parliament today a message to the citizens of Serbia that more respect of our country is pointing to Putin than to the Serbian Parliament. Find an example when Putin treated Duma, so we'll go over that fact, but that kind of disrespect, that kind of ignoring institution is something we can't agree on and it'll change. It will change during this session or some of the future, but it will no longer be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1919	Thank you. I would like to inform you that on 16 July 2008 the National Assembly of the Government Secretary arrived at a letter informing the Assembly that, in accordance with Article 194 of position 1 and Article 93 of Section 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, in addition to the government's authorised motions to represent the Government in the National Assembly when considering issues raised by the government at the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting in 2008, announces that representatives of the Government in the National Assembly will be Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technology and Development, and Dr Petar Škundric, Minister of Mining and Energy. That would be the answer to your question. First, Mr Nenad Popovic answered, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1920	The DSS will participate in the discussion in any case, regardless of what Prime Minister Cvetkovic did not come to this session. We thank Vice-President Djelic and Minister Skundric for coming, but we really think this is a historic day for the Republic of Serbia, the day we ratify the best energy agreement, the best economic agreement Serbia has signed in the last 40 years and we think Prime Minister Cvetkovic's presence is necessary. Prime Minister Cvetkovic attended the signing of only one simple memorandum of understanding in Kragujevac with the "Fiyat" during the election campaign, and found it appropriate to attend this major event. To remind me, President Tadic and then Prime Minister Kostunica attended the signing of this agreement in the Kremlin. In any case, we will participate in the discussion, regardless of the fact that Prime Minister Cvetkovic is not there, but we really consider this an underestimation of the Assembly and underestimation of this historic agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1921	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1922	I am not satisfied with your response, Mrs Djukic, because it was desirable for the entire government of the Republic of Serbia to sit here. If you had heard and understood, you should have invited both the president of the DSS and the presidents of other parliamentary political parties to attend this session is much more important than the head of the cabinet of a minister. I don't know if you understand the historical significance of today's session. Do you know how much Serbia opens its lungs if we ratify this agreement and how important it is to us MPs, especially to us from the SRS. Why doesn't it matter to the rest of you? Why is it not important to the President of the Republic, what is he doing from the presence of ratification of this Agreement? Why didn't he come out to convince us one more time that this was a historic event? What are you afraid to see about how much we're tied to Russia? What kind of fear does that catch you? Russia does not resent Serbia for Serbia's desire in the EU. The EU is working with Russia. So she can resent Serbia for wanting to co-operate with the Russian Federation. We need to open two gates, both east and west. Now that we're opening up to the East and the West, show that they're equally important to us, show that one euro is important to us wherever it comes from. Show that every job is important to us wherever it comes from. Show that you too understand how energy is the future of the whole world and how much it's been embodies for the Russian Federation. Don't give us a letter from the secretary of the government, since it's one simple clerk, almost as few as many others. We're interested in the presence, the appearance, the symbol of today's session. The symbol of today's session is that all Serbia wants to ratify this agreement. If so, then the place for those chosen by Serbia, one way or another, for the highest state functions, was the place for today's name in these benches. There is no question whether we should participate or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1923	Thank you. Do the proposing representatives, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, or Dr Petar Skundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1924	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that the agenda of the first session of the new assembly is actually historic. When we look at the agenda points, we see that, like the previous and the following, it is an extremely important moment for our country and I appeal to the entire ruling coalition, and I am confident that we will reach a broad consensus on this case, that all MPs support this agreement for the reason that it is in the deepest national interest of our country. I want, before I give the word to my esteemed colleague Skundric, to give a few elements to better look at this arrangement in the overall sense and that our public would be familiar with all aspects of such an arrangement. When we talk about energy, when we talk about economics, these are important things, but when we talk about oil and gas, about what is today the biggest possible debate in the world, we can talk about strategic directions and questions for any country, even our own. Today is the question of energy at the heart of all debates, it is one of the most important elements and relations between blocks and states, and at the same time we can say that our country, with one such agreement, will succeed, as is the case with the SAA and some other elements, to be a full member or player in one big game and that through such an arrangement our country will have a chance to become an important factor, an important element on the European-energy map. When we say the European energy map, it's not just Russia, it's Europe and something beyond, because if we look at evolution in energy markets for the last few years, although for decades oil has been said to have come to an end, and there are still no, yet most experts today will say that, given the consumption, globalisation, much greater consumption by China, India, Brazil and many other countries, and some new findings like the one found again in Russia's territory near the North Pole, and also in Brazil, we still see more and more that the oil supply issue will become very important in the years to come. Like any slave when it's less likely to be in enough amount its price is rising, no one knows exactly what direction the price of oil will go, but we've all seen, we've witnessed that the barrel of oil has moved from about $20 to today some 115, and there have been higher prices. Rarely anyone will say that price will go down. On the contrary, there is a projection that this price may be even higher. The first thing, that there is oil, and the question is how much longer they will have in the years to come and it will be very important that we have strategic partners who will have enough locations and, of course, with traditional friendly relations, that we have the same partners in whose interest it is to develop our oil industry. I'm starting with oil, because it's about gas. I thought it was a little less debate. Gazprom oil, which is a member of the Gazprom Group, is today the world's leading oil company, which has the largest gap between, on the one hand, those sites that control and its processing capacity. All oil companies are trying to integrate vertically, because most of the added value by some fixed order is in distribution, processing and distribution. The processing that has been the subject of less interest in recent years is much more interesting today and we can therefore say that of all major oil companies, Gazprom oil is the one in which it is most interested to develop the processing capacity of our oil industry. And that's very important for our country, although we didn't talk much about it during the previous debate. One of the commitments our country has made in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the liberalisation of the market, including the oil derivatives markets. I would like to remind the respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia that our country must liberalise that market by the end of 2010, and it is very important that our Panchevo and Novi Sad refineries are qualified for this regional and global match, because otherwise we will be the target for importing various refineries, and many of them have received strategic partners in years behind us, who will seek new markets, and Serbia will then appear as one of the most interesting ones. The very gain in the oil part of a strong partner who is in the interest of developing the processing capacity in our territory is very important. In addition, we must monitor regional and global development in this industry and it is so much more important because of the possible mergers of existing companies in this region that, as far as partners are concerned, we choose those who will give the most benefits in our country on the long run and without any doubt, Gazprom oil is one of the most interesting possible ones that we can have. As far as the gauge is concerned, I won't talk about it, but believe me, a half-billion-euro investment will be more, the ability of the processing capacity to increase from the current three million tonnes to about seven and a half million tonnes over the next few years. It's a recipe for success in the oil industry for our country. As for the gas arrangement, we have three major projects in Europe today. One is Nabucco, which is a very open attempt by the EU to diversify its gas supply sources. However, as we can see, on the one hand, this project has certain problems in terms of finding sufficient natural gas findings that will be able to supply such a large project, and in any case, of course, our country is present in the Nabucco project, but we are never offered to pass this pipeline through our territory, to simplify, we are told -- you were under great difficulties, under the embargo, and then it was decided that this pipeline will go through Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary, it is simply so. The remaining two pipelines, one is the North Stream, which passes between Russia's Baltic Sea and reaches Germany, and the third important energy project, which was called the Blue Stream, the South Stream, has been there for a number of specifics, the last four or five years is the South Stream, and our country has been offered to be part of that big project. The project, of course, is a Russian Gazprom project. Gazprom is already today, depending on stock fluctuations, i.e. Share in the international capital market, one day the third, one day the fifth, always among the first six to seven global companies, its capitalisation today represents about $320 billion. As Mr. Miller, who is chairman of the company's executive director, said, the goal of Gazprom is to become the world's largest company within five years, with a thousand-billion-dollar capitalisation. That ambition is not impossible, it rests on having Gazprom control over the world's largest natural gas sites. That goes on. They continue to invest that they have additional findings, while, of course, they want to provide supplies for their largest markets. Europe is today and remains in perspective the largest market for Russian gas, we have seen the past few weeks and perhaps in the biggest crisis in European-Russian relations since the Cold War, yet we have seen both partners and how they approach each other carefully and in no way want to endanger overall economic and political relations. Gas is a very important element in this and therefore it is very important for Serbia to be present in the South Stream pipeline project, which is not only a Russian, but a Russian-European project. It should be recalled that the start of the South Stream is an agreement that Russia's Gazprom has achieved with Italy's Eni, and hence since the beginning of this pipeline is a Russian and European project for our country and should also be reminded that, due to the EU's energy policy, the pipeline itself and the route itself will have to be approved by the European Commission. In this sense, we see the connection of everyone in this globalised world and the interest that our country has in developing multilayer and political, foreign and economic diplomacy, because only in this way in what is the reality of the world in 2008 can we win and we can win. In this sense, it is very important that we be present in this Russian-European project. Several countries have already ratified the agreement and several member states. The last one to do this, we saw three days ago, is Greece, which has ratified a similar project in its parliament. A large number of countries are interested in being on this track. It brings security in the security of natural gas, and it is very important that not only the citizens, but also the industry have a good interest in it, and I can say that one of the companies in Serbia, which is of the most interested in the passage of the South Stream through our country - US steel, because it is very important for it to pass one of these pipelines through our country. Now in the conclusion of the bar of my opening presentation, before my colleague Skundric enters into the details of this agreement, I would like to say a few words about the various debates that have appeared on this agreement. First thing, that's whether the price offered for NIS is enough. It is now an answer for certain MPs, I have dealt with this and as vice president of the task force that developed this agreement and I led a group that runs relations between Russia and our country, is not a secret, because you can find this in many statements, that I was saying that it was more convenient to sell NIS separately in a tender and only a minority package. That's what I was saying. But things have changed two ways. The first thing is that no one could have predicted these changes in the price of oil. The second thing, like the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, reflects one reality and relative force in negotiation and opportunities, is also a reflection of a certain reality. If I were to speak very simply, could Serbia in some respect have come to a slightly higher price if it had gone to a separate tender and sold NIS in tranches in the next 15 to 20 years, similar to what they did, for example, for the sake of Hungary and Austria? The answer is, probably yes. On the other hand, it is very clear in the negotiations of the Russian Federation that it sees the energy agreement as a whole, that they want to build a pipeline with us, but that they also want to establish relations in the domain of the oil industry. That's the whole story and that's the whole reality. That is why we should look at this agreement in its entirety. It's easy to find a flaw in one part, but if we look at it in general, and I haven't even talked about the geopolitical meaning of a Serbia through which one of the three largest energy projects that are being built in the next 10 years on the continent, we can see that these arguments that I hear sometimes have far less power than they seem to have at the first step. The last thing I want to say is that as far as the second part is concerned, and that is the question whether through this agreement, we are in any way deviating from certain European standards, the answer is decadent - no. In no way does Serbia accept in this agreement that the European Union's environmental or security standards are reduced. I said, and as far as trade liberalisation is concerned, that we keep what was agreed with the European Union, so we have harmony here and there is no opposition between our participation in a huge energy agreement and what our European aspirations are. Finally, as far as the Vojvodina is concerned, there are often some arguments that possibly in this case it remains denied. I'm saying you need to look at things in perspective. Of course it is in the interest of Vojvodina to make very significant, some of the biggest investments in the processing and oil industry come to Vojvodina. Of course it is in the interest of the Vojvodina to pass the pipeline through its territory because so many investors want to come to Vojvodina, and the possibility of getting to the safe and good price of natural gas is an argument more for Vojvodina, so if we look at this issue, we will see that, like the rest of our country, Vojvodina is of course winning. I just want to conclude now and say that this energy agreement, as well as this agreement with Europe, doesn't seem to be idealized, but at the same time it doesn't need to be diminished. So, come on, Mr. Todorovic, let's ratify this agreement. He and enthusiasm for him are no less than for the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and I expect, as is the case with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that this home in the vast majority, hopefully, will confirm this energy agreement. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Energy and Mining Minister Prof. Petar Skundric reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1926	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, Honored Professor Djukic-Dejanovic, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy, is contained in Article 99(1) of point 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. The importance of an oil-gas arrangement with the Russian Federation and its realisation can be fully explained and understood if it is seen in the full complexity of the importance of energy in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1927	I'd like to ask if we can hear the speaker. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1928	Energy is the basis for the development of overall material production and consumption of goods and has a multiple effect on the economic performance of the production process. It represents a strong absorbent of a series of high-tech products, one of the basic foundations of the overall development of each country. Long ago in 1897, Nikola Tesla, our great man who enlarged and enriched the life of all mankind with his inventions, said in a speech at Niagara Falls that the development and progress of cities and the success of nations had no availability of energy, from one, and the constant expansion of its way of getting from different sources, on the other. The development of energy today more than in Tesla's time is at the same time an important condition and a strong basic modifier of economic structure and a pro-pulsive factor of economic development. The importance of energy for the development of society and the understanding of its place and roles in the economy and society as a whole has contributed to the development of energy policy towards ensuring safe and sufficient amounts of energy, as low as possible, in order to enable the desired or planned social development.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1929	Excuse me, I don't think we're sending a message with the atmosphere in the O.R. that this point is really important to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1930	In defining the long-term economic policy, there must always be high interdependence on the development of energy and other economies, increasing energy needs, significant changes that have occurred and are happening on the world energy market, the current oil crisis expressed in one-dimensional price growth and the increasing impact of production and energy consumption on the environment have contributed to today's energy, economy, ecosystem and efficiency becoming multidimensional, huge problems of humanity's development. Dear People's MPs, I am particularly speaking to you who wanted to send the best message from this session of the National Assembly, to create normal conditions to listen to us so that we can truly assess both the historical and strategic, and the developmental role and the importance of this arrangement that we are talking about today. The adoption of a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy would create conditions for the development of our country's energy to be firmly based on a rational energy policy, in line with the overall energy potential and economic development in the near and further future. The gas-oil arrangement with the Russian Federation is one of the most significant strategic and development projects in Serbia over the next 30 to 50 years. The project covers the construction of an international master's pipeline through the Republic of Serbia, a hand-off station, the main measuring-regulatory station. It provides the possibility of building congenerative thermal power plants, plants that simultaneously produce heat and electricity and include reconstruction and recapitalisation of the oil industry of Serbia. Realising this project makes Serbia a strategic partner at the same time with the Russian Federation and the EU. As you know, the South Stream project represents the construction of a master's pipeline through the Black Sea aquarium to deliver Russian natural gas to the countries of Central and Southern Europe. Realisation of this project as a result of the diversification of export flows will allow an increase in the energy security of European countries of consumers of Russian natural gas. As one of the transit countries, Serbia will improve or strengthen its geostrategic, economic and political position. The start of the first natural gas deliveries to the South Stream pipeline is planned for 2013. In Serbia today, gas is used by around 1,000 industrial consumers and 170,000 households. Serbia's energy development strategy envisions a 400,000 increase by 2015. Vojvodina today has nearly 80% of gasified territory, which, unfortunately, is not the case in the wider area of the Republic of Serbia. However, the already built gas distribution system allows for more than 100,000 new users to be connected. From the current 2.4 billion cubic metres of natural gas, consumption would increase to 3.4 billion cubic metres by 2015. This consumption does not include potential gas power plants, i.e. gas consumption for electricity production. There are great potentials in Serbia for the growth of gas consumption, as potentially large consumers, such as bonuses, universities, schools, hotels and business complexes, do not use gas at all or in any way. It's the same with the part of the industry. Careful reading of the agreement on an oil-gas arrangement can easily conclude that its basic objectives are: increasing energy security, providing continuous gas supplies to the Republic of Serbia, transit of natural gas to third countries, improving gas economy in the Republic of Serbia, improving NIS in the Republic of Serbia, providing additional gas supply routes in the Republic of Serbia, building a underground warehouse, which will solve the problem of insufficient gas supply during the winter period, until the South Stream is built, then the warehouse can serve as a good base for gas trade in the region, modernising NIS, which will increase, i.e. at least double the capacity to produce oil derivatives, with fuel quality meeting European standards. Construction of the pipeline and reconstruction of NIS Serbia will get a secure gas supply and the possibility of gasification of the entire Republic of Serbia, secured oil supply and export of derivatives to countries of the region and the EU, the employment of domestic companies when building pipelines through Serbia and further gasification of Serbia. This will be one of the biggest capital investments in the next five years. Additional revenues from transit taxis will be provided, capacity development for the production of electricity and district heating on natural gas, reducing the consumption of its resources in the area of fossil energy, which is important to preserve certain reserves and for future generations. The improvement of ecological conditions, because the thermal combustion of gas does not release sulphur oxides in the atmosphere and creates 40 to 50% less nitrogen oxides than coal or lubricating when using them. Using cogenerative heat power plants, we could become serious exporters of electricity in the winter period, after the implementation of this project. The potential best locations for cogenerative power plants are Novi Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. When it comes to other places, they are interesting: Bor, Subotica, Leskovac, Pirot, Majdanpek, Jagodina, Kikinda and many other places. In addition, conditions will be provided for the development of the gas industry as a poverty base, such as the methanol vinegar complex of Kikinda, for example, or Petrochemy. You know very well that this methanol vinegar complex exports its entire production. Conditions will be provided for new investments, foreign and domestic, which require stable energy supply as a first condition. Then, we will provide conditions for cost reduction, which Serbia now has at the expense of a Russian gas transit taxi across Hungary. As is known, they amount to 60m euros annually. Realising this strategic project will allow Serbia to take a leading position in energy in the Southeast European region over the next six to seven years, increase the employment of its citizens, increase the social product and improve the quality of life. Given that the Russian Federation has completed all procedures necessary for the agreement to come into effect, I urge you to carry out its ratification today and thus allow for the accession of its realisation, for the general good of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1931	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Industry, the People's MP Milorad Buha, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? (No) Does the MP Dr Vladan Batic, who issued an opinion at the Committee on Industry's session, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1932	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, once again on the agenda, we have a point that has been declared historic. Everything that's been happening to us lately we're declaring history. Let's think about the future a little bit, let's not live forever in history, especially when we're prone to falsifying history, so I'm afraid this is also a fake. At the Industry Committee session, I voted against it. Madam President, I've been informed there's no television transmission, so please let's see what we can do next.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1933	I suggest we stop for a moment, it's a two-minute break, if it's necessary, we'll give it a bigger break. [[After break – 11.05]] Gentlemen, let's get back to work. I've been informed there's some interference on cable TV, but RTS is streaming neatly and we're continuing to work. Part of Vojvodina doesn't really see the Assembly, but it's a reason for interference on cable television. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1935	I thank you and we continue. So, at the Industry Committee session, I voted against ratification of the agreement, thinking that it is harmful to Serbia or at least it is debatable what the effects of ratification and signing of this agreement will be, that is, a contract that should follow it. Three kinds of reasons were managed by those who approached the creation of this arrangement. Some believed that Russia would prevent Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and for them no matter what the effects of this arrangement will be. Indeed, if that had happened so we could give the Russians and NIS, because Kosovo is much more valuable than 400m euros. Others thought it useful for marketing purposes to paint with Putin, because it just sounds nice. The third had some personal, smaller or larger motives for lobbying for the conclusion of one such arrangement. I don't want them to be malice, and I don't want to be into pistachios, but it's very indicative and I'm just asking, since some of my friends of football managers and coaches gave me that information, whether one of the vice presidents or ministers in the government was a guest of Zenita, and Zenit is a football club, the winner of UEFA Cup, and otherwise the property of Gazprom, at the finals of the so-called football club. The great cup Zenith played in Monte Carlo against Manchester United. Whether on that occasion the main or, rather, the tycoon here flew to a small airport in a place called Albenga, Italy, 30 - 40 km from Monte Carlo. The second group flew directly from here on a Russian company plane to another small airport called Mendelje and is located near Cannes. It's just not nice. I don't mind that these gentlemen were staying in one of the most expensive restaurants in the world, the owner of Alan Dukas, the world's greatest chef, called the Bifen Bar in Monte Carlo, etc. There may be nothing behind all this, but at least it's ugly. We have heard here for three years and longer that this is the biggest national betrayal, crime and who knows what Zoran Djindjic once in his life flew on a private plane, and nothing to do with the government, government and some business and business. To get back to the point. Russia did not preserve Kosovo. On the contrary, by recognising the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, it seems to me that she has given the right to all those countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It is good that Boris Tadic said in Brussels yesterday that Serbia will not recognise the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. At least that's how we show some degree of consistency. It is not clear to me why the privatisation of NIS and the construction of the pipeline are linked. Experts say that as far as the pipeline is concerned, there are many concerns, whether it will safely pass through Serbia and if it passes whether it will be a freeway gas pipeline, and if it passes and it is a freeway arm, how much its capacity will be eventually realised. Do we have to finance 49% of the pipelines and warehouses in Banatski dvor? The second question is, why didn't NIS go to the tender? Today, we read in the paper that Diloj estimated NIS value to 2.2 billion euros, which means that 51% is over a billion and 100 million euros, which means that it is 700 million more than this price agreed with Gazprom. Doesn't a small Serbia have so many opportunities and so many financial tanks that it can honor powerful Russia with 700m euros, and the issue is in the tender, it might be more than a billion and 100m. Then we're told as an argument -- they're going to invest another 500 million. He'll invest in his own. Buy a house and paint it, rebuild it, renovate it, and have a more valuable house for what you have invested in it. And then the next question is asked, and the experts again say that on behalf of 49%, we will have to invest 49% in this future NIS. Then what did the Russians give us? That's the fact that I don't have a lot of time, just for a minute, I'll talk more about them by amendment. Formal reasons, in addition to the agreement in Moscow, a protocol has been signed. The protocol defined all details: quantities, prices, deadlines, conditions. You know, when someone buys or sells something at the country market, there are two basic elements of that purchase contract, goods and prices. Now we're offered here to sign something that's not over yet, we're just gonna negotiate. How is that possible? Then what are we ratifying? A letter of intent, a list of good wishes, fog. That's not how you can do it. Or it should ratify everything, including the protocol that defined everything or some try, as well as the Horgos-Požega concession, the privatisation of Bora, to find themselves some spare position. I hope Martin Schlaff isn't in that spare position.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1936	The Socialist Party of Serbia's MP group, Unity Serbia, has authorised Mr Dusan Bajatovic, a MP, to be at this point in the referendum. Does the MP, Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1937	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, as referred to in Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will give an explanation, which is why I issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. Namely, every law has materially-legal, process-law and political segments. At that session of the Legislative Committee, we were mostly discussing the political segments of this law, which is not exactly in line with Article 45. Rules of Procedure. As we discussed the political segments of this law, before we discussed the SAA, there was some sort of division in terms of who is for European integration, who is for Russia and, accordingly, the debate was held. Adequately, what happened yesterday in the Assembly has reduced tensions, I think we can discuss clearly the legal and economic attributes of this law, especially when we saw that EU accession should not be tragically understood as being understood by a part of the MPs, nor should Russia be seen in such a way, especially after a statement by Russia's ambassador to Tirana, who said that it is not a priority against Kosovo's independence, but only favouring the continuation of the negotiations. So, according to Article 45. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The Legislative Committee should determine whether any law is legal, or whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, whether or not it can enter the procedure as such. This law to which we have tabled the amendment, the LDP parliamentary group, is first contrary to Articles 83, 84 and 89. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 83 concerns the freedom of entrepreneurship, a member of the 84th position on the market, a member of 89 concerns the preservation of heritage and, accordingly, the preservation of natural goods. Next to what I was saying about the violation of the Constitution, there is also a violation of the legislation that follows, so questions can be asked where there is respect for the legal provisions on the anti-monopoly position, i.e. legal regulations concerning the prevention of monopoly. The question is then why the provisions of the rules on privatisation, the preservation of public goods, etc. are violated. About what I've stated, I'm going to give a very specific explanation. The agreement avoided a regular legal privatisation procedure. Based on the provisions of the contract given to us on ratification, it appears that the sale will be made at a much lower price than the real market value, that the agreement does not exclude oil sites in our country's territory, so in this way, without implementing a proper procedure, it is subject to the use of economic wealth, which is contrary to existing legislation, and in relation to Article 89. The constitution, which I was just talking about. The agreement does not mention any obligations of Russian partners, nor does it concern existing environmental standards in legislation. The signatories of the agreement on the Serbian side did not take care of the obligation existing in EU legislation, which is directly contrary to what was reached yesterday in the Assembly's agreement. These rules say that each Member State has at least 30% of the oil reserves in its annual consumption, unless it has its own sites, etc. I think it's based on all this stuff that I've listed, and it's consistent with Article 45. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a violation of the Constitution and legal regulation. Accordingly, we believe that such a law is not legally possible and that is why, as a representative of the LDP, I have issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. I ask the government's representatives to give adequate answers to the tax-listed questions I've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1938	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, go ahead and then Dusan Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1939	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, what we have heard so far, excluding MPs who have excluded their opinion on the committees of Parliament, can only be described as scandalous, as something that is shameful, as something that this Parliament must be ashamed of. What you said, Mr. Djelic, and you, Mr. Skundric, cannot be described differently. I will remind you of just one of the facts that you have bypassed during your presentation, the fact that it speaks of inequality, the humiliating relationship that the governments of the Republic of Serbia, and Kostunica and Tadic agree through this agreement. In the case of a possible dispute between the two agreed parties, between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, an exclusive version of the agreement in Russian is valid. Such a provision is unimaginable in modern interstate political or commercial relations. It's actually an expression of that time that was described as a colonial age. A similar provision does not exist in any of the many agreements signed by the Russian Federation with other countries, including Greece, which you so euphorically mentioned, Mr Djelic. Then why don't we discuss it in Russian so we know what we're talking about, why you've given us a version of the agreement in Serbian that's not valid. What to say about your report, Mr. Skundrich. You're a professor in Belgrade, a professor in St. Petersburg. I wouldn't appreciate your expertise, but you do textiles and textile engineering. It has nothing to do with an oil and gas deal with the Russian Federation. Finally, you did not even participate in this document. When did you, Mr. Djelic, discover that Russia has oil? In January of this year. This country adopted an energy strategy in 2005, a strategy of its energy development, which is directly contrary to what your government is now doing and for what it is seeking support from parliament, directly opposite. When did we discover, Mr. Skundrich, that Russia had oil? In January of this year. That there's gas? In January of this year. Who is responsible for what is in front of parliament today, for the debate in which we bypass each of these shameful, terrible, unacceptable attitudes that humiliate this country. With what country did Russia sign such an agreement? Which one of the states with which Russia signed the agreement gave gold to the Russian Federation? That's not what your Free Milosevic did in 97. We lynched him when he sold Telekom for a billion and seven hundred million marks, but he kept his gold stake in Telekom. Let the Prime Minister appear here, let the President of the Republic come. Who, Mr. Popovic, was our country's legal and financial advisor in this business? Well done to you and Dejan Mihajlov, but I'll tell you who was the legal and financial adviser to Gazprom, the financial "Mary Lynch", the legal "Fresh End Fields", the two strongest legal and financial houses in the world. Yours was "Mary Lynch" until the moment you didn't leave the concept, "Mary Lynch" and Raiffeisen, so you left that concept of privatisation. "Mary Lynch" and Raiffeisen said -- there's no majority privatisation of NIS, that minority package. So you left them. Get out here and tell them they didn't say that. How is the price of NIS established? How much is NIS worth? The state pays 400,000 euros "Diloit and shower". Can we get an answer to that question? What happens to this country in a situation where it will be found when this agreement is ratified? Gazprom 51%, the Republic of Serbia 49% in the new company. What is the company's founding capital: 500 euros, 1,000 euros, 5,000 euros, 500,000 euros? What is the founding capital of a company that is thus formed? What does Serbia bring into this company, what does Gazprom bring in? Serbia is bringing in everything it has, bringing in the infrastructure that has been created for 50 years, bringing in a market that is protected by state monopolies. What's Gazprom bringing in? Big potential. What problem have we had as Serbia in economic co-operation with the Russian Federation so far? As I recall, the only problem was that we didn't have the money to pay for what could always be bought on the Russian market and what would be bought in the future. Where is the agreement that you offer, both in the Serbian and Russian versions, there is a guarantee that in any way Serbia will be offered anything below the market price? Whether we can get answers to these questions or this will turn into what is normally every debate in the Serbian congregation: a three-hour standoff in which no one wants to commit itself to the essence. You didn't learn that at colleges in France, Mr. Djelic, and you, Mr. Skundric, definitely couldn't learn that in the party you were in and where you were now while she was in power. That's not what Slobodan Milosevic did. What Kostunica did, Boris Tadic and Milosevic did not do. We know very well why we kneeled before Russia. We kneeled for Kosovo. Today we know that the government's resolution on Kosovo will be withdrawn, because this policy has been defeated, and what the Americans have done to us, then the Russians have done to another country. I just don't want Serbia to ever be a polygon on which the sustainability of international law will be measured. Let's analyze all of this in the agreement, so let's say at point 1 that the proposed agreement provides that the future company and the Russian side have at least 51% ownership, but also absolute control of all the resources under that company, absolute control. Only 400 million is paid to NIS. How much was NIS last year? The Russian Federation will invest 500 million. Well, 300 million was last year's profit. We will get 400m euros for what we will give NIS and 500m more investment. How much is the mineral rent on gas and oil sites in Vojvodina: 3%. What's in Russia: 70%. The Russians here will do what they can't do in their country and they're not responsible for it. Anyone who deals with business is looking for as much profit and as little cost as possible, and then this should be called a gift. Last year you criticized Tomislav Nikolic when he said here from the assembly booth that he regretted that we were not part of the Russian Federation or something like that. This does not exist and no republic of the Russian Federation does what is happening today in Serbia. We're here to discuss, wait, we've got 12 minutes of debate after 15 minutes and good-bye. How this agreement will change. Not at all. That's how it stands. The only day of judgment can change this agreement after your ratification, nothing else. That's what this country never let itself do. I'm not saying we should send a message saying we're going to eat roots away from that, and I'm not saying we're looking for oil and gas where it's not there, but a minimum of dignity and a minimum of respect for national interests. Yes, please, Russians, buy here as bought in Russia today. Pay the most and be the boss. They understand that language very well. Besides, it's just that language and they're talking. With every pressure we've been exposed to, she's asked the Russian embassy to discuss this agreement as a matter of priority, and I think they were right, there's no more important document than the one we've been talking about in the last few months. This is a direct negation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that we signed, because that mentality we tried yesterday to define here in parliament, that mentality, that doesn't exist in what we're talking about today. We're talking about the pipeline. At least 10 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year is the permeable power of that pipeline. How can we influence the path of that pipeline, of making that pipeline, of anything in that pipeline? We've given up mandatory committees. What country has given up on us? None. We've excluded the agreement in an absolutely incredible way. We mentioned everything we need to talk about. What is the quality of oil to be offered to this country? I'm talking about environmental standards. You know very well that none of this has anything to do with it. You know very well that oil of the worst quality has been spent here so far. For two reasons, because our oil processing facilities are musical exhibits, and because we always buy the most invaluable oil, because we don't have the money for anything more. Let's say where the agreement lays down the obligations of future owners of Gazprom, to respect existing environmental standards in Serbia's legislation. If we've been poisoning Pancheva today, because there's nothing better we can do, so let's at least go through this energy deal to protect the lives of these people. There is no such thing, but there is a guarantee that no valid requirements regarding the quality of the products of the processing and oil produced will be tightened. People will still be poisoned. It is devastating that when signing this agreement, signatories bypass what must not be bypassed. These are the sacred rules of business. You know them very well, Mr. Djelic. Do we have the right to have a Banatian court? We don't. Do we have the right to deposit our strategic gas reserves in the Banatski Palace? We don't. Do we have a chance to build a new Banatian court somewhere else? We don't, because it's a natural treasure, it's a gift of nature. The Banatian court is the natural gas tank, one of the largest in this part of Europe. We give it up without any compensation. How is the price of the Banatian Court determined? Where will our strategic reserve be? Yesterday we adopted a Stabilisation Association Agreement. One of the essential energy security standards of EU Member States is that which obliges Member States to hold 30% of their annual consumption at any time in the reserve. Where are we gonna keep it? Is there anything you can say that will cause a reaction and allow this to change? You were not involved in this agreement, you were the vice president of the group. There is no unity in your government about this. Representatives of the members of your government have no word of approval for what is happening, except for the finding that they have nothing left, since some other parties will vote for this agreement. Can we get answers to those few simple questions? One of you government officials should give it to us. How is the price of 400 million for NIS determined? Maybe it's too big too, we're telling us how you got to 400 million, how is that price determined? As estimated to be 500 million investments, this is enough compensation for NIS underestimation. We sold the department stores for 350 million, not the state, but the private. We sold the genex for $120 million. NIS, with the whole market, with oil sources, with gas sources, with built infrastructure, for 400 million. How did we get to that? Can parliament get an answer to that question and then we'll say - thank you, we didn't know, we're incompetent, we'll resign as MPs, because we've made such a huge failure and we haven't seen the way you've come to the price of 400 million. Just tell us who determined 400 million as NIS, 51%, actually 100 percent, because in no way will this country be able to affect the company's work anymore. Come out and explain here. Since you didn't say that, Mr. Skundrich, I may be wrong, but you have to come out here and say that's not true. NIS is worth exactly 400m euros. What's going on with this country's mines? How much is the mine's rent, why does Serbia deal with the existing situation? We'll never be able to change that again. Why are we trading the state monopoly of Serbian companies for the state monopoly of the Russian company? What does this country get? That we have some problem in oil and gas supply, and that it's not exclusively due to our material impotence, that we pay as much oil and gas as it costs, and then it's okay, but in the future this country will have as much oil and gas as there's money in our pockets. No one will give us anything. You know very well how cruel the principle on which such large countries function and such large systems as the system from which Gazprom comes, how ruthless it is, so much that it is feared by the whole of Europe. Because of what they bombed us today, Russia is being rebuked and developed with it in accordance with its interests. Then let's hear it here. Let it come out and let it be said - this country cannot survive without such a form of support from the Russian Federation, and we pay the price for that support by giving what we have, which is the oil industry of Serbia. Then it's fair, so we'll be responsible for both decisions. But don't give us this under economic success, one or the other or the third government. This is nonsense. As early as 2005, the state adopted a strategy for its economic reason, in 2005, the state hired Mary Lynch and Raiffeisen. They established and assessed the value of NIS at that time, taking into account a whole set of parameters, among other things, the price of oil that was then significantly lower than the price at this point. They said the oil industry of Serbia is worth a billion and 200 million. And they said, what the state agreed to, that no state should give up the majority package in the privatisation process. That's what we did, referring to examples of countries that previously signed energy agreements with the Russian Federation. Come on, tell us, Mr. Djelic, who is the country that signed the treaty with the Russian Federation and gave the gold action to the Russian Federation. Did Bulgaria, did Greece, the countries that have put their signature on the arrangement in the last six months? None but Serbia. There are no acceptable reasons to support this request by the Government because of the way this energy agreement occurred, because of the character of the energy agreement and because of the consequences resulting from such an energy agreement. The way is criminal, exclusively politically motivated by the need of a government to find in Russia that power itself does not have to defend itself in a failed policy and, I would say, with petty pre-election interests. This is not in line with the law because the very clear law lays down the procedure under which privatisation is carried out in this country. The character of this agreement is criminal because it endangers all vital interests of our society, we can talk about it for days. The consequences; e, they are very predictable and, in our opinion, shameful. We've done this because of those citizens we're going to ask in the next election to support the formation of that government and the policy that, before it does something like this, we're going to talk to all the participants of political life, we're going to overcome those party differences that are so expressed and make sure that we're the same when we're standing in line for gas, that we're the same when we freeze in flats without gas and that we pay this agreement to the future of our children. We do not agree to this, and with a strong commitment to the citizens of Serbia, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1940	Thank you. In order to inform the public and you, I would like you to know that from 10.05 to 10.52 in the part of the autonomous province of Vojvodina, electricity went out. RTS normally passed the entire session thanks to the aggregates, but one number of cable emitters did not transfer the session of the National Assembly. The word came first from Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no question whether the MPs of the SRS will vote for this law or not. We'll vote for the law. There can be a lot of objections in the way we came to this contract, but it seems to me that it has passed both in the presidential and parliamentary elections. Anyone who, three days before the elections, provides himself with a record of a meeting with the president of the Russian Federation and the signing of a contract that may rightly be marked by the treaty of the century can count on winning the elections. This contract was made by the same people who sold cements, and Sartid, and the Central Committee and Sugars for the euro, so the principle is the same, I don't see any reason that changing the position in the government can be a change to that extent that you start attacking yourself for what you did a few years ago. We didn't participate in any privatisation. Since 2000, we have suffered terrible criticisms because we have warned you that without the Russian Federation of Serbia there is no survival and therefore we have been declared to be people of the 19th century, of any kind, for those who do not know the importance of European integration. Europe, the European Union, co-operation with Europe is set as a postulate. No one else's biobital to DOS. It wasn't important to cooperate with anyone. Europe has made this a condition, and Europe has been wide open to the Russian Federation. For eight years, you have in your hands an agreement with the Russian Federation on almost duty-free exports of almost all goods from Serbia, and you have not tried to move your finger to realize it. Then it came to the fact that we pay the most expensive gas flow in Hungary. Then it came down to us to worry about what would happen to us in five or ten years, because we're not so powerful as to be just consumers. It came down to Russia saying the other day that it's not at all a problem if it's not a member of the World Trade Organisation, with the right to declare - we're not going to give oil and gas anymore, and we're going to import TVs from you, now we're going to sell oil and gas, and we're going to make TVs. That's where we're supposed to meet. I wish, at least some of you, had looked at the accession agreement in such a studio way, in detail. Well, he can find a lot more trouble. There can be much more unfavor for Serbia, for our poor man, for our peasant, who will suddenly have to deal equally with the Dutch peasant. Let's see if we can handle it. But the government didn't even bother favoring this agreement. All of you were running away from the public of Serbia finding out how important it is to ratify this agreement. The government is constantly celebrating agreements with the European Union, I think it's glorific, but you're going to say, rightly, there's no investment, no survival, no development, no progress if we're not a member of the European Union. Why didn't you invest so much energy, Mr. Ministers and Prime Minister, Prime Minister of the State, to bring the citizens of Serbia closer to the Russian Federation, relations with it, especially economic and financial relations? Why didn't you ever let any Russian banks into our market until a few months ago? Why did the euro or the dollar of the Russian Federation never mean how much to you from the European Union? Why wasn't Russia ever here a partner to be honest and serious? Now that it has become clear that we have to rely on the Russian Federation, now shyly, suffering criticism that you do not want to answer, because you would have to say how important the relationship with the Russian Federation is, more important than the European Union. The European Union cannot stand without the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation can survive without the European Union and you know it very well. We're supposed to have both partners now, but it's all about who's more important to us. It's not just a fight for Kosovo and Metohija, but it's very important. You're spreading the story in public - the Russians will betray us, you're not saying we were attacked by Americans and the European Union, but they're not going to defend us by the Russians. And what should we be defended by the EU's respect for the UN Charter? Which we would need anyone's protection at all, if America hadn't bombed us, which we would need Russia to defend us from this bombing. That's when it's horrible to Russia for not raising some plane to defend us. Yeah, he's going to go to war, because of a Serbia that didn't even know what he wanted. Every deal with the big ones has shortages and disadvantages. In ancient Serbia, two centuries ago, they married beautiful girls to rich old men. What else could she do? At least she had a crust of bread. Thank God, it's been a while, but when you're bonding to the big ones, you can't just get your ambitions and just satisfy your desires. I am prepared to make a more unfavourable agreement with the Russian Federation in the same terms than with the EU. This Russian Federation will not be a villain to the Serbian people. The EU has been a villain to the Serbian people. You've forgiven them for a few days. Serbian citizens have partially forgotten this, but are you sure that relations are finally at that level so that the EU does not again prove to be a villain? I'm not. You asked us to make a deal to make the angel kind. Here, you will vote this agreement, to see if the Jedi will be merciful to Serbia. But without any delay, we need to enter into economic and other types of relations with the Russian Federation, and these cruel monetaryists, who don't tie anything to Russia, and we Rusofili, who tie everything to Russia. And thank God Russia rose and showed America that it would defend its interest. And we're just here to put together practical, useful and good for us. On the one hand, you have the EU, to bring here its big manufacturers, on the other hand, the wide open Russian market, to place our goods on it from here. That's why we radicals agreed to do it together. We asked you to make a Russian arrangement before, at an emergency session, you didn't accept. But, well, this seems to me to be a symbolic, historical symbolic session, on the two most important sides of the world we're meeting. Is there anything better? Don't do too much research, if you like someone more than the other one, what's wrong with the other one. It's no good in any of the other agreements, all of it. Both are Serbia's surrenders, or the EU's acceptance of the conditions will be Serbia's defence, that under their conditions we have both production and market and all living. You'll see how hard this is gonna go. The Russian Federation needs Serbia as it is and needs to make further use of it. I agree here, but since we haven't affected the negotiations, neither the number nor the relationship, nor anything, we have to say, "Take it or leave it." Well, the time has come for the Russian Federation to talk to on principle -- take what the Russian Federation has to offer, because it has to do with someone else. Remember, it is not the only alternative for Russia to sell even more gas to Western Europe. I consider that a gift from Serbia. I count on all future annual incomes and all future security. That pipeline's gonna defend someone from now on. All the future security Serbia provides itself, both energy and other species, and I am proud of that. You have roughly interpreted my words about how unfortunately we are not Russian Governor, but I am proud that one year after that you do not whistle when I tell you how important it is to work together with the Russian Federation, how important it is that President Putin's policies continue to be passed on to President Medvedev's future presidents. I wish Serbia had finally chosen one such president who would care as much about Serbia as the Russian presidents care about the Russian Federation and Serbia would flower roses. That's why I welcome this agreement. We will vote for him more proudly than ever. Our policy of co-operation with the Russian Federation today or the day of verification finally gets its full confirmation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1942	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nenad Prokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1943	Dear colleagues, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure because it's re-integrating some false emotion in this debate. The world is divided into cruel monetaryists and some Orthodox brothers, and these Orthodox brothers are at this moment the most brutal monetaryists in the world, as is seen from this contract that we sign with them. So it's not good to have these discussions again. It is not clear to me how someone whose heart has grown so much for Serbia's sovereignty can make it so easy to give part of Serbia's sovereignty to another sovereign state. It's never been done by her so-called. A pro-Western political structure in Serbia. She's never given anyone sovereignty the same way as she's doing right now. The consequences here will be terrible. We need to maintain the level that maintained all other countries during this agreement. We can't so much support our national wealth, our national sovereignty, something that will affect every single person's life in this country for the next 30 years. I ask you to think carefully about what we are going to do here today and not talk to emotions, not to divide the world into good and bad, but to calculate well all the consequences that will come from this conversation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1944	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1945	First of all, I always talk to emotions. I guess when I don't have emotion there's no reason to live at all. When I spoke of cruel monetaryists, I pointed to Mr. Djelic, I meant these in the government, Dinkic, Djelic. I didn't share the world with cruel monetaryists at all because it wasn't my goal. My goal was to mark people in the government, who have been calling Serbia's waters since 2000 so that they don't care about the poor, care only as monetaryists about some higher interests, but they also realized how important it is. However, did I hand it over to the tobacco mafia the tobacco market, the strongest of which Serbia can live, or your so-called. The pro-Western, what do you call it, who never taught sovereignty? When did the tobacco market and all the tobacco factories go into the hands of the tobacco mob? When did the cements leave? When Sartide left. When did the Central Committee building go for the money that a man paid off by selling only two floors after that? When did the sugars go to the euro? When are the Serbian banks closed? Is that a lost part of sovereignty? Yes, it is. Is that supposed to come back slowly now? You should. How? With help and Western Europe, with the help of the Russian Federation. We'll soon see China represented here stronger than ever, India too. Don't sweat it. It's expansion countries. Why did you sell them Sartide so cheap? Why did the Americans enter Sartide? You know, for another 10 years, all the world's steel production goes to China and India, no matter how much production they produce, they'll go there. Secured production. The state wrote off the debts. Did I write off debts to the Americans for Sartide or you who care about the sovereignty of the state? In these eight years, I've watched everything and listened, but to mark cooperation with the Russian Federation as a loss of sovereignty, so it can't go away. If it weren't for the Russian Federation, not only would we not talk about Kosovo and Metohija anymore, I am convinced that we would no longer talk about any other parts of Serbia. It was supposed to stop then and tell the Americans - you don't have our voice for independence of Kosovo and Metohija in the Security Council. You don't appreciate it, I appreciate it. You cannot assess the value of the US recognition of Kosovo's independence, but I can assess the value of Russia's non-recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. If we're going to measure it like that, here we are and in that we're different, and it's good that we're different. Without this arrangement of Serbia in a few years, there will be no more, or we will argue like this in the Assembly that we have good wages, and there will be no more work for the people, no more bread, no more games, and you know that too. So when I can swallow that I don't attack the Stabilisation Agreement, which is why my peasants call me today from Bajcetina and ask when we're going to roast the brandy again, you might as well swallow something as to see that most of Serbia's citizens will be better off than some agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1946	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1947	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, since I think Mr. Nikolic misread me. In fact, criticising an existing energy agreement with the Russian Federation is not at the same time denying the idea that we should develop co-operation in the field of energy or in any other segment of our economy and economy with the Russian Federation. You mention these examples, but it's political juggling. In which tender was offered NIS as offered in the international tender by the tobacco industry Nis or the tobacco industry Vranje? You're talking about Sartide as a case. That company was in bankruptcy, failed. You're talking about sugars. Here in Belgrade sugar cane, take it, you'll get paid by people, they'll give you money to take it and hire them. There she was in Zrenjanin, there she was with the Sugar Man, in 2003 she was in bankruptcy for nine years. When you speak English, you cannot translate it. No one denies the idea of developing energy co-operation with the Russian Federation, but where is the social programme in this agreement? Getting NIS in last year is almost 300 million, profit is lower because big losses, but the Russians won't fund it. They'll behave in NIS the way they behave in Gazprom. In Gazprom, they take care of their interests. Where's the social program? Mr. Djelic and Mr. Skundric, what about the workers who are technologically surplus? Will that be solved like in the flag? When you contract with Fiat, that's defined. In this contract, it's not defined. You say that in the debate here, it'll be somewhere else, so then we can take your word for it, but we want it to be in this contract. We want an answer to the question, I agree with Mr Nikolic, you will get an answer to the question why for three euros. No one's offered four. Did anyone in this country show up who said--I offered four. We're talking cements, they bought the strongest European companies, again in the tenders. We're talking about Russian banks. I agree that there is a need to liberalise the banking market in the country, which I agree with. Now the Russian banks have entered, let them enter corporate capital, there's no problem, but we want it done here the way it's done in Russia. We want Serbia and Russia to sign contracts signed by Greece with Russia, Bulgaria with Russia. I'm talking about character, not amount, not value, but character. We want a partnership with Russia. We want that relationship that Milosevic had in 1997 with the Italians and the Greeks when he sold Telekom. We want a gold strike for this country. Russia wasn't always a mother to us, it used to be a stepmom and it used to play with our interests. If their resolution in the Security Council is not worth this agreement, let the President of the Republic come out and say so. This is devastating that opposition party representatives participate in the debate, come out with the facts of government representatives, why this is in Serbia's economic interest, not that Mr Popovic, who, along with Mihajl, sat across from all of Gazprom and made deals. If you knew, Mr. Popovic, what you're doing, the Russians would hire you on your side, as Fresh End Fils and the Americans hired, be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1948	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Velimir Ilic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a very serious agreement on the agenda that means life for Serbia for the next 100 years. However, we are very irresponsible. Now we start some of our stories when there's something, as we think we're going to get some petty political points. I wouldn't want to go in now and start dealing with what's when, what's sold, who's who. I think that sometimes someone will account for this parliament, and if there is any possibility that someone might consider that there are irregularities there to be some kind of polling committee of parliament that should be reconsidered. As former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I know that the Sartide contract was missing, it was stolen, it was empty, it was gone, and I never found it as a minister, because we had some contractual obligations to make part of the railroad, but they say by contract we should make it, and then they raise their hands and say, "You don't have to make it now, just don't ask for the contract anymore." What happened here, I don't know. I don't need to talk about the tobacco industry now, Japan Tobacco, Peconi, Peru, Zika, what's going on, and we're not wasting our time, because we have one serious job, and it's a gas deal with Russia. We treat a friendly country so irresponsiblely and want to make it perhaps an enemy. Why? We know that the Russians are in the gas industry and we can't treat them like that, we sign the contract, we go to the highest state level, and I was so happy to sign that contract in the Kremlin, I had the honor, and the government was unanimous, all the ministries gave consent, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Relations, that it was the contract of the century for Serbia. Now I don't understand, we enter after signing a contract into some story of ours, now we're looking for financial advisors, etc. How could someone who ran the Treasury give consent to come to the government if there were no procedures? So that someone who did this should answer for it. When it came to the government, when it was explained, when we talked to the Russians, when the decision was made to pass the highway pipeline through Serbia, when calculated, at least our services from the oil industry calculated that we have 200m euros from transit annually. That thousands of people would be hired. That it is planning the largest gas power plant in Southeast Europe in the vicinity of Nis, that it will remove the electricity deficit throughout Europe, Greece, etc. That this means for Serbia that it will be the largest gas reserves in this part of Europe in Serbia, that Serbia will own 49%. And when all this has been overcalculated and how much we need to invest, you know that our refineries have a problem, that our products don't go through Europe today, that we're importing certain gasoline, oil derivatives, we're not able to make them with our technology that's exceeded, that they're billions that need to be invested to make all of this fit, do it. Therefore, the agreement was reached and everything was unanimous. We met in Moscow with Russia's biggest state summit and listened to a speech by our Serbian President Boris Tadic, who praised the treaty and said there is no alternative to thinking if we want to energy Serbia for the next 100 years. The second thing, the Russians gave us a favourable signature in the second part, I hope very quickly, because in the electoral silence I had to sign, that was the deal, the second part where we're going to get the oil and gas supplies that are about 20%. So tax exemptions, because the Russian company enters Serbia and becomes co-owner of our company, so we'll have the cheapest energy in Europe. It means a lot to our citizens, to our economy, because we are going to go out with a number of products on European markets, much more favourable than other producers. And the important thing is that we're going to do it very quickly, and unfortunately, we're very relaxed, we've slowed down, we've politicized, we've negotiated, we've proven who's right now after the contract is signed. It happened similarly with the concession. We can't finish the job, sign it, and get into the debate whether it's okay, look for later financial advisers, politicize, confuse Serbian citizens with what our goal is. We play with Russia, a friendly country, a lot. That was the case... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in the privatisation of banks, there was a case where we got a full warrant, someone got a warrant to get kicked off the Serbian financial market. That wasn't right. Secondly, with the privatisation of JAT, with the construction of the Kargo Center, we've completely thrown the contracts out of the game and the Russians won't tolerate it anymore. We're very irresponsible and irresponsible because we've given some deadlines there in Moscow until there's gonna be ratification. Those deadlines are long gone. It shows some of our unseriousness in a very serious business. To keep us from politicizing, we have the most expensive gas. Why? We pay transit through Hungary, which is extremely expensive for us, unfavourable, we are on the tail of a large pipeline and every gas shortage in Europe is reflected in us. We pay the highest price. We don't have a secure supply of gas and our economy, especially in Vojvodina... (President: Speak for seven minutes)... Let's take the brick industry and the others, have big problems, can't plan production, have big winter delays, and we have a big problem with the economy and use of gas in Serbia. There's no way to get gas, to head south of Serbia. South Serbia expects gas, Leskovac, Vranje, the entire area, has no capacity for an existing pipeline. We can spread it, but it doesn't have the flow and we need to go in laterally... (President: Mr. Ilic, will you continue within your 20 minutes that you can use as the head of the parliamentary group? ) Please, as head of the NS parliamentary group, I will support this with both hands, because this is life for Serbia and there is no policy here. This is something we have to accept for us. I ask you to speed up these processes and bring all of this to an end and finish our work properly. That we do not create enemies from our Russian friends, that we do not play with their state summit, because, with the highest of our peaks in Serbia then agreed in Moscow, I was present at that meeting where the then prime minister and president of Serbia made promises, deadlines, we all agreed, and let us not now return to the beginning and start some of our internal debates. I know we want to be smart, there's a shortage here. In yesterday's debate, we didn't define what Serbia is, we didn't define in the agreement whether Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia or not, and that didn't bother us, and now we're messing with the Russians here, we're looking for every little thing. The NIS is demanding large investments and these investments must be provided. He's looking for orderly supplies, and that's the only way Russia can guarantee us. What if they close the tap? I'm merely stating an OMV example. How can he from the third hand guarantee our supply when these are the bosses? It's unserious and compare. I am glad that on this line and the Minister of Energy, Mr. Skundric, to support, I am glad that this government is behind this project that needs to be done, no matter what. We can change governments, but strategy and strategic matters must remain the national interest of this country. This is one question that we must resolve and resolve together, and we must not get into any of the problems of this matter. New Serbia and I hope a large part of the opposition and a large part of the MPs will support this, as strategically important for the country, for our economy, for our development, for the future, because if there goes the highway pipeline, we can never pull it down again. I'm glad that the route is determined, that the route is largely followed by the Nis-Dimitrovgrad highway, and that's good and will cost the construction itself. We defined, and the urbanists were working on it, and with Russia, we had mixed commissions, we did a technical part of the job, and the works will be able to begin very quickly. Therefore, let us support this agreement, it is extremely important and important for Serbia and let us not politicise everything. This is something politics doesn't have, this is for Serbia to be or not to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1950	According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mr Nenad Popovic and then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1951	I have to replicate what Mr. Jovanovic was saying. It is not a problem for Mr Jovanovic and his associates in what the price for NIS is, the problem is who pays us that price, with whom we sign the contract. The only problem is we're signing it with the Russians. If we were to sign it with someone else, there wouldn't be a problem. We all know there are several lobbies working against this best economic arrangement Serbia has signed in the last 40 years. We have an economic lobby here in the area. These are two large oil companies from our EU environment, which practically have a monopoly on our market. These companies don't have their own oil, they're oil dealers and they have a legitimate right to lobby for their own interests. But as MPs, we, the government of the Republic of Serbia, must exclusively protect Serbian national and economic interests, not the interests of some countries in the environment, not the interests of some oil lobbys in the environment. There are political lobbies that work every day to bring this agreement down. These political lobbies, it is certain, want to prevent Gazprom from entering Serbia, want to prevent any Russian influence, even economically, completely legitimate everywhere in the world, in Serbia. These two lobbies today over certain faces want to break it. But I must confess to the last government, I am proud of it, as Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica led it. I must give recognition to both this government and today's representatives here, Mr Djelic and Skundric, although they are heavily exposed to these pressures, they still support this agreement and I hope that the vast majority, more than 220 MPs, will support this best economic agreement. To answer immediately, the DSS will certainly vote in favour of this agreement, but just to say, three complete lies have been made, Mr Jovanovic said. First, he mentioned to me that I was involved. Unfortunately, I have not participated in any single meeting on this agreement. If I'd been involved, I'd probably have made such a good deal even better. Secondly, you told the truth that NIS had a profit of 300m euros. I would like to inform you that the NIS 2007 ended with about 100m euros in profits. Third, you've told the truth that this is an ecologically bad arrangement. Recently, a colleague of yours from your parliamentary group has been highly educated and highly trained, but he has said several false information that this oil is of very poor quality. I need to inform you that all European refineries want that oil. All of Europe is working on this oil. This is what Shel, OMV, MOL, all European companies are working on. In Romania, Bulgaria, Italy, Austria, Hungary, England, it is on the stock exchange as an Ural quotation. She's not Ural, she's listed as Ural quotation. It is the best, Mr. Jovanovic, the best European quality. The sulphur is there, since it was false, the sulphur is the usual value up to 1.4%. With the pipeline, this oil goes to Western Europe and everyone uses it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1952	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovanovic, Natasa Micic, Aleksandra Jerkov, and Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1953	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at the shortest I would like to refer only to what Mr. Ilic said and ask you not to allow the insult of the MPs. Since you, Mr Popovic, and people like you from the DSS have defended Serbia's interests, this country has not been in a worse position. First, go out and tell me what you did as head of the economic team of the Kosovo and Metohija Coordination Centre, ended up in Moscow, in parliament, your boss is in Rome, and the poor are left in Kosovo and in exile centres. These are the results of your work. Secondly, when you interpret, you do it exactly. I was very precise. I said that our industry is a processing part of history, that our capacities are such that we need modernization of refineries, that none of this exists in this agreement. And how you and Michael participated. You spent more in Moscow in January than in Belgrade, and you appear at all as a representative of this issue if you did not participate. You know very well what I'm talking about. You're here now honoring patriotism, talking about some lobbies. What oil lobby? Go ahead and tell me which oil lobby. You're responsible for that. Political lobby. From whom we can buy oil and gas, except from Russia, from who else. Who's got the oil sites? What does that have to do with what we're talking about? We just want to cooperate with this country in the same way that all other countries cooperate. Mr. Ilic told us here that there was another agreement that was to be signed in electoral silence, so it wasn't signed in electoral silence, can we see that agreement, so maybe we would vote for what the government is proposing to parliament here, but there is no agreement. Mr. Ilic, in article 1, there's no sign of a gas power plant that's going to be making a pair of Nis. It doesn't exist. Then when we read, it says - Article 17, that this agreement can be amended with the written consent of both sides, so in the last sentence in the case of differences in interpretation of the provisions of this agreement, the text in Russian will be moderate. There's no mention of Nis in Russian either. You say we pay a high price. Why don't you tell me why we're paying a high price? Because we're not buying from a direct producer, we're buying from a broker who collects 5%. Someone would call it a racket, others call it a business, but we pay 5% more expensive oil and gas coming from Russia, because we buy it through an intermediary of a Russian company, not directly from a manufacturer. Where is the guarantee in this agreement that this will change? You said it would be 20% cheaper because you wouldn't pay taxes. That tax goes into the budget, spilling from hollow to empty. That's what we're talking about, what nonsense and nonsense, one lobby, another lobby, third lobby. We are for an agreement with the Russian Federation. Yes, we have no problem, we want to buy oil and gas from Russia, but we don't want to do it like you did. In 2005, your government said there was no majority privatisation of NIS. That same government said after a year -- here's the Russians, take it, don't ask for the price. That's what happened. As you didn't know, Mr Popovic, what you do when you call elections, what you do when you lie to Serbia about various declarations, what you do when you choose coalition partners, so you didn't even know what you were doing on January 25th when you signed an agreement with Putin and Medvedev in the Kremlin. They knew and they worked in the interest of their country. After eight years, you see your political balance as a party, and you personally look at the economic opportunities of KIM. That's what you did. Since your score is this big, shut up, sit back and listen to what they have to say about those who spoke before you. Ministers, vice-president, the competent minister who signed and have the government send here a proposal for the agreement. If that's what you said, Mr. Ilic, in the agreement and we will vote for him, but let the government here send a comprehensive agreement. What we see in front of us is the devastating, favoring one side, directly endangering those national interests that remain after the destruction of the country in the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1954	National MP Mrs. Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Article 104 concerning the dignity of the National Assembly, and this whole agreement is against the dignity of the country. I also want to replicate Mr Popovic and Ilic. You're saying this is a historic agreement. The only thing that's true is that this is a historic bad deal, the only thing guaranteed to our country is that we will suffer the adverse consequences for the next 30 years. Mr Djelic says this agreement is generally good and that individual solutions are bad. How can it be a generally good agreement when we are the only country that allows Russia's monopoly 51% and how did the Bulgarians conclude a far more favourable contract with the Russian Federation than we did? It is more favourable in terms of the majority role of the gas arrangement, because Bulgarians have concluded a 50:50-50 contract, and we have given exclusive rights and we are the only country that has given exclusive rights to one supplier, and that is the Russian Federation. Secondly, the only benefits of this agreement can be transit fees through our country. Then why have we concluded such an agreement offering Serbia a flow of only 10 billion cubic metres of gas flow, and Bulgaria has concluded a 30 billion contract, which effectively increases the value of taxis for transit. Mr Velja Ilic is proud to have signed this agreement, of course, it is nice that you signed it, but it is known that Kostunica and Tadic stand behind it, and it is quite clear, but you have in some way a personal reason to have the satisfaction of signing this agreement, because if you remember, and it has been done by the parliamentary majority and the media, they have so condemned and criticised you for one innocent in relation to this harmful consequence of the violation of the law, it is a violation of the Public Procurement Act when you imported second-hand Swedish locomotives. It's incomparably minor damage, and you've been exposed to criticism. Today it's really amazing and unacceptable that because it's the Russians we don't have a clue against and we're just saying that we're not now in a situation where we don't have gas and oil, so we have to be forced or threatened to conclude such a harmful agreement. Mr Popovic says this is the most economically beneficial contract that has been concluded in Serbia and privatisation. So as you comment that only one, or third of three mobile operators, is a VIP, 320 billion invested in license rights alone, to just enter the market, and here is talking about the price reached at 400m euros for the whole NIS. And we know what the NIS value is. It's estimated at 2.2 billion. Why didn't we conclude with the Russian Federation a concession agreement on the use of natural wealth, but we gave it to them so generously and kindly. So, this is only unfortunately the continuity of Kostunica's policy agreed by Tadic and LDP, no one can vote for such a harmful agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1956	The word is Miss Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1957	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, given that Mr Ilic is of course a member of 104 - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Ilic, you're talking about contracts, about how some contracts have disappeared. Indeed, do not insult the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of us sitting here, we all know that this is what happens when you sign contracts and how it ends for the citizens of Serbia, especially for the citizens of Vojvodina. You were talking about us against this agreement, against the agreement with Russia. No, the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is not against an agreement with Russia. Of course, against an agreement with Russia under these conditions, concluded without a tender, with disregard for the country's privatisation laws, disrespect for Serbia's ecological legislation, allowing another state in the territory of a sovereign state such as the Republic of Serbia to establish a monopoly without the ability to control our oil reserves, at a price which is several times below the market price at which the oil industry of Serbia has been assessed. Just a few months before the legal deadline for the return of AP Vojvodina's assets, and it is known that 90% of Serbia's oil industry was owned by the AP Vojvodina, without any consultation with the citizens, either with the representative bodies of the AP Vojvodina, so under these conditions, of course, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina is not prepared to support the conclusion of such a contract. You said something like - we can't treat Russia like that. What, we cannot insist that the Republic of Serbia respects its laws, or can we not insist on respecting its constitution or having dignity? The President of the Republic and you gave some deadlines to Russia that we have now broken. What deadlines? Why aren't they in the agreement? Why do the people of the Republic of Serbia not know anything about this? You warn us here, threaten us not to play with the state summit of Russia. What does that mean? Do we need to give up everything this country makes of land to please the state summit of Russia? It's not even more gubert, it's not even a colonial relationship, it's a vassality, and anyone who says to themselves that the Serbian patriot can't agree. All right, Russia is a great force, but if it is a great force, let it show it by giving Serbia the most favourable conditions, by offering the most money for the oil industry of Serbia and by winning the tender and legally reaching these benefits that are now being granted to it. You're accusing us here of barging, quoting, gambling, and we're looking for every little thing in this agreement. It's not a delay, Mr. Ilic, that someone insists that the laws of this country be respected. For those of you who think it's okay to steal, maybe it's for you. What are our friends, Mr. Ilic, who don't respect us, who humiliate us, who don't respect our laws and the Constitution, what are these friends who want their country to establish a monopoly on our country's territory? What kind of friends are they if they don't offer a social program? What kind of friends are they if they don't offer an environmental program? What kind of friends are they if they offer 400m euros for something estimated at 1.4 billion euros? What kind of friends sign an agreement with us that doesn't have any value and isn't appropriate? What kind of friends put pressure on this institution, which put pressure on the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to leave everything else just to get their agreement on the agenda as soon as possible? What kind of statesmen agree to something like that? What does that say about those who agree? The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will support this government in all its activities leading to EU accession. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will never support this government if it robs Vojvodina. What's happening now is a robbery of the Vojvodina, another one in a row. I will now address the MPs of the DS, who declare themselves to be the autonomy of the Vojvodina. You can't make a declaration about it without every single piece of your work saying otherwise. I thought that the support that President Tadic received from the citizens of Vojvodina in the presidential elections, that the support provided by the List for the European Vojvodina, whose backbone was made by the DS, would make you a new kind of commitment. That this kind of obligation will be made to at least once, but at least once put the interests of the people of Vojvodina ahead of the party headquarters in Belgrade. Unfortunately, that's not the case now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1958	Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1959	Ladies and gentlemen, I was provoked by what Mr. Nebojsa Popovic said. Mr. Popovic, I'll speak extremely well-meaningly. I don't know any energy lobbys. I know the energy lobby was close to the top of the former government. I know I've raised my voice against that lobby and when it comes to Syrian oil and Russian gas and Czech debt. I spoke exclusively here according to my beliefs and believe in the interests of Serbia and its citizens because this agreement is harmful to Serbia. It has nothing to do with what's on the other side of Russia. I don't even challenge Russia's right to seek out its best terms, but when these agreements are in question, then we can only be handled by economic and financial interests, not by any national interests, especially by marketing and no personal material interests. So we didn't mention that it bothers us that it was Russia, which gave asylum to Miri and Mark, at a time when the former minister of justice was in Moscow to establish a protocol on the co-operation of two justice ministries. We have not protested this agreement nor because Russian television is Satanizing late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. We did not protest that the gas winter was more expensive for us than for citizens for both Bulgaria and Romania. No, just because we don't see financial interest in Serbia here. I said already, Diloit estimated the value of NIS to 2 billion and 200 million euros. So why didn't the previous government hire Diloit before the agreement was concluded to assess NIS, so to say, gentlemen from Russia, NIS costs 51% billion and 100 million? So it doesn't matter what's on the other side of Russia. We also protested that famous concession of the Horgos-Pozega highway, and for the privatisation of Knjaz Milos, and for privatising Bor, and for buying locomotives and wagons across the boutiques, and there was no Russia, and we will protest whenever Serbia's economic interests are threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1960	Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1961	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. Mr. Ilic, you were in the past government minister, you signed this, although someone else should have signed it. I have to tell you that here are the national interests in this agreement, but this is the biggest sale of national interests, and this is embarrassing, and I'm sure one day all those ministers who sat in that government will answer for it, those who were struggling to sign this agreement. What's the big deal? You gave it to the Russians, you called it sales. That's what you can sell your houses or beaches where you were going to build hospitals. Mr. Kostunica could have sold his house in Belanovica, but that's not how NIS is sold, he has to go to tender. For 400 million. A moment ago, the head of the LDP parliamentary group asked how you got to that value. This value is determined on the basis of the book value, but this has nothing to do with the market value of NIS. I'm going to say a lot about this topic and about the middleman who was introduced in 2006 and who he introduced, so I'm going to ask Mr. Djelic what happened to the Russian debt that was supposed to be ratified, or the write-off that you announced here with the fanfare two years ago, that you did a big job. I have to say something because of citizens who certainly don't know this, when NIS is founded its value, i.e. the founding stake is worth 993 million 77,000 euros. It became a stock company in 2005, at which point the value of the shares was 10,000 dinars, i.e. since the euro was 80 dinars, there was some value of 125 euros. That was the value of the action. What did the Ministers do with this agreement with the Russians? The value of the action, since the Russians are the owners of 51% and have paid 400 million, is according to them the value of 784m euros in NIS. They've put down, gentlemen of the PUPS, listen to this, value at 99 euros. What did we do when Mr Dinkic asked Deloitte for an assessment, what did we come up with? It's worth 2.2 billion. According to them, that's when the stock costs 315m euros. What's gonna happen the moment the citizens are supposed to get NIS action? On the site, where the data is valid, it says that 15% of the citizens will receive this action. It's official data. The value of these actions will then be 24 euros. That's all official data. Citizens, where else will you get 974 euros promised by Mr Dinkic in the election campaign? In what way, in which privatisations? Gentlemen, this isn't privatisation, this is tattooation. You're the state-owned firm of the Republic of Serbia sold, donated whatever you want to call it, to the Russian state-owned firm. Who owns Gazprom? The Russian government. So you gave then to the future Prime Minister, Mr. Putin. For what? For Kosovo. Come out once, so say it, that's the key part. As for the brokers in this sale, or in our gas purchase, it's the Jugorosgas firm, I've already talked about it. The Jugorosgas company takes 5% of the traffic, i.e. the entry of gas into our country. So their only job is to charge that commission. The commission is 35m euros a year. The firm was introduced by Minister Mladjan Dinkic, gentlemen from G17 plus, in 2006. For what? Who's taking that money? What did we need a mediator for? In 2001, the government of Zoran Djindjic abolished the mediator. Then Progress Gas Trading took 0.2%, now takes 5%. The contract has been signed in the long term. Who's taking that money? Do you know what it is for 10 years, what millions of euros it is? Mrs. Suzana Grubjesic, seeing as you are nodding, then you will explain to me who Milos Milankovic, who was his role in Serbia in 2006, so you will probably know that this same gentleman received an annual award at the 10,000-euro anniversary of Jugorosgas, that this same gentleman set himself as the representative of Serbia's gas at Jugorosgas. What kind of conflicts of interest are these? Who gets that money? You will explain to us why Mr. Mladjan Dinkic asked Deloitte for an assessment, so you will explain why he gave up on canceling this agreement. There are so many questions we need to talk about. Mr. Popovic, you mentioned Ural Oil.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1962	Time, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1963	I know it's been five minutes, but you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, have been allowing MPs to speak 12, 13 minutes in the Rules of Procedure these days. Let me finish. Mr. Popovic, the so-called Ural Oil, has the highest rate of sulfur. Mr. Jovanovic said so precisely that we do not have plants that can process that oil without having to cause terrible environmental pollution. In an agreement that you supported, and Mr. Ilic signed, there is not a single word about protecting the environment. Ask now Minister Dulic how much money it will take to protect the environment in the coming years. It will all be paid by the Republic of Serbia. So don't defend this agreement, please. This is embarrassing, this is the biggest sale of Serbia's national interests, the interest of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1964	The word is Mr. Dusan Bajatovic. I would also like to inform you that the Finance Committee will have meetings at 13.00 hours in the press room and ask the members of the Committee to attend the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1965	Thank you, Madam President. I've called the Rules of Procedure. Get someone in power to speak to the Rules of Procedure. I know this is the cheapest commercial, but I don't have time anymore. I'm going to try a little bit, just like you, to posemise, I was going to talk a little bit wider, but I'm going to try to work things out with some arguments here. Yes, Russia today is a force and capitalist country. What are we talking about, what kind of brotherhood and unity? I think the Deputy Prime Minister was very clear. Do we have any other Nabucco tube, or what goes to Germany, and will pass through Serbia? We don't. We can only talk about this arrangement. The first question is whether we want it or not. Will Russia protect its interests? Of course he will. Is there a political arrangement with Russia in this? Yes, he does, and he's not only motivated by KIM. I'm just gonna try some things to get into the story. First, let me just show you a few things you may not know. I'm getting ready for some functions, which I'm glad to tell you. So, what's the point? It's not true that Banatski dvor is the largest gas capacity. For example, there's a bed in Mokrin that's been under pressure for 40 years, there's been the largest gas exploitation in the former Yugoslavia, for example, which can now store five times as much as the Banatical Court. When it comes to national sovereignty, don't you think this much debt to Western, not countries, but to funds and companies is also a threat to national sovereignty? I'm for the competition of capital. With this arrangement comes Russian capital, and I hope that here, along with the gas arrangement, we will see some Kraup, and Deutsche Bank, and City Bank and two Russian banks, and there will be no more oligo-lasit Austrian capital, whose lobbyists exist here, but will be relaxed. Is the problem with OMV, INI and let's say MOL that the Russians here will raise production from 4 million tonnes to 12 million tons and that Serbia will have a producer? Yeah, he did, because he's gonna strangle them. Who does that hurt? For Serbian intermediaries, because the Russians don't allow intermediaries in the business. Who's it useful to? To the state of Serbia. Yeah, there won't be any more of those who took 5%, because there's no one left to go to. Furthermore, will it be with this gas arrangement that the respected Professor Skundric mentioned, that Serbia becomes an exporter of energy? Yeah. Is that how we're gonna, say, cut the deficit? Yeah. So it's not just a political approach. If we export electricity, we'll cut the trade deficit. If we cut taxes to Russian companies, we will keep an arrangement with Russia and if it is 20% less, as Velimir Ilic said, maybe our economy, which is not qualified to compete on the Russian market, because they are competing there now, maybe with that 20% we will be in competition that our agricultural products, which we have also exposed to one competition that they cannot withstand, perhaps still sell in Moscow, and the whole of Serbia cannot produce food as much as Moscow needs. To be clear, I'm not a rusophile, but I'm afraid this is where the stories go wrong. Breaking up the opposition's representatives, here we are now involving ourselves in power. So here we have to be clear in front of the citizens of Serbia. What are we doing? Between what we choose. We're talking about some lousy 1,000 euros here. It's just that it can be 1,000 euros, and it can't, not even four billion for NIS, not even two billion for Telekom. What's the point? What's the best social program? Well, work. And how will work come? Well, a non-selective inflow of investments. We in India know that, Professor. Skundric, we cannot build a third trafo station because two are funded by the European Development Bank's funds, so-called. 110. We can't attach two factories because we don't have electricity. And we gave people permission, two worldwide companies, to build. To include several significant capacities, we would have to cut the electricity to the population. Do we need those two power plants, one in New Sad, one in Nis gas? If these build us that political corridor 4 and it won't pay toll and customs, like what goes through Serbia, who's going to go to that Corridor 10? It won't pay us to end it that way either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1966	Time. Would you like to extend?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1967	Two or three more minutes. What do I mean? We need to take care of the economic dimension and the speed to which we can come to the realization of some projects. Currently, according to the EPS, we need nearly 5 billion greenfields in the electricity sector urgently, 4.5 billion demands reconstruction of the so-called. Soviet technology. For a gas deal with these power plants, it's nearly 5 billion. Put that together, that's 15 billion in the next four years. Offer something better. I picked up Jovanovic. If you don't know, let me draw for you. That is the essence and the gas deal is being monitored by the Russian Bank, which has 370 billion euros in the bank's portfolio. It's the essence of things. I agree with some of your remarks, Mr Jovanovic, they are obvious, but Serbia, which should be Serbia, which has policies both in the east and west, needs for us partners to be both Moscow and Brussels and Washington, especially the EU that I have to point out, because we have nowhere else to go. So we're not running away from it, we're not running away from your policy, as you resent telling us to run away from Russia. I am pleased to hear that you accept that the Russians are partners, but to give Russian arrangements and their capital the same status as we gave Austrian capital in Serbia or some insurance companies. I've had a lot of things here that I want to talk about. It doesn't matter that much to me, it is for these workers, if it's going to be 400 million, it's important for the actions we promised, and it's obvious that we're going to have a hard time doing it, I'd like it to be that way, so it's going to matter that price. But the effects we have on energy stability, I don't want to criticize the government, that you don't get me wrong, the effects in the area of energy stability, security, Russia won't defend the same interests, that's the political part, if this tube goes through Serbia and if this pipe, and if it has a variant, does not go through Serbia, will defend the story differently, will go to the pipeline in Republika Srpska or will go through Hungary and Croatia. If you're already talking about protecting national interests then let's also respect that component of national interest that may be for the Russians, but we certainly care about having the valve in Serbia, because then these same countries in the environment, don't think that we're blackmailing or threatening, but certainly looking differently, because their interests in relation to Serbia's position will be different. In addition, I am absolutely sure that if there is a clear approach Serbia can quickly build energy capacities in the area of renewable energy sources, and the processing of biomass and everything else, that we really become a leader in the production and placement of energy in the region. This will pay not only for these jobs, but I repeat, I have contacted some foreign funds and serious companies. It's not the same if there's a company here that's based on the Seashell Islands or some small trust fund that comes to you with a Krup who wants to build certain capacities or things like that around Nis. So, if we're talking about the NIS balance, maybe that profit, Mr. Jovanovic, was 100 million, but when you look at the structure of that profit, it's based on exchange rate differences, it's based on an oil rent that doesn't pay because domestic oil is about $600-700, and it's supposed to be 100 and something, because you helped NIS stay alive economically, so we'll see what we'll do with that. I have objections to that as well as my favorite autonomists. I agree if it could be taken out of the deal, those 600-700 thousand tons, that's what kept this country going during the war, but we'll talk about it. It doesn't say in the agreement, says Mr. Skundric. I must say that here I agree with Miss Jerkov and her MP group, although I call them autonomists, it would be good to protect both oil and gas in Vojvodina, but also in Serbia as a whole. To get back to NIS balance. So when you break out the exchange rate differences, when you break out the oil rent, when you subtract how objectively the state is damaged and when you calculate it and add it to the balance sheet of the NIS reserve, the amount of gasoline of 86 octanes, which I don't know if you can export more to Albania, then that NIS balance looks quite different. I'm not criticizing my colleagues from NIS, they're doing a good job under the state's duress, so it was simple, I'm not questioning the ability of management and everything else, but it's simply the NIS balance. If we come from all of this and the need to quickly develop our capacities, not to be overcome by others, that we may not be built by nukes in the neighborhood, provide their energy independence, but then Serbia should impose itself in the region, for example, as someone who is going to produce electricity, transit gas, and help Republika Srpska. Because patriotism, as I said yesterday, will not only be measured by a rifle, but by the economic power of our country, and thus we will be more valuable in the international, political and any other market, and if we succeed in attracting certain technologies that follow all of this, which are far better than the technologies that we have. And yet another in my opinion, inaccuracy, I'm not going to tell the truth, our government approves either our ministries and our agencies approve of everything that's going to be built in Pancheva, etc. We have laws that will oblige one who is an investor to apply environmental standards. Why does everything have to be in one agreement? Give me a legal act or a contract in which everything is precise. I don't think he has one. Therefore, this is an agreement. I'd be glad to see these other protocols and contracts, I'd be glad to have former Minister Velja Ilic right. Maybe soon the government will introduce us to all of this. So I don't think it's true that environmental standards will be compromised. Our government and our agencies are in charge of this thing. Since I have promised not to take up more time, I ask you to go back to considering and the positive aspects of this agreement, respecting that part of the colleagues from the opposition parties, even those who want to vote for this agreement, and those who do not want it, have made remarks that some of them may in some way be standing, but are not valid enough for this agreement to be denied. After all, we would lose so much time that we couldn't capture the developmental component and dynamics of development, the dynamics of foreign investments offered to us with this agreement, and the country would lead to a state of energy insecurity, or energy poverty, and I don't think that's our goal in this case. In any case, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group - Unity Serbia will vote in favour of the agreement, hoping with all its heart that it will bring not only energy efficiency, but economic efficiency as well. So, that this agreement will bring not only economic efficiency, development opportunities and new employment, but what is the main concern of the SPS privatisation process, will be economically effective unlike what happened in the previous period. Thanks for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1968	According to the Rules of Procedure, Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1969	This contract should be observed in a complex way. We're not talking about the price of NIS here. We're talking about the gas and oil arrangements. Romania would ratify this agreement tomorrow if the pipeline passed through Romania. And if you're traveling to Germany, where you have a pipeline in Germany, which today buys 50% of the total amount of gas from Russia, you have hundreds and hundreds of factories that have failed after the construction of the pipeline. These are factories that use the pipeline as energy or as raw materials. The same will happen in Serbia. It's like building a highway through dozens of mountains and suddenly there's a highway. No gas stations, hotels, houses, etc. It's the same in the economy and the pipeline economy. What we get through the overall arrangement cannot be estimated at 100m euros, 200m euros, 400m euros. This gives a brand-new investment rating to the Republic of Serbia. Our investment rating today in the world is very low. You can take a look at the agencies dealing with investment ratings. After the construction of the pipeline, we talked to many companies dealing with it, our investment rating will jump several times. If we want to attract foreign and direct investments, and we want to, we need to create a infrastructure that will enable it, roads, electricity, gas, the best gas stations. In the complex or in general, this agreement is really an extraordinary agreement, and if you really look at it individually, every detail, you might be able to discuss some things, but to discuss the whole oil-gas deal and call it a bad one, it's really a mistake. This is the best economic agreement Serbia has, fortunately, won. We were fortunate to have had extraordinary relations with the Russian Federation at one point and that this pipeline did not pass through Romania. It was a question: Romania or Serbia. They'd be cheaper through Romania. Through Serbia, we received this agreement thanks to our friendship with Russia, and we should be grateful to them. I wish all the countries of the world had gas and oil. They don't. We today have to buy gas and oil, like all European refineries, from Russia. (President: Time. I had two replicas. (President: Please bring the discussion to an end. In terms of integrity, indeed, any European country would be too pleased to sign this agreement. Today NIS is processing 3.5 million tons of oil. After Gazprom's entry and after this investment, it will process two to two and a half times as much as seven to nine million tons of oil. I would like to mention one more thing, the Bosnian Ship refinery, which was once closest to NIS, was purchased by a Russian company called Zavrež Naft, which has extraordinary relations and which also receives oil from Gazprom oil. Together, in the future, in four, five, six years, NIS and the Bosnian Ship will be able to produce 15 to 20 million tonnes of oil together and be the largest oil company in Southeast Europe. What this agreement offers is to create, for the first time in Serbia's history, the largest oil company in Southeast Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1970	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Palalic, go ahead and get Mr. Ilic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1971	Just in today's debate, what we saw last week in public, in which it is trying to collapse, I would not say an oil deal, but the attacks heard these days at a low NIS price have another goal, to bring down a gas deal with the Russian Federation. It's the target of all those criticising this joint oil-gas deal signed with the Russian Federation. It's not just about the economic reasons that come up here, so we heard that we're supposed to really be committed to co-operation with Russia, but in fact, what we agreed with them is wrong. Strategic interests are also at stake and those who try to convince us for days that we should not sign this agreement because it harms national interests, have a goal that has existed here for many years, which is that Russian capital and Russian economy and all that matters regarding stronger co-operation between Serbia and Russia are suppressed, and that those traditional relations that existed, good, friendly, at the political level between Serbia and the Russian Federation cut when it comes to business co-operation with the Russian Federation. It's actually a basic motive. In today's discussions, the controversy, the replicas, we listened to only attacks on that part of the NIS agreement, but the essence and greatest quality of this agreement is the agreement between Gazprom and Serbia, is the quality Serbia receives by building part of the South Stream through Serbia. We must observe in this sense the attempts seen today in parliament, as well as in previous days in the media, which favour it, to prevent the construction of the South Stream through Serbia and to raise the political level that exists between the Russian Federation to an economic level. These were heard about Russia being Serbia's stepmother. Who little knows Serbian history knows that the Serbian people and the Serbian state have always progressed, has always increased and has always spread when they had a strong and strong alliance with Russia. Those behind the collapse of this agreement a while ago have recognised a unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, and now they want to fight us with the Russian Federation. These are the key motives of the attack on this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1972	Mr. Velimir Ilic, replica, and then Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1973	I think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that here the goal of certain young hawks is clear. They want to convince us of something that suits someone, that some companies that are created in this part of Europe survive and stay and do their job without Serbia growing into one giant in oil industry, which would endanger small companies that are only intermediaries in oil and gas distribution. It's certainly a big fight for the market and it's using various means, various political options to defend it and not to be replicated. We know what our goal is, we know what the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, what the goal of this Parliament is, for Serbia to be economically strong, to become giant in certain parts of the industry, and not to be led here by some, to be told about oil by some dramatist, to be told by some girls, I don't know who they are or what they are. It's all nice and it's all good, but we have one serious strategy, a serious policy, we're going to take one serious path to make Serbia an important factor in the oil industry. And it doesn't answer to anyone, especially in this part of Europe, that a strong Russian company will come, which will develop it to the maximum. No one was fit to make Serbia a freeway concession, because it was made too expensive across Croatia and came to the Adriatic and no one is responding because Romanians and Bulgarians are making a parallel corridor, and if Serbia does, it will pull the traffic and investments that have been made, it will be unprofitable and I know it all. Serbia is full of little spies who work for small dinars, various political options, which do well and confuse the Serbian people, to lose the market, because we lost it in the tobacco industry, we lost it in the beer industry, we lost it a lot because we were not responsible for making some long-term development strategy. This is something long-term for Serbia, important for our children and our grandchildren who are coming. The interstate gas pipeline when it passes through one country, the story is finished, that country becomes energy giant, when it has a freeway pipeline. A lot of people want him not to come through here, go through some other countries, and they come out on their own, and we know whose interests they're protecting. Therefore, we do not need to waste much time here, the story is clear, this is important for Serbia, significant and glad that this government supports it, as well as the previous government, and that it stands behind this project and that this parliament will stand behind the project, as would the previous one. You know how, we do our job, dogs bark, caravans pass, everything ends right, but we won't pay attention because we don't have time to deal with something peripheral. I repeat, this contract follows a series of agreements that are under way. It will be defined to be a special ecology, and that's what was discussed and requested. No one will allow Serbia to be ecologically destroyed. It is not the interest of Europe, of Russia, of anyone, of Serbia. No one's gonna let that happen. I hope we can resolve this issue. I can criticise Mr. Djelic on some other issues, but there's no room for criticism here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1974	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have listened to ourselves today and percentages, and interests and local interests, but it seems to me that no one says what is most important what this agreement brings, except for Mr Velija Ilic, who has now said that it brings energy stability and independence. As a man who worked precisely in the gas industry from 72 to 96, I know very well the values of a pipeline and the values of this pipeline that are now to be built. When the story of a gas warehouse in Banatski Dvor began in 73-74, to this day the warehouse was not finished. Amazing investments, incredible funds need to be embedded in what's called a used oil well to become a warehouse and to iron consumption. What's our contract that day and day applies to the delivery of gas is continuity in consumption. You get the same amount of gas and flies in the winter. It flies when you can't spend and when you get extra in the gas system and in the winter when consumption is far higher or you can't, but you have to at far higher prices to import additional quantities. On the other hand, just because we have a transit through Hungary, we've had incredible problems, I'm saying this from experience, because I was working at that firm at the time. If it couldn't have been otherwise, there was a shortcut stuck in the pipeline. Cracer is usually a plug that is released into the pipeline system to clear the pipeline system, and on the other hand, the pressure pushes that cleaner. It's jammed, 24 hours without gas delivery, 24 hours now your pressure is dropping rapidly and you're shutting down consumers not by who's producing and whose value is the production, but by what's the production damage. Let me remind you, those of you who don't know, let's say a tunnel oven in the Paracino glass mill when its pipeline is shut down and completely after that has to build a new one. What's most difficult is the glass mass that's in that oven, the hammers are broken and thrown at the dump. Why this gas pipeline is a housewive for the Serbian economy. It's because we're closing the ring, so if there's no gas on the Hungarian side, it's coming down from this other side, and consumers can never run out of gas. Mr. Bajatovic said - a warehouse in Mokrin. It's an incredible opportunity to build a warehouse in Mokrine, but huge funds have to be invested. On the third hand, the Belgrade-Paracin pipeline has been built for about eight years and 30 per cent of Serbia's financial potential has been invested in this. Just so you know how much of the funds are invested in that pipeline. Today we get the opportunity to build a pipeline, to employ several hundred, or several thousand new workers in very good and very paid jobs, and to develop an economy in the area through which the pipeline passes. What the bus pipeline said, no regional gas pipelines, no local gas pipelines without a master gas pipeline. He's going to 50 atmospheres, they're going further to 10 and 12. Therefore, this agreement is an agreement that needs to be backed up in an airy manner because it gives its soul to the Serbian economy and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1976	Mr. Maras, would you like to give in to Mr. Jovanovic? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, and then Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1977	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think it's necessary to be a dramatist to understand why the agreement here is bad. I think reading is already being taught in the first grade of elementary school, if you don't teach kids before that, mine are doing well. What Mr. Ilic was talking about, in fact, we cannot find in the agreement that the government has passed on to us, neither in the Serbian version nor in the Russian version, which many of us speak. So there's no gas power plant in Novi Sad, there's no gas power plant in Nis, there's no cent of the billion investments mentioned. Can we know what the value of the company formed by the Russian and Serbian sides is, the company that divides 51 to 49% of the ownership? What's founding capital? You know that in every business. Can we get an answer to that question? Paranoia again. Whenever there's no argument, then myths and nonsense are offered. I think we discussed during the previous two days that there is no party in parliament that supported what happened in Kosovo on February 17th. Are there parties that say -- yes, Serbia gave Kosovo independence in 1999? Yes, there is, LDP is that party. Are there parties behind the fact that February 17th has not reached a solution for Kosovo? Yeah, there is, it's LDP. And we have a policy that is different from the policy of the previous government, a policy whose survival has been paid by such a poor content of the energy agreement with the Russian Federation. DSS and SPS MPs who supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica in the first term should answer when they heard there was oil and gas in Russia. Since a strategy of our country's energy development was adopted here in parliament, here in parliament, so your government fell apart, you have kicked out of the Nebojja Covic coalition for this reason. That's when you said there's no majority privatisation of NIS. It was a government strategy, not an LDP. What you panicked about is 13 MPs saying about it or other League colleagues, there will be 230 of you standing behind it. If 230 million were behind this deal, it couldn't hide that nonsense. This is not the first agreement of the Russian state with a country in the field of energy. They wrote it with our neighbors, wrote it with Bulgarians, with Greeks. Each agreement they signed meant mutual partnership. This is where the Russians become bosses, not partners, and we're not told why. Let us be offered all these arguments, but in the form of documents behind which both institutions and other countries stand. Where are the hundreds and thousands of jobs, where are the billions of investments? On what basis can we today vote in favour of this agreement when there is nothing in what has been sent to the MPs? Who knows which way nonsense. Small companies, medium-sized companies, one lobby, another lobby, all the lobbys were in Vojislav Kostunica's cabinet, including energy. They were all sitting there. And this chaos that we are facing today is the product of the incompetence of politics that has dominated this country since 2004, the inability to define itself, to strategically think, the inability to pay for our children. If they are to pay, at least let them know that we have fought against it and that we will rely heavily on a member of this agreement that indicates the possibility of change, with agreement both sides. Milosevic scratched Russia and China to the point where he developed animosity towards both states in this country. We will not allow it in the case of Russia, but we will behave in Serbia as the Russians behave in Russia. Take care of yourself first. The one who doesn't work for himself doesn't need others, and I think that, especially you from the DSS, you learned that lesson in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1978	The word is Mr. Balint, then Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1979	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 93(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This member of the Rules of Procedure determines the order of speakers in the search of the National Assembly. As head of the parliamentary group, I've been waiting an hour and a half for my turn, and no one who reports here by the Rules of Procedure is talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure but is taking part in the debate. I request permission from the president of the National Assembly to proceed with my presentation as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1980	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1981	Thank you very much. We have an agreement on the agenda between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, which was signed on 25 January 2008. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will certainly vote against confirming this agreement in the National Assembly. We also said that in January, we talked about it in a pre-election campaign. We're one consistent party. It is that we are now part of the ruling coalition because mathematically without us it was not possible to form a pro-European government, but that does not mean that we have to change our views lightly, it does not mean that we have to support something that we are convinced is contrary to the citizens of Vojvodina, that it is against all Serbia, that it is contrary to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because, regardless of being part of the ruling coalition, we will vote against ratification of this agreement in the day of voting. In short, of course, I will state the reasons why we are against the ratification of this agreement. First, the agreement is undefined in many elements, cannot be compared to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is an agreement on several hundred pages. This agreement is written on seven or eight pages and is very vague. In addition, it is difficult to understand in some elements, some elements, some provisions are not in line with the practice of formulating international contracts. Unfortunately, there are even language errors. If I wanted to be cynical, I could say that it is fortunate that the only version in Russian is relevant because it will not be interpreted as a version of the Serbian language, but if I wanted to be serious, and we should all be serious in the National Assembly, then I should say that this provision where only the Russian version is a relevant demeaning and unimaginable provision in the practice of making international agreements and international agreements. As regards the objectives of the agreement, the objectives are set out in Article 1. The agreement is an increase in energy security, mutually beneficial co-operation in improving Serbia-Russia's oil and gas economy and creating favourable conditions for design, financing, construction, reconstruction and use of gas and oil facilities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the objectives of this agreement are concerned, these objectives are not at all controversial and these objectives are supported by the Grand Duchy of Hungarians. What's the problem? The problem is that, on the basis of the provisions of this Agreement, these objectives are reached in this way as provided for in this Agreement, and we cannot possibly support it. But speaking of goals, one of the goals is building on the territory of the Republic of Serbia shares in the pipeline system. It's certainly just as undeniable. So we can, of course, support the construction of a section of the pipeline system on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but we don't know if it's a highway pipeline, we don't know if it's one leg, and we think it should have been regulated by this agreement. It's one of the most important elements that hasn't been determined by this agreement. It also envisions the construction of an underground gas storage facility at the site of the exhausted gas field Banatski dvor which, and I will say because of citizens who may not know it, is located in the municipality of Zitiste, 60km northeast of Novi Sad, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, the Republic of Serbia. The third goal is to reconstruct and modernise a technological complex belonging to the Oil Industry of Serbia Action Society. It is also undeniable, but it is a controversial way to "modernise and reconstruct" the oil industry of Serbia. So once again, the objectives are not controversial, but is a controversial way of achieving the intended goals. The Agreement provides that 51% of the stake in the Oil Industry of Serbia will belong to Russia, i.e. to the other Contracting Party, and some MPs have said that we are losing our ability to influence NIS business, that no one in the environment has regulated it with the Russians in such a way and we believe that, in the interests of Serbia and its citizens, we had to preserve this so-called gold action in order to have the opportunity and the right to influence the business of the oil industry in Serbia. We also oppose the sale of the Oil Industry in a way that does not organise a public tender in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act and the Sales Method Regulation. It's a little weird that NIS won't sell in the tender. Article 10 provides for the following: the selection of performers or more performers, as well as suppliers of material and technical resources and organisations that provide services necessary for the implementation of these projects by companies and the Oil Industry of Serbia, based on tender competitions. It is a little strange that certain works will have the obligation to organise a public tender, which, of course, is fine, since it is maximumly in line with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and there is no need to organise a tender for the sale of the Oil Industry of Serbia, regardless of the fact that such a direct violation of the Privatisation Act and the Social Capital Sales Regulation by a public tender method. The Agreement also guarantees a simplified procedure for crossing borders. Absolutely we can support it, but there is a small problem, there is one question: why is there no simplified procedure for crossing borders and other investors in other jobs from other countries or also from Russia to other investors, or potential investors who would like to invest in Serbia and thus create new jobs? So it's one of those kinds of discrimination against other potential investors that we can't support either. It also states in the agreement that the Serbian side for project implementation will ensure the allocation of land parcels. That's also good, but the question is raised among other potential investors, with other investors -- why can local self-government not be able to give, assign, assign land parcels? Well, because local self-government doesn't have land parcels. Why don't they? They do not have because Serbia and 2008 are a highly-centralised country, in which local self-government has no property, they do not have their own parcels that could certainly offer potential investors. It is a state that must change very quickly because Serbia is the only state in Europe where local self-government, municipalities and cities have no property. For this reason, they cannot assign parcels to investors and therefore investors do not invest in Serbia to the extent that it will invest that the situation is different. Not to mention that the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina doesn't have its own property today. I hope the National Assembly will pass this year a law on the property of local self-government and the law on the property of the AP Vojvodina. It is also foreseen in the Agreement, and I will also quote this, that the Serbian side will consider the possibility that materials, services and works needed to realise the projects listed in the first member of this agreement will be released from the tax on additional value until their profitability is achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, which investor, whether an investor or a potential investor in Serbia, has this opportunity to free the value added tax; not some other types of tax, for which there are still opportunities to exempt from paying those taxes to certain large investors, but which other investor in Serbia has the possibility of legally not paying the value added tax? It's an interesting question that makes us unable to support this agreement. Another reason, I will also quote the Agreement, in the event of the entry into the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, of amendments that lead to the deterioration of the conditions of taxation, to the achievement of the cost-effectiveness of the projects given will be carried out in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia which was in force on the day of the signing of this agreement. It is also one option, according to us illegal, given to the Russian side that the Russian side is placed in such an unequal position in a positive way towards other investors and potential investors, that we cannot support it at all, and not only that we cannot support it but simply cannot understand how it is possible for such privileges to be given in this particular interstate agreement. Finally, let me conclude and repeat the main reasons why SVM will vote against ratification of this agreement. There are five main reasons. I'd like to point out, for the first reason, that we're not against the Russian Federation. Of course, we're not against Russian capital. We simply cannot vote in favour of an agreement that unjustly favours an investor from any country at the expense of others and for political reasons. Also, if I wanted to be cynical, since we all know why these conditions are given to the Russian side, I could say that on the basis of this agreement, following the ratification of this agreement, the People's Republic of China and Indonesia could reasonably expect from the Serb Assembly, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to give them either the EPS or some other public enterprise. It's simply inconceivable and it's simply impossible and that's why we can't vote for this agreement. However, once again, we are neither against the Russian Federation nor against Russian capital, but we are against any social or public enterprise being privatised outside the legal framework, beyond the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. simply put, outside the privatisation procedure prescribed by law and regulation. So NIS was supposed to be privatized in the tendering process, in the privatisation process. That's another reason. So we're against bypassing the regular legal privatisation procedure. For a third reason, I could name the next one. We are opposed to not considering the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina. I said earlier that an AP Vojvodina property law was to be passed, to see what the property of the Republic of Serbia is, and what the property of the AP Vojvodina, which is, of course, an integral part, which is an autonomous province of Serbia. That didn't happen and that's why we can't support this agreement. In this group of reasons, I have to say the following. Not only are the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina not only respected, but not even the non-binding opinion of the Regional Executive Council or the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Rawness of the Regional Executive Council was not requested. I'm not even asking for an AP Vojvodina Assembly request, but at least the Ministry of Energy of the Regional Executive Council, at least the opinion of the Regional Ministry of Energy should have been requested. It can also be stated in this group of reasons, or I could ask a question, and just before I answered that question, where is Banatski Dvor? Banatski Dvor is in the municipality of Zitiste, AP Vojvodina, Republika Srpska. So that's one of the reasons why we should have asked for the opinion of the Regional Ministry of Energy. We also don't know whose it is or whose it's NIS. We know whose was "Naftagas", now we don't know whose NIS is, and regardless, it's being sold, and without the tender, without the privatisation process. Where almost all oil and gas production in Serbia is being realized? Well, in Vojvodina, and that's one of the reasons why the Ministry of Energy of the Executive Council of Vojvodina should have asked for an opinion. Mr. Bajatovic mentioned Mokrin as another oil site earlier. Well, Mokrine is also located, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. As a third reason, in addition to bypassing the regular privatisation procedure and in addition to not considering the interests of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, it is not considered, ladies and gentlemen Members of the public, unfortunately, not the strategic, economic, political interest of the state of Serbia and all its citizens. On what grounds do I claim that the interests of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens are not being considered? I argue this is because Serbia is losing its right to own oil resources that are natural wealth, so it will not be able to affect the price and supply of oil. We are losing our ability and the right to influence the business of NIS, and we all know well that in modern politics sovereignty depends heavily on the natural resources and strengths of one country depends heavily on the natural resources of a country. Serbia is losing sight or opportunity or right of influence over oil resources. The question can also be asked whether Serbia can participate in other energy projects? Well, it doesn't exist, it doesn't say in the agreement, but it is obvious that after ratification of this agreement there is no possibility for Serbia to participate in other energy projects, which is also at the expense of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. Finally, in addition to finding that the Russian side unfortunately has no, almost no obligations under this Agreement, it has only privileges, has only rights, and there are no real obligations, so, in addition to that finding, I must say the following - there is no word about protecting the environment and environmental standards in this agreement, and this is not only the opposite of the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina, but it is contrary to the interests of the state of Serbia and of all its citizens. For these five reasons, the SVM remains consistent with itself and, regardless of the fact that we are part of the ruling coalition, we are voting against an agreement with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1982	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1983	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Madam President, I really don't know when you think you're learning the Rules of Procedure anymore. I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, and I had an advantage over Mr. Balint. You're the one who knows which way you went over it. I'm just asking you to take care of things like that, we've had a lot to see in the past few days. The point I came forward was, of course, Article 104. I would like to point out something, that the energy strategy adopted by this country, or the government in 2005, is great, has really defended the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday we had a chance to see that here in the right way one opposition party, a large one, agreed because its amendment was adopted to support the SAA. What is the essence of this agreement we're talking about today? Whoever signed this agreement with Russia, and we know that Mr. Ilic signed it, absolutely does not want to go to Europe. Why doesn't he want to? Because this agreement is completely contrary to the strategy adopted by our country, energy, and it is the opposite for many reasons. There's not a word here about liberalization, there's even greater monopolization. The Energy Act, Mr Skundric, you certainly know, has so far been working to bring us closer to the EU. The new energy law that is being prepared and now public debate is definitely leading to the following: The government will determine relations in this area under the law. So there will be no laws, Mr. Bayatovic, if he's still in the O.R., you mentioned earlier that the laws will regulate many questions. Unfortunately, this will be regulated by the government, but not by law, but by, say, this agreement where it has taken over a lot of things to solve beyond legal regulations. I'd like to ask Mr. Skundric and Mr. Djelic a question. I'd really like to get a precise explanation: what about the Nabucco agreement we signed? You DSS gentlemen must remember that Mr. Naumov was in Bucharest, that he signed Nabucco and we know what was in that Nabucco. So it's the only community of Southeast European countries and there's one precise regulation how that Nabucco works. When we signed that, we made a commitment that together with all the countries that signed it, we stick to the direction the gas will come from and stick to the sources from which the gas will come. It is precise in that Nabucco that it is a Caspian gas, so it is not about Russian gas. What happens when we adopt this agreement? In fact, we are closing the doors to Nabucco, repealing the agreement that we have already signed and putting Serbia itself in danger of what we did yesterday, so we agreed to ratify the SAA in this assembly, in this way we will hit the most strongly under the agreement. There are many reasons, you who deal much more with politics than we do here in the Assembly, you know very well what Mrs. Angela Merkel sees with the Russian side of them. He complains about the pressure they put on Serbia to introduce Russian gas, i.e. Russian companies, into the country. I wanted to ask you, we're talking here, the first member is standing - the bus pipeline. We know what a highway pipeline is. I think it's in Serbia's interest to be a transit pipeline. (President: Time) We already have one of those, he's coming in from the direction of Hungary and coming out for Bosnia. I'd just like someone to tell me, if this is gonna be a transit pipeline where he's gonna end up? He can go in from all sides and the Russians themselves don't know where he's going to go, it doesn't matter, but who are we gonna sell gas to if it's transitory? Are we going to sell to the Croats, who will surely do it through Italy? Are we going to sell to Greeks, Romanians, Bulgarians? Where does that other leg end? Also, Mr. Bayatovic, you mentioned earlier that you are already preparing for one responsible function. I wanted to ask you if you might have spoken to the union organisations in Serbia, if perhaps they have told you that there is one document they have come to, and you can check it out, and I am ready to discuss at any time and anywhere in public whether there is a document brought by Gazprom, or the Russian party, that 6,000 will be out of work. So 6,000 NIS employees, or Serbiagas, will be out of a job. Check it out with the unions, whether it's like that or they're talking to the public so that maybe, as some of the DSS say, they'll stop the gas deal. Some other questions that we still have to start, so I hope Mr Djelic will answer, why do we have 186m euros in debt to the Russians, and the Russian debt that's bigger than that because we've subscribed their oil, will that ever be ratified in the Russian Duma?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1984	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, since the content of the advertising of the Rules of Procedure is almost spontaneously translated into the content of the discussions, that you know that we will record the time and that will enter the minutes after notice from now or we will interrupt after three minutes, so I will strictly apply the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1985	Madam President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I will not abuse the invitation to the Rules of Procedure, I will only ask that as an MP, I exercise the rights that follow me under Articles 225 and 226, and I ask that the chairman behave accordingly. I'd like to ask a few questions to the members of the Rules of Procedure that I mentioned. First, I would say, just before the head of the LDP parliamentary group mentioned that it was a contract, many said it was not a contract, but an agreement. I'd like to be given an explanation of the difference between a legal consequence of something called an agreement and a legal consequence that causes something called a contract. Furthermore, I would ask a question, I am sorry that my colleague Ilic is not in the O.R., I would not ask that question as a lawyer but as a Nisli. Well, according to what I heard, I probably wouldn't recognize my city as Nischlia if he came back to it. Of course, as Nischlia, I want to support the gas power plant and anything that will improve the quality of life in my city, but I'd like the merodative to explain where it says it. In this act that we are having today's debate, it does not say that to us as MPs, so to those who need to make a decision on it, no one guarantees that it will indeed be so. So, I repeat once again, I would like to be given an explanation of where it is written and what it is guaranteed, what MP Ilic was talking about. Finally, many called for Russia's protective and patronizing role towards Serbia and Serbs. I would address them as a professor of history of state and law. I'd like them to give me an example from history that Russian intervention is about bringing someone freedom, democracy and money.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1986	The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1987	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, Madam President, I address you first and foremost. Some time ago, this event is not important because of this particular event, Mr. Former Minister Mr. Velimir Ilic called me a girl there. It doesn't matter what happened to me, I think it's important because of the way we talk in this high house and the way we work. Article 104. In this regard, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are extremely precise - the MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Please, this isn't the first time that you don't react, the MPs insult each other, insult people who aren't here. I ask you to respond in the future and make sure that at least one day goes by during this session that someone in this assembly, at this pay phone, is not offended by national, religious or full-time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1988	Thank you. I ask the messengers to take care of the way they address other messengers and how they are addressed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1989	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we ratified the SAA yesterday as the beginning of a process of Serbia's entry into the EU. By the very fact that we have ratified this agreement, the vote will be on Monday... On Monday's vote? )......................................................................................................... And you too, Mrs. Radeta, have said that you will vote, so I believe that the agreement will be accepted by the great majority. We have opened an opportunity for Serbia to join the EU, which does not mean that this opportunity will be used, and in agreement we have seen a large number of steps and things that have to happen to end the whole process. Not so detailed, but similar things are also with this agreement that the Serbian Parliament is to verify, and under this agreement we will open the door for possible future energy co-operation between Serbia and Russia and thus enter into the negotiation process from which a final buy-in contract should arise that concerns all elements of this agreement. That is why it is important to say that Serbia is a country that has to deal with this topic, because we are not and we do not have enough capacity to support ourselves, 10-12% is our domestic production in terms of needs and therefore it is necessary to make one such agreement. However, in the negotiation process, as Deputy Prime Minister Djelic said, we are ratifying a full agreement that has several elements, seen by today's debate in the Serbian Parliament, I don't think any of the topics have been received in the last few years as much transparency and publicity as this agreement is, and I think that in the next few months or perhaps longer than a year, as we go to that final contract, there will be no problems that would lead to our country eventually signing any negative agreement. I will remind you that there are three basic elements of the future contract, primarily the issue of the pipeline, its capacity, and the essence of the pipeline, then the issue of the regional storage facility in the Banatski dvor, also the capacity, and, of course, the NIS issue. There are many elements to be discussed in the coming period, both the structure and what to buy when buying NIS and what to do with oil exploitation in Serbia. Therefore, I think there is a huge space to make a favourable arrangement for Serbia if we negotiate well. What's important is that the public is present. I don't think anyone mentioned a member of the 15th of this agreement. The parties that verified this in January in Moscow were aware that when such a big deal was made, there would be interest, suspicion and various other things. It is well said, in the event of circumstances preventing one of the parties from fulfilling its obligations or other differences in this Agreement, the authorised authorities shall carry out certain consultations in order to take mutually acceptable decisions. If differences are insurmountable, they will be resolved through negotiations between the parties with the legal distinction of the relevant protocols. It is important to say this because of Serbian citizens, so that they do not get the impression that by ratifying this agreement next week, that I am not now attached to a specific day, does not mean that the pipeline will go through Serbia the next day and that the oil industry will become the property of Gazprom. It's the beginning of a serious and not so short negotiation process. I say - not so short, because it cannot be completed until the feasibility study, which I think is done by Annie of Gazprom's daughter and is estimated to be the end of that study at the end of 2008, and things are likely to be in the first half of 2009. Therefore, the time is ahead of us, that perhaps even at some new session of the Serbian Parliament... (President: Time. We are talking again about the government of the Republic of Serbia taking a position again if necessary... Mr. Senic, time. I allow you to continue as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. )......................................................................................................... It's not necessary for passions to be this upset because nothing can be hidden from the public. You have an example of Ukraine where an entire administration and the government fell because it made a bad deal, so the people in some revolution brought it down. After that, they sold 10 or 15 times as expensive. Therefore, the time ahead will answer all the questions that plague us, all the dilemmas that potentially burden this agreement. What I'm saying is that G17 plus will vote to ratify this gas deal. To remind MPs and all political parties that this agreement was first found in the government at a sensitive political moment several days before the presidential elections were called, when Serbia was in one situation when the previous government practically began to divide and that the issue of ratification of the SAA and the balance and talks on this arrangement with the Russian Federation was simply what Vice-President Djelic said, and the economic and political reality in which Serbia lives today. You today also have EU countries that are quite dependent on imports of gas from Russia, so when you watch the EU Council of Ministers ambush when it comes to some issues of Russia, it can be seen somewhere behind the scenes how much influence it is and how important it is that the country is dependent on imports of gas from Russia. Some other richer states can fight alternative types of energy, and America can plan to build 60 nuclear power plants over the next ten years. We have an oratorium by 2020. We are where we are, we are talking about this agreement, we will ratify this agreement, but this is the beginning of serious talks that need to lead to a final purchase contract that must in any case protect Serbia's vital national and economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1990	Thank you. Mr. Bajatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1991	Dear colleagues, as inspiring as this gas arrangement is to me, not only because of the fact that there is a clear majority and a clear awareness of the need to adopt this arrangement, but also because of the supremacy of the counterarguments of us criticising those critical of the gas agreement, not respecting all aspects that were. I wanted to say that I noticed that one of the components of the attack on the adoption of a gas arrangement is so-called. social status. As much as people can get out of those 400 million, it's going to be given to these shares, it's going to reduce the possibility of it being 1,000 euros as promised, but I think it's a lot better to get as much work for our children and for us as possible, instead of throwing ourselves at some fictitious categories. What do we do with 1,000 euros? It's a good thing we get those 1,000 euros in shares. I think it's a bigger problem what happens to those stocks when they get to the wounded, so by buying those shares, they increase their participation in the capital process and so on. Another lie is being told here by Mr. Marash, he says, "It's going to be 6,000 workers out of work." There are so many NIS and Serbiagas together. Serbiagas has six times fewer employees. It would be good if those people who make the arguments here didn't bring it up on a flat-rate basis, but brought it out really well. One more thing, here's a number of MPs, I don't think they understand a thing. They say we have 49%, so we have to give more money. If you get practically a manufacturer and processor here, the Russians come with their oil here, an oil pipeline. They process oil here in this amount of 12, 15 or 20 million tonnes, as Mr Popovic says. Where will this be produced? Here in Serbia. Is that a very profitable job? Yes, Mr. Djelic knows that. Then the dividends for our companies will be big. Whether we invest, the Bureau to collect profits, we can't lose. I ask that this argument, so that the judges in the American series say, that the jury who listens to this, which is our electoral body, simply ignores it, because it's not economically correct, is de facto. So, we're very comfortable with becoming, and that's what it says in the proposal of the material, the main distributor, the main energy producer in these areas. It strengthens both political and other positions of Serbia. I promise, at least personally as far as I'm concerned, I don't know how the other colleagues who have been reported for the discussion are going to hear from me, but I think we're both critics and arguments that have been counter-exhausted, and it would be good for us on call to give the other fellow MPs a chance to share their views on this arrangement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1992	Ms. Jovanovic, and then Mr. Popovic, and then we'll agree on a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1993	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the presentation of the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, on very clear reasons why our parliamentary group will vote for this so-called. gas arrangements, we came in just to get close to those people's MPs who were not in the room at the time because of some other obligations and meetings of the board in a really rough debate by those for whom it turned out to be, here at the very end, is the witness and the author of the government, Bozidar Djelic, that they do not know in the right sense what the South Stream means. Even one asked us - and where will the leg that should pass through Serbia go? Mr. Djelic, not you, but right now I have to explain what you obviously didn't explain as an authorised representative of the government. Why aren't you, I don't know, but just enough to help this fellow who's not in the O.R. right now, to understand what this is about and to understand the significance of this truly historic moment. The compression station in Russia in the Black Sea town of Beregovaj, which will run a 900km route, that South Stream, also named in 2006 in an agreement signed by Russia's Gazprom and earlier by Mr Senic, mentioned by Italian Eni, was conceived as the largest energy and strategic project ever in Europe. Only ignorants and those who try to bring down a gas deal with these weak economic arguments do not see it as a project that has, above all, both a political and geopolitical connotation. Because, not to be seen in such a way as Russia's role in the world today, its role as the largest gas owner of one-third, 28.6% in the world in general, the EU's relationship with these Russian resources, and we now need to explain it through two or three lessons of some lectures here, so that we can get the opportunity to talk about the so-called list of ourselves. South Stream. Then someone wondered where the pipe would go, but please, you who will see it later or you will repeat it to Mr. Djelic, explain nicely to him that he is going to the Bulgarian city of Varna, along this 900km track, and then across Greece with this southwest line, which is the one that Mr. Popovic also mentioned this morning to southern Italy, and then to this northwest part through Serbia, which is most important. Because they have defined themselves as the Balkan Peninsula, but this time through Serbia, to EU countries, who are eager to buy this strategically important energy from Russia, in this case we have a very significant historical participation in the project. And it is both political and geopolitical and economically very important aspect, because transit in one kilometer is up to $3.2 and then you can imagine, it will be so that when the project is completed, only from taxi-based transit, as experts are now assessing, 200 to 300 million dollars a year will have. So economic logic is also clear and everything we're going to talk about this afternoon, infrastructure projects, how much it means to citizens, to industry. But if you'll allow me, with one brief story, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, to finish and also show you that our Russian brothers are looking at this stalemate position in which Serbia has found itself, not ratifying the January gas arrangement, the whole thing. It's an opportunity for you to have one neighbor, and your car is old and it's almost for sale, for sale of all hundred euros or dollars, and then your other good neighbor shows up, in this case it's not our neighbor, but brother Russia, and says let me buy from you, or more to invest in that car that you have, to fully recover it, that he can be in and how the driving condition, change everything to him, if he needs all the parts and bodywork, and that neighbor of yours, in this case, Russia invests a lot more money. In the end, when you get it done like that, you almost make it a new one, you say, I don't have any fuel, how I'm going to drive that car, and that neighbor, or Russia says, I'm going to build a gas station in that yard. At that time, you can even see a gas shortage. You can pour free, here you go, we've got a car that we allegedly recovered together, but I've given a lot more money. And then you're at the end of that whole story, and that's what those of you who've been arguing about gas arrangements all morning, you ask them, and if I'm a good neighbor, I sold those old cars. There's an old story about an old man and a goldfish, but some other time, and only so close to what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1994	Mr. Nenad Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1995	I'm just going to replicate at the expense of the master's and transit pipeline. The highway and transit pipeline is one and the same. What we've got on the freeway pipeline, it's a transit pipeline. Just to explain to those who didn't know. Secondly, as far as sulphur and ecology are concerned, NIS refineries were designed to work 90% on Russian oil and 10% on Iraqi oil. The sulphur in that oil that we get, which goes through the pipeline, is about 1.4% of the average, and the same sulphur is in oil in all EU refineries. We get the same oil used by all refineries in the EU. You mentioned Nabucco. Someone mentioned, said we agreed that Nabucco would go through Serbia, that's not true. Nabucco passes through Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and comes to Austria, there to that Baumgarten, which is the largest gas hub in Europe, so Nabucco was never planned to pass through Serbia. Let me just say one more thing: now in Europe, the fuel that is the EU standard4 is used, and since 2010, everyone will have to use the EU standard5. Usually this process of technologically increasing standards takes five, six years, and imagine, we have to do it in two years, even now in less than two years, because we haven't ratified this agreement, because if Gazprom had already entered the NIS, we would have already done it. We have one huge job to do immediately after the ratification and entry of Gazprom oil, which is to raise the fuel level by the beginning of 2010 to the EU5 level used, which is required everywhere in Europe. Just the last one, I've got 20 seconds left, we've lost time on ratification, someone's slow about the price, trying to break the deal, and it's much more important that we start negotiating the right things. In Article 5 of this Agreement, you can see that we can obtain the status of a trans-European energy network. What does that mean? If we get that status, it needs our negotiating team, Mr Ministers and Vice-Presidents, to fight for us to get the status of trans-European networks, because then we will be able to use all the European Union funds that are set for those who are members of that network. Let me just say, after the construction of the pipeline, after the reconstruction of the refinery, after the entry of Gazprom into NIS, we will become a much, much more desirable partner to everyone, both to the European Union and to all countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1996	Thank you. I'm setting a break until 15 and 15 and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to a brief agreement on further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. At the beginning of the afternoon session, and on the basis of Article 85, the announcement that today's session will continue until the end of the agenda, which is just in progress, if the debate does not end until 18.00 hours. After the afternoon work, it was left for MP Nenad Popovic to speak as a representative of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1998	Dear Presidents, vice-presidents, fellow MPs, the DSS will vote for the adoption of this bill on confirming an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation in the area of oil and gas co-operation. We are very pleased that this contract was launched during the chairmanship of our government, Prime Minister Kostunica. The geopolitical position of Serbia really enables us to be one bond, as we have been for centuries, between the East and the West, because Italy, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, Austria, but also very likely Slovenia, is involved in this project. Although in the previous part of the session there were many words about the permissive power of this pipeline and there were talk of a minimum of 10 billion cubic metres of gas that would go through this transit pipeline, by entering Slovenia, through the very likely entry of Slovenia into this project, and this ratification by Greece, there is a great possibility that this figure would be twice as large, to reach 20 or 25 billion cubic metres of gas annually. This will depend, of course, on the skills of our ministers, on the government's skills to do so in the best possible way. We were talking about energy security. This is what makes it more difficult today for all countries in Europe and the future, in particular the economic future, each country will ensure if it provides itself with the possibility of obtaining energy, safely, reliably, within the deadlines and most importantly at favourable prices. By building this pipeline and entering the NIS Gastrom Oil for the next 50 to 100 years, Serbia provides itself with what virtually all European countries are dreaming about – energy security, because whoever has energy in the future will also have an economic future. The economic future of each country is directly linked to the reliability and regularity of the supply of energy. I don't have to explain that this way every household in Serbia will get gas. He's got a chance to get gas. We have technical and technological preconditions for that. It is another element that really puts this agreement into the leading agreements that are being signed in Europe today. Of course, once again, in addition to the North Stream, in which Russia and Germany participate, South Stream is the largest energy project in Europe and we are participants in the project. I'll only list a few elements. We get 400km of pipeline routes, we get two billion euros of investment, we get about 200m euros each year from the payment of transit. Another 100m euros, according to our estimates, will come from an outsourcing service to Gazprom, NIS, by making use of these companies. Also, if we increase the volume of the pipeline, if the government is skilled in this and manages to achieve this with our Russian partners, I assume that these incomes will be much higher than these 200m euros a year. As far as the gas warehouse is concerned, I have to say it's a storage facility of 800 million cubic metres. It is an investment of another 150m euros and the Republic of Serbia will, during the exploitation of this warehouse, in about 25 years' time, becasing about 400m euros from storage. For the first time, we're getting the place of a regional gas distributor, which is extremely important. We are becoming the most important hub in this European-Russian pipeline, and believe that all European countries will really have the greatest desire to cooperate with us in a very good way, and not to say politically. I am sure that after construction, I will repeat that once again, we will become the EU's most desirable partner here in the Balkans. We are not going to the EU to beg for something, but we are really going to be an equal partner and it will be the EU's greatest desire to join the EU as a regional distributor. Of course, this will be the third largest warehouse in this part of Europe. We have to say that Hungary is currently building a much larger underground warehouse and so that Austria, many have forgotten to say, has a similar warehouse, similar size, where 50% in Austria owns that warehouse also Russia's Gazprom. So we become one of the main distribution elements in the future energy division throughout Europe. As far as NIS is concerned, I'd like to add as many positive elements here. One is that we will get 400m euros, the state of Serbia will enter for the sale of 51% of capital. We will receive 500m euros in investment per state-of-the-art NIS production capacity technology. Production will increase, which today is 3.5 million tonnes of oil, to seven million tons of oil, and we will ensure security and stability in supply. Today we understand that practically 90% of the oil that comes to Serbia comes through mediators. In this case, we'll have directly from the oil manufacturer. NIS will become the region's energy leader. I will repeat once again, I will use this time, that it is a very positive moment and that the refinery in the Bosnian Ship has also been purchased by the Russian company Zarubezneft, who is the strategic partner of Gazprom. I am also sure that future co-operation between the NIS and the Bosnian Ship of the Refinery will lead to the fact that the production capacity may grow from 15 to 20 million tonnes of oil processing annually, leading to this, the NIS will definitely, without a doubt, become the largest oil company in Southeast Europe in several years. Currently, NIS has 490 gas stations on Serbia's territory. All these 490 gas stations will be reconstructed, also according to the highest European standards, for the next five years, and also in the reconstruction, the highest European and world standards will be respected technologically and also these ecologically. I repeat what I said until the break that the oil, which was said about, is a scattered export brand, it's oil used by all European refineries. This oil has sulfur according to the European standard 1.4%, the same oil used by all refineries and the same sulphur. So, environmental protection will be at the highest standards possible. I also say that all the world's largest companies are working on this oil, this is no other oil, and NIS is projected with 90% of its capacity on this oil. What we should mention once again is that the quality of fuel will be driven and must be brought by 2010 to EU level5, which has been the European standard since 2010. It's also not mentioned one very important element, it's that the exploitation of these fields, which is now done in a rather outdated way, many are already dried out, will be done in the most modern technologies. The Russian company Gazprom really has the most modern technology because it exploits oil in the world today. Let's not forget one thing, the scientific potential of NIS engineers, which was great, especially in the past, will be reused at oil sites in Russia. Also, let us not forget that the state of Serbia is 49% owner of the NIS and that 49% of the largest oil company in Southeast Europe will belong to the Republic of Serbia and Serbia will regularly receive dividends. What the Government urgently needs to negotiate is not elements that can violate this agreement, since there are some members of the government who might want to change the price already agreed, first of all they need to commit themselves to increasing the permissive power of the pipeline, to make an optimal route of the pipeline, and this will be possible after ratification when it starts to create the physibilities of the study, to contract specific conditions, scope and deadlines of delivery of all the elements in the construction, to see all positive elements that could include as many Serbian companies in the construction of the pipeline as possible, as well as in the reconstruction of the underground warehouse in the Banatski Dvor, and where we approach the European Union the most, to obtain the status of the trans-European energy network, which is written in Article 5 of this Agreement, where the government's skill can really enable additional revenues from the European Union. After the construction of the pipeline, following the reconstruction of the oil industry in Serbia, several times the world standards will increase Serbia's investment rating and Serbia will become much more tempting, as it can offer foreign investors the best infrastructure in Southeast Europe. If the highways are built we will practically have gas, electricity, and the best refineries and also the best roads. At that point, I want to say that our weight is growing in partnership between the Russian Federation and the European Union. We become that tissue that connects the Russian Federation and the European Union, even in the range of gas and oil industries, which is certainly of the most important elements for the future for Europe. Much more attention to this oil deal is given to politicians from the European Union, many of them have a very positive attitude, they want this pipeline to start as early as possible, because it is not Serbian-Russian but it is Serbian-European, and it is a great deal of attention given by Italy, Austria, Germany, and it is very strange that they show a much greater desire, especially for people who work in these companies, people who work in the oil and gas industry, for this arrangement than for individuals in Serbia. I think there are many more elements we can talk about, positive elements, but no doubt this is the best deal Serbia could sign, because it unites all energy bases, we get both gas and oil directly from whoever has it, and not from intermediaries. This is an agreement that will introduce Serbia to the big door as one future major economic centre not only in Southeast Europe but in all of Europe, because with the infrastructure that we will have, we will certainly be the biggest leader in the region. I am sure that all the countries in our environment, all the former republics of Yugoslavia, our neighbours, Romania above all, would prefer this pipeline to pass through their country, but here we can today be happy and free to say that for Serbia's economic future, and also geopolitical, and also for Serbia's energy security over the next 50 to 100 years, this historic day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u1999	National MP Zoran Ostojic points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the word has been sent by the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2000	The President-in-Office, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 104, that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I believe that when false facts are presented that this violates the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think Mr Popovic did it with intent, etc., but he was undeniably saying that 300m euros would be a year-long transit tax and Serbia's income. First, there won't be so much as 10 times less. Secondly, and if it is, it is not Serbia's income but Russia's state-owned company. Thirdly, Mr Popovic mentioned Zarubezneft for the second time today, the purchase and acquisition of the Russian company in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or Republika Srpska. How much they paid for the refinery that has grown into weeds, the splinter, which is falling apart: 126m euros. In addition, they got 60 Petrol pumps and something really only worth it in the acquisition, I'm talking about Republika Srpska, which is the refinery of oil in Modrica. That's about three times what they get and what you offer them through NIS, and the value of that is at least ten times that. We can't talk about value now, because at the end of the day, we don't know and you don't want the value of NIS to be found out, and the only way to find out the value of NIS is to go to the tender. These are some data that would not be good for citizens to go amongst citizens and that citizens think this is a good deal. I repeat, LDP is not against the gas deal with Russia, it is not against co-operation with Russia, but not under these conditions. We are not attacking business with Russia, we are not attacking anything but a bad agreement that the previous government signed and unfortunately the new government put before us to vote, this Russian version, because ultimately it is the only valid and official version. So with the data a little bit more carefully, because it's not right that if you don't have the arguments to defend this agreement, then we're giving up some numbers that can bring someone up, let's give them arguments. We are giving arguments why this is wrong, and we are not talking about the political and political influence the Russian state will have on the Serbian state, there will be opportunities during the debate to throw ourselves at politics. After all, when we talk about the transit revenue the Russian state will have, not Serbia, because it will have majority ownership, then let's say what is the net income. Are we going to be rich in Republika Srpska, since, on the basis of pipeline capacity, it will all go to Bosnia alone? Will that pipeline come from Russia across the Black Sea and skip the law to Dimitrovgrad or come to some country in Bulgaria? Do we pay for transit through that country? Don't talk about numbers so easily, because, after all, if there's a Russian income, what's it to us? That's the company's income. Certainly, income is much less than you've pardoned, and the acquisition of Russia's other state-owned company in Republika Srpska shows, in the best way, how underrated this agreement is, or how scandalous this agreement is and how cheaply it's been selling something that's been created for decades, and what should probably remain for those who come behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2001	The breach of the Rules of Procedure stands out, MP Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2002	I'm just here to answer to my distinguished colleague, Ostojić. I've been talking all day about numbers. I mentioned at least five or six times that the annual gas transit income will be 200m, and in case Slovenia enters and we increase that transit through Serbia will be close to 300m euros annually. The income is the income of the joint venture of the Republic of Serbia and Gazprom. And that, 51% is Gazprom in that joint company, 49% of Serbia. That income stays here, does not go to the Russian Federation, and will likely be used for development, for the cost of construction of pipelines, etc. I'm just saying that 49% gets Serbia in the pipeline, and direct investment gets the entire Republic of Serbia, Russia doesn't get it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2003	National MP Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2004	It's the same member again, since it's the fighting again. The Russian state won't have 51% under this agreement, it doesn't say here. It says at least 51% here, and our country will have not 49, but a maximum of 49%. At least 51% can be 100, at most 49% can be zero. So when you quote an agreement that you're standing up for so warmly, quote correctly - at least 51. On the other hand, whoever runs the company decides where the profits go and how they transfer them. Therefore, it will end up in the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2005	National MP Nenad Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2006	One more time to answer to my distinguished colleague, Ostojić. Yeah, it says at least 51% and no more than 49%. So it's defined. Why would Serbia go less than that? It won't work, it'll have 49%. There's government representatives, that's the deal. Secondly, once again, this joint company is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that pipeline is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and we get two billion foreign direct investment that will be used here, mostly by Serbian construction companies, we will employ tens of thousands of people, and the modernised NIS, surely after production increases twice, there will increase at least 20-30 per cent of the workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2007	The word is a folk letter from Nada Kolundzija, followed by a folk MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2008	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs of the DS, the Sandzak Democratic Party and the SPO will vote to ratify Serbia's oil and gas deal with the Russian Federation. Whenever contractual obligations are at stake, there is always a question of interest as far as we are concerned, not some other categories that go beyond what is the assessment of Serbia's interest which signs the agreement. From the point of view of interest, there is always a question of the interest of both sides and possibilities -- what side has to offer. That contract, like all contracts, as well as the one we discussed yesterday, has advantages and disadvantages. And that's where we're different -- who's looking at mostly disadvantages or who's looking at mostly what's advantageous or how they measure those two things. From our point of view, we measured not what the current interest is, but what is Serbia's strategic interest, and on this basis we have defined ourselves, and on this basis we have no doubt that what might not currently seem to be the most favourable arrangement, strategically speaking, over the long years ahead, is a good arrangement for Serbia. What is also important to us is -- with whom it is concluded, again from the point of view of Serbia's interest, this contract. It is concluded with a country that is strategically important to Serbia, not only in this matter, but also in political terms and economically, it has special importance for the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, when we think about what company we're making this agreement with, it's also crucial that we make a deal with one of the most powerful companies in the world. So these aren't the parties that are the players of the 3, 4, or the 5th row. We here make arrangements with someone who is one of the most important or important players on the scene of Europe when it comes to energy. Why this agreement is important to us, too, in a geopolitical sense. Among other things, because this is not just an arrangement concerning Russia and Serbia. This is a European project, and it gives us a chance to engage in something that is extremely important for those countries with which we, on the other hand, have a contractual relationship through EU accession. Of course, it is clear to everyone that the economy of each country depends on energy. A country that does not have energy stability and secure energy sources cannot plan its economic growth and thus cannot plan the standard of its citizens, and in that sense I think it is indisputable for anyone to provide energy security and security of energy sources for Serbia is of particular importance, and that is what we have also measured, opting to vote for ratification of this agreement. It is also of particular importance to us that this agreement enables Serbia to show that, by defending its interests, by seeking its own interests, it has the ability to be open to co-operation with all the countries that are important in this co-operation, not choosing according to sentiment and some worship or idolatry, starting first and foremost from what the interests of Serbia are. Again, for those who say that something is too small, whenever others said that something was sold for too little money, we were always responsible for as much as possible. I think that in this case, by making a broader arrangement that is not only about NIS, but rather more important strategically, we have actually made a good choice for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2009	The breach of the Rules of Procedure stands out, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2010	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have reported in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure. I think Mrs. Kolundji's misread me, because in fact we're the only ones in the middle of the day. I don't know who else but us was talking about the fact that the set price for NIS was unacceptablely low, and besides, no one asked us to be told on the basis of which criteria amounted to $400 million, as an amount acceptable to 51% of NIS. What is important for us to see your agreement as strategically beneficial, not strategically devastating for Serbia are actually information that we did not get, although we are in the fifth or sixth hours of the debate, information that we have asked for multiple times during our discussions. Once again, we ask the government's representatives: what is the founding capital of a company formed by Gazprom and NIS, or "Srbigas"? What is the founding capital of the company that the Russian state has with 51%, the Serbian state with 49%? What we are also very interested in, and that is where in the agreement that we are talking about today, are the basis for the findings presented here by the advocates of the agreement, which describe the agreement as very strategically beneficial for Serbia? What results from these hundreds of billions of investments? What results from the belief that gas power plants will be created, which will improve the energy situation in Serbia, the gas power plant in Novi Sad and gas power plants in Nis? What we see in this agreement is, in fact, what we have criticised so many times so far, politics and ephemeral, the temporary interests of one coalition, which is more or less distanced from itself and its previous political procedures, but in this case it goes much slower, because it had a partner who and how he cared about his interests, and this partner is the Russian Federation. That is why we sign an agreement with Russia, which is completely different from the agreements signed by other countries that also want to develop energy co-operation with the Russian Federation. It is clear that there is a geopolitical weight in this document, but it is clear that at the moment of signing this agreement, the least account was taken of the interests of the Republic of Serbia, or if it was conducted, was misrepresented. It's too much paradox. Why did the agreement be signed by the Minister for Infrastructure and not by the Energy Minister in charge? Why did Mr Popovic withdraw from the negotiations? He withdrew from negotiations along with then-minister for economy Mladjan Dinkic. Mr Djelic knows how negotiations on clearing debt were held in 2001. So in 2001, the government, the first democratic government of Zoran Djindjic, sought to build and develop economic co-operation with the Russian Federation, and this went very hard because there were major political considerations. It's okay, we're talking here today, give us an argument to vote on that agreement. Where are the new jobs, on which the value of NIS is established, who guarantees that everything that is said in the explanation will be respected, that in the end our environment will be protected? Who guarantees that this will be invested in technology in the way it's suggested. Let's look at the experiences everywhere in the environment and you'll see that it didn't happen anywhere without the firm guarantees that their foothold had in the agreements, and what we're talking about today is the least of our footholds in an agreement that lies ahead of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2011	The word has been made by MP Momo Colakovic, president of the United Pensions of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2012	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected presidency, respected government representatives, respected MPs, the United Pension Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the law on ratification of the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. We see this as an economic issue, then only politically. That's why we're asking you to keep that in mind. Secondly, our parliamentary group expects special attention from the government and the competent authorities to address the implementation of this agreement. The first question is that all the scientific and production potentials that the Republic of Serbia has in this arrangement and the implementation of the arrangement. That's a very important question for us. Secondly, it is very important to keep in mind the status and position of workers. We particularly insist on the agreement between the unions and the resolution authorities on the implementation of this agreement. Thirdly, we think it is very important that parliamentary parties, as we have insisted with the previous two points of the agenda, draw closer to positions, particularly regarding relations in the country's economic fate. In that sense, we think it is possible to bring the views, if not all, then most of the MPs in our parliament. The last thing we insist on is the issue of engagement, above all, of unemployed workers and young experts in relation to the implementation of the programme. In this regard, we expect full engagement of all available potentials related to the implementation of this programme. With regard to the arguments presented here by individual debaters, I would particularly point out the support of our coalition partners, Mr. Bajatovic, on this issue. In the end, because of everything that's been said and carried out here, we will vote on this agreement in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2013	Since neither the presidents nor the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups appear anymore, we move on to the debate and on the list of registered speakers. The first has the word of MP Milisav Petronijevic, and after that, MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Serbian Government, an agreement to simplify, on co-operation in the area of gas and oil industry, was signed on 25 January 2008 in the presence of the country's highest state summit. It was high time for Serbia to give its judgment on this by ratifying this agreement in the National Assembly. A lot of time has passed, deadlines for the implementation of the agreement can even be questioned and trust in the Republic of Serbia is really serious in its intentions when it negotiates, as of course, and is ready to carry out all its international obligations. As far as this agreement is concerned, the authorised representative of the SPS-Single Serbia parliamentary group, my friend Dusan Bajatovic, has very detailed the essence of the SPS support for this agreement. I'll just repeat in a few sentences the SPS position. The SPS-Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote to ratify this agreement. Of course, it is economical at first, but I am not ashamed to say that it is political, because we are making an agreement with one of our friendly countries, which we are grateful for supporting in the fight to protect the national and state interests that Serbia has led and led. In drawing up the agreement, the SAA negotiations did not take part, as it did not take part in the two days we talked about, but it will certainly stand behind it. I expect and believe that the vast majority of MPs of the National Assembly will support this agreement or vote for its ratification. And that is what the SPS also advocates, when it comes to the strategic issues of Serbia, to achieve the greatest possible degree of unity by all relevant political factors, because it is in the interests of both Serbia and Serbia's citizens, as we have advocated when ratifying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'll just give you a few details. In the light of the energy importance of this Agreement, given that the implementation of the agreement will result in an increase in energy security through stable and continuous supply, through the provision of safe and sufficient amounts of energy over a long period of time, it is one very big reason to vote for this agreement. All the serious countries in the world are putting their government's priorities on ensuring energy security for the country, because there is no economic, economic, economic, or any other development without it. Of course, when it comes to the agreement, when you look at its details, when you look at the pieces, there's certainly some objections, and we'd have a comment. We would prefer that when the relationship in Serbia's oil industry is 51 to 49, we wish it were the other way around, that the state remained the owner of 51% and the NIS 49. But when we look at the whole, when we look at the whole agreement, we can come to the conclusion that at first we get a little bit, but over a long period of time we get a lot. I've only provided one detail that speaks of energy stability. If we look at the second section relating to the transit and delivery of gas that will go through Serbia, through the construction of the pipeline, through investments in this regard, we come up with another reason that points us to vote for. Serbia is in a position to improve its strategic position, Serbia is becoming a strategic partner for both Europe and Russia. The supply of this gas is not only for Serbia but for Europe, this is also a European gas arrangement. So it seems to me that, in addition to having its advantages through the fee, the figures of 200m euros are mentioned, instead of paying 60m euros to Hungary for the transit of gas, I want to mention once again, this is both a strategic and a strategic partnership. Therefore, I think it would be important to implement a Article 5 of the Agreement, which speaks about the obligation of both governments to do everything possible for this pipeline to get the status of a trans-European energy network project and, of course, to use all the benefits it brings with it. When it added the possibility of gasification throughout Serbia, Energy and Mining Minister Petar Skundric provided detailed information on how much it is now, and how many opportunities there are when it ends in 2015. When it adds economic and economic importance, i.e. the importance for economic and economic development, and I particularly want to point out that it is the largest capital investment in Serbia, which is something the SPS is very much in favour of and what it will do to make everything real. What does the largest capital investment in Serbia mean? It means that Serbia will work, that Serbia will be built, that it will employ a large number of workers, and that is what it needs most today, and as a result, of course, is a positive consequence, the better life of citizens. For all these reasons that I have mentioned, and I have mentioned only part of the reasons why we are about to vote in favour of this ratification law, I repeat that the parliamentary group of the SPS - Unique Serbia will vote in favour of this law in the day of voting, i.e. for ratification of the co-operation agreement in the gas and oil economy with Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2015	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2016	The Honorable Presidency, the chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, LDP, will vote against this oil and gas agreement immediately. In our opinion, this agreement is a harmful legal business. Harmful legal work is for several reasons, and these reasons are very visible if the list, even if authorized, of this 17-member agreement. I'd separate two parts of this deal, one is a gas deal, and the other is an oil deal. I didn't hear in today's session an overly valid answer to why the package includes both gas and oil arrangements, especially since this oil arrangement is the one that actually complicates the whole situation in connection with this agreement. What's with the complications? There are several reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that this agreement is contrary to the country's positive regulations. Positive regulations are, among other things, the privatisation law and the regulation on the privatisation of energy companies in state property. I remind you that the privatisation law was passed by the previous assembly, that the regulation was passed by the government that signed this agreement. What's this about? Well, we are, above all, the Supreme Legislative Body, and as such, we should respect the laws, otherwise the whole story of parliamentary work. If we are directly breaking the law with this agreement, we are telling citizens that they can do as they please. This is a serious legal job with a foreign country, so we should get serious about whether we're going to violate domestic regulations to do a favor to a foreign country. What is it but a service if we are such a serious company as the NIS we leave behind, its 51% stock control package, so a majority package to a state-owned company, specifically the Russian Federation. We do not actually do privatisation, we only leave the monopoly of the Serbian state to the foreign state – the Russian Federation. So that's the second argument why my party won't vote for this agreement. It seems to me that it is constantly losing sight of one fact that NIS Serbia is actually a Novi Sad oil company, and that was once the property of the AP Vojvodina. Today we leave such a serious company as Naftagas and when we say it's only 51%, it doesn't mean that we with those 49% as a state remain to control what's going to happen to the same team of Naftagas, but because of these control packages, we simply remain without guarantee what happens next to this company. Article 13 of this Agreement is particularly harmful for both Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. In fact, this Article 13 binds Serbia's hands to the tax settlement of its taxes for the next 30 years. If we take the example of Naftagas pumping 600,000 tonnes of oil annually, which at today's market prices would be 350m euros, in this case the correct taxation of the state of Serbia would have a income of 120m euros. In particular, however, the state of Serbia currently charges 3% of the total annual income of Naftagas, which means that it is far less tax than that currently applied in the world, which is from 35% to 55%. So when we leave the control package to the Russian firm, the company, the state-owned firm, we absolutely give up a large portion of the revenue that we can use for our budget, both Serbian and Vojvodjan. If we multiply it by 15, so 120m euros at 15, how much oil there is in Vojvodina, that means we're missing a billion and 800m euros on this issue. I think it's a little too much when, in addition, it takes into account that Naftagas, or NIS, has been donated to Gazprom for 400m euros. We can't interpret this in any other way than as a gift. I don't think any of you would sell your personal property for twice the price it's worth. When we talk about this agreement, we should especially consider the fact that we are becoming energy dependent on a state-owned foreign company. Don't be surprised if one day we get into a situation where some of the gas pipeline's valves are dependent on our government, our choice, or the government's downfall, because what it means is that we tie all our resources to oil and gas to a single company, a state-owned foreign-state firm. This whole job looks like it -- here's one thing for you, and you give me one thing for nothing. I would suggest that this agreement be returned to work and that Naphtagas be excluded from the sale procedure, especially to change the percentage of the fee I was talking about earlier. Only in that case, if we applied that Article 17(3) of this Agreement, this Agreement would have some meaning. It seems to me, to a great extent, that it is burdening and causing great damage to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2017	The word is from Ambassador Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2018	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this item of the agenda is probably one of the most interesting, as some of today's speakers have presented it to history. I expected that in the debate on this item of the agenda we would be much more agreeable and complex with regard to the positive effects that would have the construction of a pipeline or an entire gas-oil agreement. But almost all morning, we heard a dozen remarks and criticisms that were largely unfounded and were mostly malicious. We could hear, among other things, that in the gas-naphtha arrangement, it was not mentioned that the environment would be protected, that environmental protection regulations would be respected, as if all details could be found in one agreement. This is absolutely not possible, because for anything invested by a future company or a customer in Serbia, it will invest on the basis of some permits. Those permits are issued by this State. So this country prescribes how it will be able to invest and what standards it will have to apply to the one who invests. So it absolutely doesn't say that standards won't be respected. It will be respected as much as this country requires of anyone who invests. It has been said here all along that this is a shameful agreement and that the state will be damaged by the construction of a pipeline in Serbia and that NIS will be sold to the Russians, or a majority package sold to the Russians. It absolutely doesn't stand and those qualifications are more than false. What's the harm in that? Is it harmful that the pipeline will be built, which will make the investment more than two billion euros, which will give the job in this project tens of thousands of our citizens, and we know that the job in Serbia is something that is most necessary? Is it harmful that our construction operation will be employed, that the whole of Serbia will be able to be gassed, that all our citizens can use gas as the primary energy and that Serbia will thus become a gas hub and in some way a gas leader or energy leader in this region? It is obvious that all of these are positive effects and that there are not even a shred of negative effects, which indirectly says that all the time in previous discussions there was one malicious tendency to disabling this gas-naphtha agreement in some way and to indirectly suggest that it is harmful to Serbia and to be torn down. The special benefits of the gas-naphtha agreement concern Serbia's strategic energy security for more than 50 or 100 years. By passing the pipeline through Serbia, Serbia will be completely energy independent and will have enough energy for more than 50 years. If we take into account that all our coal energy reserves are estimated to be barely 40 to 50 years today and that there is no alternative after this country's energy supply, it is clear that this is one of the best alternatives, i.e. gas pipeline and gas supply to Serbia, is undoubtedly a major advantage. The claim that as much energy as we have, we're going to be able to get is perhaps accurate at this point, if we consider the fact that these energies can be bought freely on the market at this point, but the question is, what will be 20, 30 or 50 years from now, when these energys are not enough or there are not enough to buy as much as they need each country. In this way we are guaranteed that we will have enough energy and are fully in this sense positive effects. Construction of gas power plants and the possibility for investors to enter Serbia, as they have unlimited amounts of gas as raw materials in their production, is a special benefit for the agreement. The fees mentioned here, of course, are a very clear and visible thing and transit fees, so they are called after all, they should belong to this country because it is a transit country, so Serbia will make that money in cascade, not Russia, as it has been hardened here. The reduction of air pollution in terms of gas use as an energy of the 21st century or a green energy, of course, is something that should not be specifically talked about and wasted. The special weight of this agreement also gives the fact that Serbia is becoming a strategically important, geopolitically important energy country. Just imagine the fact that this pipeline could have happened to have been built before 99. Would anyone dare bomb Serbia at that time, and so much gas and gas would pass through Serbia, supplying all of Western Europe. I'm sure he wouldn't. All of this, therefore, is in support of the much greater benefits of such an agreement than damage. Surely in one agreement between the two countries there are always good and bad sides, but incomparably more positive effects than such an agreement there is Serbia and in this sense there should not be too much dilemma whether this agreement will be adopted or not. However, what the predecessors mentioned here must also be highlighted, one political dimension of this agreement. What exactly is this about? It is constantly said in the debate on this agreement that there is some political background of this agreement. Surely in a contract between the two countries, an agreement between the two countries must have some part of the policy behind it. It is especially important for us to make this agreement with a world power and it is certainly positive for this country. The political effect of this agreement is that we will send a message to all investors from Russia, and Russia is a country that has, in the past 10 or 15 years, one of the largest natural growth in Europe and the largest increase in national income per capita in the past 15 years. So these effects that would come from sending such positive messages to Russian and Russian investors who are related to Russia would be really great. However, there is one negative political effect in this agreement that has been said very little today, which is that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dinkic, mentions in the public all along that this agreement is not good and that it will review this agreement, or it will affect the change of its provisions, which indirectly sends a message to the Russian side that there may be problems here and could be the destruction of this agreement. That would really be inadmissible for this country, and it would be inexplicable damage. It's obvious what this is all about. If all foreign banks, coming from Germany, Italy, France, Greece, were able to get express work permits in Serbia, and that the Russian banks had not been able to get it for several years, only this year have they been able to obtain a work permit, it clearly speaks of what interests the country's economy is in charge of. It is even worse that Mr Dinkic keeps repeating it, and his coalition partner DS is absolutely not advertising on this issue. What's hidden behind a statement like this can only be imagined. Mr Tadic did not speak with any of his statements on whether he agrees with Minister Dinkic's statements and whether he is behind it. If it is behind this, then the whole thing is hypocritical and the signing of the agreement, with the presence of the president of the state of Tadic, and now the silence of his Deputy Prime Minister's intention to bring this agreement down, is absolutely incompatible with each other and can only give a hint of what will happen in the future period. I'm afraid that when we ratify this agreement to avoid some unforeseen situation that whoever's head of the negotiating team, and that's another confusing fact, that most of the current government made by DS appoints Minister Dinkic as head of the negotiating team, knowing in advance that he does everything to bring this agreement down. Why he's tearing this deal apart. It is likely that there are other interests and other lobbys behind the collapse of the agreement, perhaps those lobbys that are interested in buying NIS for some other money, those lobbys that have pushed that after two years of the previous assessment of Mary Lynch and Raiffeisen's investment to be a new assessment of the Deloit Yush, and it is known who is represented by the Deloith and the shower and whose interests. Maybe it's those people who want to push Nabucco directly into Europe before the South Blue Stream, whether it's the Deputy Prime Minister or not, it's going to show up real quick. In this way, I would like to warn the ruling coalition not to play with these things and that if they have already said publicly that they want to ratify this agreement, that they will apply it in practice. The DSS and the parliamentary group and its MPs will support this agreement because it is good for Serbia, because it guarantees energy stability, because it guarantees Serbia's strategic position and strategic importance, because it guarantees that there will be much more investment in this country, because it guarantees that our economy will be able to be significantly more competitive and that it will be able to fight in the harsh European market.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2019	The people's MPs, Zoran Ostojic, who first has a word after him, pointed out the violations of the Rules of Procedure, the MP of the people, Nikola Novakovic, and Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2020	Dear Presidency, Honored Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 104. Again, the release of incorrect data, which offends the dignity of the Assembly, because citizens who look at us can think it's true, so tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, when everything is different, that we all be responsible as MPs. Therefore, it is necessary to order false things. He says my distinguished predecessor can't get into the agreement, and that's about protecting the environment, I guess that means we have regulations, we're giving licenses, so we're gonna have to squeeze the Russian state-owned company into respecting some of the future regulations that come out of the SAA, which we hope to ratify very quickly. Well, it's not like that. Not to mention, it is just mentioned in Article 11, where the Serbian side for the implementation of the project referred to in Article 1 of this Agreement provides for: the allocation of land parcels that meet the objectives, conditions and realization of the project mentioned and the unrevocable allocation, means there is no going back, compared to those land parcels, etc., their secure and stable energy security, the allocation of a favourable customs and tax regime. So it's a good customs and tax policy. And we still give them, besides NIS, besides that income from the natural rent that Mrs Popovic calculated for 15 years as much as there are supplies, and we give them this. The last position of that Article 11 says - the retention of the period until the completion of the reconstruction and modernisation of the NIS technology complex, valid quality requirements, products from the processing of oil produced. So now the valid ones can't be stricter. It says, that means Panchevo doesn't have a chance to breathe, so that means that everything that the current NIS technology-adhesive plant is being thrown out to the Russians is being allowed to continue. Why? Because this second one is expensive. So, we also give at every step, including here, environmental pollution costs, again, to the taxpayers of Serbia. That's the fact that the LDP is justified, and we're going to come up with these lobbies and political lobbies, because it's just amazing how someone stands for something that's so obvious, historically scandalous, against the interests of this country. And for those who prefer to talk about the national interest, I guess the state's interest is before national and if something is against the state's interest, it's probably against Serbian interest. So don't use this payphone to get data, stories, figures. Because, gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Djelic, all of what the opposition stands for as pluses here could have been written in an explanation. Which doesn't say it in an explanation. It doesn't say. The explanation is a smut and about the most important reason to pass this law, it does, because the Russians want to ratify it, and the Russians want the agreement. It's nice that he wants to. And we want gas, we want oil, but all that's being said, it's not written here, and it says something that's very scary, and what the LDP is going to point to until they get the answers that the head of our parliamentary group has asked for from the respected ministers present here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2021	The word is by MP Nikola Novakovic, noting the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and after that, MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2022	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising Article 104. Dear colleague Lapčević, I point out that this Rules of Procedure allows when you stick to the subject and talk about a point on the agenda, freely, as well as any other MP, you can speak nonsense, but you must not tell the truth. Neither is the G17 Plus parliamentary group, nor are G17 Plus MPs, nor is Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Regional Development against this agreement. That is absolutely not true, and I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, and also because of you, to learn something. So, with such a step, by bringing out such untruths, the weak capacity of the negotiating role, the commission, the negotiating team established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the fact that it is headed by Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dinkic, the minister responsible for the economy, is a logical consequence. I think Mr. Skundric is a member of that committee, and it's not a secret together. This agreement is just opening the door for further negotiation and I don't see that there's anything personal, suspicious and controversial about it. If it is disputed, it can only be the government's decision to form a negotiating team to implement such an agreement. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2023	The word is a folk letter from Natasa Micic, followed by the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, in relation to Article 194, on the representation of the Government in the Assembly. What we all agree on is the fact that this is a strategically important agreement, both in economic and political terms. It is truly inadmissible and incomprehensible that this session is not attended by the prime minister. This continues with one bad practice introduced by previous Prime Minister Kostunica, and has witnesses, Mrs Comic, at least we, if no one else, remember that it could have looked different. In addition, it would be good to have Mr. Vuk Jeremic here as well, to explain to us why we allowed, by allowing the majority participation of the Russian Federation and, in that case, we are unique, other countries did not allow ourselves to explain why we allowed ourselves to be in this vassal relationship. Also, since it has already been mentioned, it would be good for the Minister of Economy, Mr Dinkic, to be present here, I think that he would best clarify the economic justification, i.e. the adverse consequences of this agreement, and I think it would be particularly good to explain to us that this NIS sale will affect the value of the free campaign he has so much in the election campaign. Furthermore, I am advertising a member of 83 who says that no inclusion in the agenda of acts that are not in accordance with the Constitution and the law is allowed. So this agreement is not in line with the privatisation law, and that's quite clear. We are all witnessing today that in the 21st century, we are selling a strategic company through a public settlement, as if it were done in the market. I have already reminded myself today of a different example, when, for far less value, the public condemned the signatories of this agreement for the job of importing Swedish locomotives that was done without the publication of the tender, and this is an incomparably worse thing. The comparisons for 400 million, as it is said to be sold, are really humiliating when you take into account NIS property, two refineries, a natural wealth representing 20% of our domestic needs, 4% of concessions in Angola, a business space, 10,000 m2 of sales space, 497 gas stations, 11 hotels, motels, NIS is the owner of the largest number of tanks in the Balkans, and when you compare it with the prices of 360 million for department stores or 320 million for VIP mobile phone, or, as is now mentioned, the FK Star is estimated at around 500 million, then I really don't know what we are discussing here and why we are brought into a position to donate, to the harm of our citizens, our property. On the other hand, the gas arrangement is bad, along with the sale of NIS, which is determined by Article 9 of this Agreement, because in addition to bringing us into this vasal position, and it is not good to be dependent on only one supplier, so if you want, it can be used for political purposes, we had an example of Ukraine. This gas deal is also bad because there is not one single member of this agreement that you have submitted to us that guarantees something to our country. So all the provisions concern the guarantee of the state of the Russian Federation, and that's the provision of land, and a completely unobstructed transition flow and all other guarantees are given only to the Russian Federation. The question arises, given that the conclusion of the agreement has violated the Privatisation Act and the Regulation on Privatisation of Energy Enterprises, the question is which guarantees us that the Russian Federation will respect other laws, such as environmental laws, such as public procurement laws, under which our businesses have the right to raise their price by 20% more than others. There's absolutely no guarantee. Therefore, the LDP cannot vote and it seems to me that we do not understand each other, as if we speak in different languages, we in Serbian and you in Russian. We have nothing against the Russian Federation's foreign contractor, we just think it could have been concluded a far better gas deal, and I think it's deeply wrong that they're not respected laws and that NIS is actually bowing to the Russians for nothing. Therefore, the LDP will not vote for this ratification law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2025	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was noted by MP Milan Lapčević, and after him, according to the list reported for discussion on the agenda, MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2026	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104, dignity of the National Assembly, so I suppose all MPs, and that means mine. The speaker, Mr. Novakovic, put out here a pretty rough qualification to say stupid things and that I need something to science from him with a pretty strong tone, which you were obliged to warn him about. So whether I'm talking nonsense or not, they're talking about it in the paper. I did not invent Mr Dinkic's statement and statement all the time in the paper, that he would be an obstacle to such an agreement, that he would reconsider and that he would oppose such intentions. It is indirectly said that they will try to bring the agreement down. So, I'm just passing on what was written in the paper. On the other hand, if two relevant capital assessment houses Rajfazen Investment and Mary Lynch two years ago assessed NIS and they were similar until then, how suddenly one new valuation house was introduced to evaluate NIS again, two years ago twice or three times the NIS value. Is that an accident or intentional thing? That's all indications, I'm not saying anything about it being nailed, but time will show who's right here and what their intentions are. I'm afraid I'm right, but in any case, I think this assembly will have the strength to bring and ratify this agreement to its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2027	The breach of the Rules of Procedure stands out, MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2028	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, we cannot conduct such a debate. We personally do not have any dilemma in your willingness to sit here and pay the price you must pay as certain representatives of the government in this debate, but let's say the predecessor, and you can imagine how all of this is happening to the citizens of Serbia, making one mistake that can then affect the definition of a clear attitude of our society to what we are doing as parliament. You are obliged, Mr. Djelic, to go out and say that the bookkeeping value of NIS has been established, that the accounting value has been determined by the Rajfazen Auditor's House or Mary Lynch, they've been doing it together, now it's market value. What makes a big misunderstanding with all of ours is to answer the question why such an agreement is offered to our parliament for ratification and the fact is that the state of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, Kostunica's government in 2005 established a strategy for our country's energy development. In line with the strategy, Mary Lynch and Rajfazen hired them to implement that policy that the government agreed on, a policy that was led by some public debate in professional circles, a policy that was debated, calculated, a policy that came to the conclusion that no majority action should be privatised in Serbia's energy sector because the state must maintain control. The state must do what has been done in the event of Telekom's privatisation. Why? Today Telekom is one of our strongest companies, regional leader in the field of communication. If Milosevic had acted like Kostunica, it would not have been so today. We told you we'd lynched the 1997 privatisation, and we have reason to do so. But what was done then, it is very high compared to the standards that are devastatingly low in this NIS privatisation and in the gas agreement that is being made with the Russian Federation. It's not a questionable relationship with the idea that we need to develop co-operation with those with whom we can develop, but the character of that cooperation, the way it's being realized, is what's wrong. In the background of all this is politics, one bad policy must not be paid by such an energy agreement, and that is what has been done. The agreement was signed in the Kremlin three or four days before the presidential runoff. This agreement in the previous parliamentary campaign was one of the crown arguments of the party of then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and we are therefore distracting you, we do not doubt your intention to do something good for the country, there is no guarantee in this agreement that there will be an increase in the level of environmental protection of our citizens, and it is very low today, not because someone wants it, but that our opportunities are at this moment. There's not a single investment center in this agreement we're talking about. There's nothing in this agreement from those gas power plants Mr. Ilic mentioned to us. He signed his agreement today in his discussion, said there was another agreement, and where is it? Why isn't he here in parliament, why isn't he the Prime Minister here? It might be easier for us to draw some conclusions. Four hundred million is unacceptable. There's no social program. Citizens were promised 1,000 euros per share. How this agreement affects that promise. The state can't promise anything on the one hand, and on the other hand, its own words to step on. We've passed the law on that. Do you remember when we passed the law on free share action, we voted on it? Now we will vote against what we adopted a year ago. Meanwhile, five million people stood in front of some counter and waited in line. It will not be only Minister of Economy Mladjan Dinkic, then, will be responsible for any MP of those 220 or 230 who will vote in favour of Serbia's citizens' robbery. It's great that we're making deals with the Russians. Let's do it the way the Greeks and the Bulgarians did it. We talk about that master gas pipeline all the time. It's not true that it's the only pipeline that comes through here. There's a second leg of that pipeline. We signed an agreement with the EU. We have shown our willingness to participate in the EU's Nabucco pipeline project. There are alternative developments in energy that might be more consistent with our interests. We are asking nothing more of you than to enable in Serbia what the authorities in Russia allow for the citizens of Russia. I don't know if you've noticed that Putin is now engaged in the collapse of established monopolies. I don't know if you're following up on the world's satellite TV debates about the partnership between the Teumen oil mix and British oil. What is happening today in Serbia is no longer in Europe and Russia is not responsible for it, but those who sought a foothold in Moscow for their failed policy that could no longer come across support in Serbia itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2029	The word is made by MP Nenad Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2030	Just for a little while. This is a very complex arrangement, I'll repeat it again, the gas-naphtha arrangement. I want to repeat, not only should it be based on NIS prices, but on the integrity of this gas and oil arrangement, which, I repeat, brings Serbia in the next 30, 40 years huge income from both gas transport and foreign direct investment and increases investment ratings. I just want to say that we are proud that during the previous government, which was chaired by Prime Minister Kostunica, this agreement has been signed, and we will vote for its ratification. Just to say for the Nabucco account, Nabucco does not go through Serbia, nor should it ever have, I said in the previous part of the session, Nabucco goes from Bulgaria through Romania, Hungary, to Austria, to the largest gas hub in Europe, the city of Baumgarten. Nabucco should never have gone through Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2031	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2032	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did not understand me, Mr Popovic, which became a rule in our work today. Mr Popovic, no one said Nabucco would go through Serbia. I said that we have signed a contract with the EU, that the EU is developing alternative forms in energy with other countries, alternative forms of co-operation with other countries that also have this kind of natural wealth available to the Russian Federation. Is that right? Have we signed an agreement with the EU? Have we taken any obligations by that signature? Yes, we did. Do these obligations bind us as a state? Yeah, they do. Do they bind Russia, to which we left the infrastructure that we were counting on when we signed that agreement? They don't commit. We talk all the time. Did we agree that NIS is going into a state of devastation? So I understand, but on the other hand, there's some value that's going to compensate for the fact that we're selling something for 400 million. Why don't you tell us exactly what that value is? What's it worth to this company that's being founded? This company with 51% of the Russian Federation, i.e. Gazprom, and 49% of Serbia, how much is this company worth? If it's worth three billion, then you have a good argument for your thesis, but we don't know what the founding capital is. This is the government's representatives. Let's hear it. Your government. You've discovered that Russia exists in 2006. I repeat, this is where your government fell apart, and you shut down Nebojsa Covic from the 2005 coalition. Do you remember that? At the time, the topic was just to define the country's energy strategy. Then you said there was no majority privatisation in the energy sector. A year after that, you discovered that there was gas and oil in Russia. During the night, you pushed the government's years of work, professional services, advisors aside and through members of the cabinet of the Prime Minister made this arrangement with the Russian Federation. That's what this is about. That's not how you do it. Can we know who was the legal and financial advisor in this business? The one that fell and was rejected were Mary Lynch and Raiffeisen Bank. Who was the legal advisor in this business? Who was the financial advisor? On the Russian side, it was Mary Lynch, so the strongest financial house for that kind of work, and Fresh and Fields. Who was the legal adviser to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Was it Dejan Mihajlov or was it Aleksandar Nikitovic? Let them agree which of them was right and who was for finance. Both are pointless, anti-constitutional, illegal, economically unacceptable. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2033	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was noted by MP Milan Lapcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2034	Madam Chairman, there are really flat-rates and untrues again. I don't know what kind of agreement the social agenda contains. I haven't heard that before. Or clauses and details of environmental protection. I guess the state prescribes what level of environmental protection they will respect when issuing permits for some work. Absolutely an argument that doesn't stand. And I really don't understand what amount of energy is being spent to prove something to be unsuccessful or failed, or bad for this country. There are arguments that we are not equal in this business and that the same arches are not respected. How does no one mention in the discussion of stabilisation and accession the different arches applied by the European Union towards Serbia and other countries? How come you didn't mind, and now this is bothering you? The policy of double performances here and different interpretations absolutely speaks of your inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2035	The word is made by MP Nenad Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2036	Four hundred million euros for the oil industry of Serbia and 500m euros as investments in the oil industry of Serbia are at the book value of 51%, what is the accounting value, at the date of 1 January 2007, when it was objected. Since the accounting value was created, it seems to me, if I am not mistaken in 2006, that it was made precisely, on a proposal by Mary Linca, according to the data given by the Deloit shower and that accounting value is also entered in the company register in the Republic of Serbia. So this is really about 51% of the book value. I will never agree that 400m euros, plus a minimum of 500m euros, is an investment, a failure, I think it's a very real price, and within the framework of the complex, I think that Serbia has done a fantastic job, and that will show the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2037	The word of the People's Messenger is John Palalic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2038	The Honorable Chairman, here during this discussion we heard one thing that really needs to be discussed. Maybe it's actually the backdrop of this whole debate today. So, we heard that Serbia should strongly stand behind an idea of a pipeline project that should not pass through its territory, to challenge and bring down an agreement on a gas-naphtha arrangement with the Russian Federation, where part of the South Stream pipeline should pass through Serbia. It is really hard to understand that a project known as Nabucco, which had no touch points in any idea of going through Serbia, is being discussed here. There's been a discussion here today, to draw attention to the NIS price debate. In fact, the background of the whole story is that the South Stream, in all possible ways, bypass Serbia and that the whole arrangement is agreed or complicated and in all possible ways, this competitive Nabucco project, is in trouble. We just heard it now. After all day of debate, the Nabucco project is mentioned, which has nothing to do with Serbia. That's the whole story. A pipeline through Serbia not to pass, the South Stream not to pass and to challenge a gas-naphtha arrangement over the price of NIS. Of course, we should discuss it, but let's open up the cards with that honest story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2039	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2040	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, Mr. Palalic, are constantly making extra sense of what we have in our discussions. With these conspiracy theories, we'd better break up as soon as possible. We are discussing a document in front of the MPs. Article 1 of this Agreement, Article 2, says the following -- under the master's gas system in the construction of the Russian Federation through the Black Sea and the territory of third countries and the Republic of Serbia, for the transit and delivery of natural gas to other countries of Europe is foreseen by construction on the territory of the Republic of Serbia of the pipeline system. So no one's talking about the master's pipeline. It's about the gas system. That's the first fact. Another fact, we don't mind if the pipeline goes through Serbia, we'd like that to happen, but we're asking you why you're doing it this way. We ask you this question because we doubt the ability of the government of Vojislav Kostunica to protect the adequate interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this business, because the government at the same time decided to support the concept of minority privatisation in the energy strategy of our country and, in parallel with that decision called the energy strategy, made another decision that is directly contrary to the strategy. Is that weird for Vojislav Kostunica's politics? It's not. It's always been Vojislav Kostunica's policy. But we're asking you for facts. Stop conspiracy theories. I don't have companies in Russia, Mr Popovic has companies in Russia. I live here in Serbia. My office doesn't have lobbyists from Russian companies sitting in Kostunica's office. I didn't sign agreements in Washington, D.C., or Brussels, or the Kremlin, but Vojislav Kostunica, of Ahtisaari, received the award of statesman of the year, to then sacrifice the interests of our society several years later, asking that we in Ahtisaari see what does not exist and that he himself was not ready to see when Ahtisaari answered him. So instead of this kind of debate, just facts and nothing else. This country has signed and made a commitment. She signed a contract with the European Union and then let this country say that this contract no longer obliges her. We don't mind. Let the country say that behind this agreement, which is now due to be ratified by parliament, an affirmation of those initiatives that contribute to the removal of the moratorium for the construction of nuclear power plants in Serbia is needed. Is that gonna happen in a year or two or three? We think so. We've won an energy minister's position as lobbyist for one such idea. Then it should be put as a map here on our table, so say okay, we're entering a new era. Are there nuclear power plants around us? Yes, there are. Do we need energy? Yes, it is. Let's talk about it. Let's say what this Parliament can do to apply that member of the Agreement in which we see the possibility of things getting better. The Bulgarian government has been negotiating with the Russians all night to sign the agreement as it was at dawn, in line with the interests of Bulgarian citizens. We want it for the citizens of Serbia, and gas and oil. We've had a problem with that so far, but first of all, because we didn't have any money. When someone enters the Serbian market and takes up the position that the Serbian state had so far, and that is what we are doing now, then we are looking for guarantees that someone will feel these same obligations to the citizens of Serbia, as it must have felt and felt the Serbian state itself, that is, that the Russian state will not distinguish between the interests of its citizens and the interests of Serbian citizens. It's very hard to believe in that kind of relationship by word. You need agreements. There's no such thing in this agreement, and that's what we have to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2041	The word has a representative of the Serbian government, Minister Petar Skundric. An authorised promoter and a representative gets a word when he asks. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2042	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where the conspiracy theories began. I wouldn't say this because of Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, I'm saying this for the Serbian public. You know, these are heavy accusations, Mr. Jovanovic, that you say to any Serbian government minister that he lobbys someone's state interests without a single shred of evidence. You are the country's best strategic development project to assess that the front of the former government or the work of the ministers is this or this entire government. Serbia is now given an opportunity, and if it does not take advantage of it, it will no longer have it. When has this House discussed other projects of a similar character that you call upon here? When did Serbia sign this obligation regarding another project? This has given MPs an opportunity to assess whether this project is truly of national and state interest. Could this project allow the Republic of Serbia to enter a new development cycle in the next 20, 30 or 50 years? Projects are mentioned that have not taken Serbia into consideration as a country that could be involved in the implementation of these projects. Here we are talking about possible benefits or potentials of this project, which should be realised by contracts related to this agreement, but there is also a chance that the energy potential of this agreement will turn into the most profitable projects this country can have. I don't think it really makes any sense. I don't want to go from inaccuracy to my profession to other things. Serbia needs to know that you are trying, and here I am not challenging you, this pay phone to get at everything you can get a certain political point. But, please, and I ask that you do not abuse a pay phone with falseness, which have insiders and for other pursuits of certain activities. You claim, Mr. Jovanovic, that I am an expert in textile technology, and I am a chemical technologist of organic chemical technology, which primarily belongs to oil and gas, and then I focus on fibre technology, which is not textile technology, but the best organic chemical technology, it works. Therefore, I think pointless disputes are tied up in this way as it is tried. The previous government launched and initialled a specific project. We were given the opportunity to accept it or not to accept it. I believe, under full responsibility, that a better project is not presently in Serbia and that this project is the basis for a faster rebirth, the overall rebirth of the Republic of Serbia. And if he could have done better, he could have done better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2043	The word is by MP Slobodan Maras, advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2044	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members 101 and 104. I see what we've been saying today, especially the DSS MPs obviously didn't understand what we're talking about. It is interesting, however, that they are the ones who defend this agreement the most. No one from the ruling coalition, except for one or two cases, has been able to come out here and say a word to defend this agreement. It is also very interesting that Mr. Skundric has just now responded and for the first time addressed us during this debate. Not a single time like we of the opposition tried, specifically from the LDP, to point out all the failures of this agreement, not one single time did he deign to explain himself to us, to clarify and try to get us on the right track. For the first time, however, he reacted when he himself was personally called. I think it's incorrect, first of all, for the MPs, and I think that you could have spoken to us in some way earlier and made things clear to us. I'd like to talk to my colleagues from the DSS, Mr. Lapcevic, you all the time, and that's important for the Serbian citizens to hear, mention some things about this deal they don't write. So all the time you've been calling for advantages in this agreement that no letter exists in this agreement. I think it's extremely incorrect. Mr Popovic, with all due respect and respect for what you do, at least as a private, I am deeply convinced that you would not sell any of your companies in this way, at book value, but would try to achieve market value and make as much money as possible. So don't convince us that these 400m euros, you mentioned it 15 times today, a real success. No, this is a disaster. NIS isn't worth that much, it's worth a lot more. The market value was established by Deloitte & touche, over two billion. It's a little 400 million euros. Is that a lot when you take the gas deal you're talking about? It's already another topic, we don't think it's, that it's a mistake. Mr. Palalic, you obviously didn't understand what we're saying when it comes to Nabucco. So we're saying that Nabucco was signed by Minister Mr. Palalic of our ranks, Mr. Naumov, in 2006 in Bucharest. That's how we took one obligation and that obligation and today stands. We're asking if she's still in place? So we're not saying that we should respect Nabucco without this agreement being worth anything. We are saying that we must respect Nabucco, and this agreement whether or not it works will be a very quick opportunity to see it if you vote it. So this agreement is not good for the Republic of Serbia, it is not good for the interests of its citizens because they are not protected in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2045	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2046	There are two projects in Europe today, only two major projects. One is the North Stream, the other is the South Stream. The North Stream is the transport of gas from Russia through the Baltic Sea to Germany. Germany rated the North Stream fantastic. Participants are on the Russian side of Gazprom 50% and 50% are two German companies. The chairman of the North Stream Management Board is Mr. Schroeder, the former prime minister of Germany, who also said that, besides the North Stream, the best thing that is happening in Europe is South Stream. To answer to Mr Jovanovic, when the strategy was made there was no saying that the South Stream would go through Serbia. That's what's happened in the last few years. Secondly, I must say that it is remarkable for Serbia that at that time, when a decision was made where the South Stream would go, Prime Minister Kostunica was at the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia and I must point out thanks to the excellent relations between the DSS and the Single Russia, on the one hand, that it had some effect on the determination of the course. We can be overjoyed today for the next five generations that we have been given the opportunity for one of the two largest European energy projects to pass through Serbia today. So I can only say about this expertise and everything that this contract has been extremely negotiated, we have had great support from the Russian Federation and we need to be immeasurably grateful to them because the real results of this energy venture will only be seen. I would add to my esteemed colleague, Marash, also with all due respect, we may always talk about various things, and you're saying again that the price for NIS is 400m euros, and for the 15th time I repeat that this is a gas-naphtha arrangement, where we should probably evaluate the total potential that this brings. I tried in my presentation today, some did not attend, to show all the elements, how much it would bring to Serbia. Probably dozens and dozens of billions over the next 30 to 40 years. The best Serbian economic arrangement Serbia has signed in the last 40 years. To answer to Mr Jovanovic, yes, I have companies in Russia, I also have many in the European Union, and I have the greatest co-operation with companies in the European Union in the Russian Federation and China market.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2047	National MP Zarko Korac, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, was followed by the violation of the Rules of Procedure, said MP Dusan Bajatovic, then MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and then MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2048	I would like to remind, Madam Vice President, the honourable MPs, that we are speaking here in the shadow of a major failed project and I am not going to get into the way it happened at all, it is the termination of the concession agreement for the highway, and today the government has received a proposal to terminate the concession that it has rejected. If things stay the way they are, it means long-term court proceedings with the concessionaire, because apparently the concessionaire wanted to take out all his expenses, and some of which we'll hear about in the years to come. In other words, we already have one reminder of what it means when a contract is made that for various reasons, which I'm really not going to go into because it's not the subject of this conversation, it's not done properly. As for what's been said here that this contract, Mr Popovic, is the result of a good relationship between the two political parties, it really has nothing to do with reality. This came primarily for two reasons, if we talk about natural gas, which is estimated to be Europe's natural gas needs growing 2.5% annually and by 2030 Europe will need 630 billion cubic metres of gas. Secondly, Mr Popovic, this is crucial in the story, which took place in January 2005 in a trade war between Ukraine and Russia. Russia shut down the pipeline and Europe remained in January and in part gas-free winter, and this strategically underlined Europe's need to supply gas on another side. One more thing to respected experts, I'm not an expert, but I've sat down enough, read and talked to people, don't chase two things, one is Russian natural gas, and the other is natural gas from Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, which should come and Europe try not to be politically dependent on Russia, to get gas, which is a very complicated story, from these countries, or Caspian swimming pool. Serbia became attractive at the moment when Europe wished it had one alternative way of supplying natural gas. No political relations, no Kosovo crisis, no good relations are responsible for it, it's a simple reality. It is true that an agreement should be made with Russia, it is true that a pipeline through Serbia is a great thing, it is not at all slow and it is not disputed to have an energy agreement and an oil deal with the country that has the world's largest oil reserves. Only an irresponsible man would say that's not true. What we're discussing is the character of the agreement and there really shouldn't be any doubt about it. Of course I'm not lobbying for any company, I've already declared that we should have an agreement with Russia. What bothers us or at least me personally is how this agreement was reached. Of course, it's about the price, we don't know how this assessment came about, and it's crucial that Russia really assumes that this alternative route of Nabucco will really pass through Serbia and, most importantly, at what capacity? Is it just a little short, as they say, a stream, or is it a freeway? This would largely define my relationship to the whole agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2049	Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2050	I reported to article 100 because I don't think it really makes any sense anymore what we're hearing from some of our colleagues and don't get angry, but you want to cloud the essence of this agreement. I feel a personal obligation and the obligation of the man someone voted for. Let's try to look at this whole story essentially. So there's no Nabucco, and there's no Nabucco, when will there be? Does Serbia have time to wait for this whole story? The government's insistent representatives explain to you that we have yet to talk, and now I hear suspicion, this is the answer to your question, Mr. Koraq, is this the highway direction? Yes, it is. It says in capacity, Mr. Jovanovic, if you knew what 10 billion, 20 billion, you'd know it was master's water, it couldn't be anything else. The press is writing, look at these numbers, the capacity, the writing, math is an exact science. If because of some other mathematics your suspicion is expressed, then that's another problem. So there's no discussion here about it, only if we want to disabling the public. The highway pipeline, the only big pipe in this region, is going through Serbia and there's a valve. Once again to distinguish whether there are policies here, whether there is Serbian political interest and whether there is Russian political interest? Yeah, and what's so controversial about that? What's the point? What's the point? We've been listening here the whole time - we've taken some commitments. The distinguished Professor Petar Skundric comes out and says he has no commitments under it. We're still talking, and I'm asking the question again: if you're talking about Nabucco and you're saying that this agreement threatens sovereignty, then I'm asking, is 30 billionths of this country's debt to Western capital? I'm more prone to capital than some other capital, so you don't get me wrong, whether it's a threat to sovereignty, whether everything has to be based on the IMF and the World Bank, or maybe we can relax access to different types of capital and reduce political and any other pressure on our country. There are only two serious projects at this point, and they assure you, and those who deal with it through business and people who are familiar with the whole situation, there are experts from the Ministry -- why are we confusing the public? There are only two projects that are in the design phase. Ilic told you today that the route is also defined. So, in technical preparation, it's moving away. We can start as long as next year we can do the whole project. Why do we want to disabling it? (President: Time. Thank you. One more sentence. Please understand, in general, this project not only brings enough money, this is a development project, it binds to itself the mass of other things. In my previous address, I tried to say that, along with things that are related to the EPS, it's about 15 billion. In the next four years, maybe five. Doesn't anybody want that? We owe it to someone there to respect that Nabucco and wait 10 years for it. In that Nabucco project, we are the side pipe. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. So, an absolute commitment to this agreement, and how good it is, will show time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2051	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Ostojić, then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2052	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I have reported in accordance with Article 100. I was misjudged by Minister Skundric on a number of grounds. Mr. Skundrich, I was just quoting the name of the cathedral where you teach. I took that name off the college site where you're a professor and I didn't want to disrespect you. It's called the Department of Textile Engineering. Am I right or wrong? If I've made a mistake, I apologize, but it wasn't intended to degrade your competence, that at all what we're discussing today you're participating as an equal talker. On the contrary, I think that, taking over as minister, you have become more obliged to the citizens of Serbia than you do to yourselves. It is bad that you were involved in the discussion when I said that you, in the style of some former ministers, appeared as a man who initiated the construction of a nuclear power plant in Serbia and in statements you said that in fact at the first meeting with other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you opened the issue of nuclear power plants in our society. All right, that's a fact, if it's not true, I'm also sorry. That's something I read in the paper as your statement. What is much more serious is the question of where the government, parliament, where the state has committed itself in a way that would bring this into conflict with the commitments it has made through this agreement. I'll say, through the SAA, Article 109. The SSP prescribes the principles of the so-called SSP. policy of co-operation in the field of energy. I'm sure Mr. Djelic knows what this is about. This co-operation must be based on the principles laid down by the Energy Community Treaty and the Energy Charter. Russia doesn't want to accept that charter. We, as a state, voted in favour of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, took on the commitments undertaken by other EU member states, but we are not in a position to fulfil these obligations, because we are not the owners of an oil and gas economy, but rather a company owned by the Russian Federation. Which way will we order this company, which is created and in which the right to manage has the Russian Federation, to respect what the obligations of the Republic of Serbia are. It's collapsing. This needs to be cleared out in a clear way. There's so much talk about Nabucco. The Minister of Energy signed and made some commitments. Now you're saying it doesn't matter. Now you've performed through the position of a person who's seen and understood both Krup and that of Western capital. We are voting for an agreement in which none of what advocates of this kind speak, regardless of whether they come from the DSS, the SPS, Democrats mostly do not participate in the discussion. But within the government itself, there are many misunderstandings. We expect someone from the government to show up who will tell us - okay, the price of this agreement is paid by the undervalued amount the Russian Federation will give for NIS. (President: Time. ) The value is obtained through the gas arrangement. The gas arrangement has a highway route through Serbia, such a level of investment in that period, a plant in Novi Sad, a plant in Nis, so many jobs, this social programme, that environmental protection, then it's clear. We discussed the SAA yesterday, hundreds of pages. This agreement, 17 members of the agreement, two members of the law, is the difference. That is why and because of the facts that we say, the wrong energy strategy or the strategy that the government gave up, the government that defined, the signing of the Nabucco agreement and the participation in the project in 2006, it seems to me that it was done in December in the election campaign, it is too contradictory to be able to go beyond that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2053	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2054	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, violation of Article 104, dignity of the Assembly. Essentially, during this debate, one thing that I don't know is how many Serbian citizens are looking at us. We are in favour of a gas agreement, we from the LDP want the gas to pass, but we are specifically talking about this agreement, unfortunately to be more precise, about the Russian version, but we are using the Serbian version, because only the Russian version is valid and we are asking the ministers, not contesting the need for Serbia to have a pipeline. At one point, Mr. Bajatovic says someone wants the pipeline gone, to go somewhere. We pay gas for money, the Russians have the goods, we have the money, same as the Germans, and half the Europe that's being supplied. In order for the Russians to sell gas, that gas has to reach the consumer. There are consumers in Serbia and, God willing, there will be even more. It says here that the capacity is 10 billion cubic meters. Serbia spends the least. If there's gonna be more, why doesn't it say more? All the time you've been defending this agreement, I'm talking about colleagues from the DSS, stories and numbers that don't stand here, not even in the light of the law. I don't see what was controversial about all these fantasies and all these numbers, which Mr Popovic specifically mentioned, with so many zeros, that it didn't explain. Only then would the LDP see how good all this is. But it stays here only on your word, and what it says is not good. We're talking specifically, and you're talking about something that's gonna happen. Who promised you that? Putin Tell Ilic. Ilic says there's a certain route. Where's a certain route? It's not a specific route. Don't be fooled. This is not a 10 billion-dollar highway because Serbia is spending four, six maybe going to Bosnia, maybe it's a highway to the Republika Srpska. 30 enters Bulgaria, one leg goes to Greece, how long does it stay for Serbia? It remains 10, and Bulgaria spends 4-5. I expect Serbia will spend more, maybe six. There's nowhere else to go but BiH. Don't call it a master gas pipeline. It's a stream that separates from the south. Mr. Popovic, I was just expecting you to be mentioned by Schrader. Yes, he signed an agreement with the Russians as Prime Minister. Yes, the North Stream needs Europe and Germany, but after that, he became, behold, the chairman of the company's board of directors. There are people in Germany who think there might be a better deal with the Russians. Do you, with this story, essentially hint at Mr. Kostunica's political future? He was president, you're a big advocate for this agreement, and in the end, what are we going to have? We'll have the chairman of the South Stream Management Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2055	Mr. Bajatovic, then you, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2056	Dear colleagues, it seems the appeal to get serious when we talk about this, no matter who we're rooting for and what ideology we're rooting for, they didn't bear fruit. I've got to relocate with some facts. Mr. Jovanovic, I knew before that Russia had oil and gas, and so did you, but until two years ago we didn't want to find out. It just wasn't state policy. Who should we be mad at? We can be mad at all of us. That's the essence of the whole story. I'm talking about something else again. If you're up to it, if you understand the advantages, and you say you understand, what a highway pipeline means, by capacity, it's certainly a highway, because what it needs to supply is a safe highway, because Bulgarians now have 30 billion cubic metres doesn't mean it won't be 50 tomorrow. (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: Our 50th) No, Mr. Ostović, you don't do what you don't know. That's the point. This is about the next one. We, I want to return you to what the resolute minister of Professor Petar Skundric said, at this point we have an offer that can be realised quickly and with those who have gas, which is the Russian Federation, which wants to make an agreement with us, where the capacity of the pipeline in technical terms will be certainly done so that it far exceeds those ten billion cubic metres. And the agreement says well -- at least ten billion cc's, which means it can't be 20 and 30. You got it. Are we gonna pay for that? Yeah. Russia is a capitalist country, we'll pay. I'll be back around NIS again. We're bringing in that country or that company that owns oil sources, which will bring in some pipes, some pipelines, that will produce together with the Bosnian ship up to 12, 15 or 20 million tons. We have 49% of the property here. Who's gonna pick up a profit from that? Is it appropriate for us to reduce the involvement of other people's companies, the type of OMV, the MOL, the INE, because what did we do? NIS controlled 80% of Serbia's derivative market. He's controlling 30% today. What kind of business policy was that? I think it's bad. Now we have the opportunity to, in cooperation with the Russian Federation, rebuild the NIS, the Panchev refinery first and foremost, train our oil industry, because we have 49% here, to compete with all the oil trade that threatens us here. Here were the polemics of environmental standards. Please understand one thing. Our country prescribes ecological standards. Our country has agencies, commissions, inspections to control it. He can't make a chimney here in Pancheva if there's more sulfur coming out of him than he needs to. I guess it'll be of interest to those same evil Russians that that chimney is working for them, that they have these evaporation controls, that they don't invest in nothing. It's the essence of things. Don't let us blur the whole thing out here. Our country has absolutely enough legal frameworks and mechanisms to keep everything that is controversial and financial arrangements together to the environment under control. What's that story about what the Russians are gonna do? That firm's got a seat right here. It's subject to, if I'm not mistaken, the government gentlemen, the positive legal regulations under which our companies operate. There will be our financial inspection, our anti-crime management. What are we talking about? That they'll come and do whatever they want? No, he'll do what the country's positive legal regulations require. Don't make fun of people who watch these are unfortunately a lot of TV shows, because we don't have a better humor program. That company is a fact firm, most property will be Gazprom, but after our regulations we have the possibility of any kind of control. If necessary, we'll go out, but I just don't want to get into a situation to promote a good agreement, which has a development component, which brings with it a lot of money, a lot of new jobs, so that we're now disabling it by clouding the situation around some decimal points.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2057	Mr. Free Marash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2058	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as well as what we've been hearing all day, so my predecessor has mostly talked about what doesn't say here and what would be great to write. I'd have to tell the public first of all what it says in this agreement. Mr. Momchilov, I'm in the order of speakers. What is in this agreement is that 51% of the ownership, which means material and immaterial property, has been trying to explain in vain by the recent minister Popovic that this does not refer to the vast assets of the NIS. This refers to material and immaterial property. This involves, among other things, land, natural treasure, concessions. One hundred percent of the management, Mr. Bayatovic, and gentlemen, will have the Russian side. We can't talk about this being our firm, our refinery and so on. No, this will be the one who owns 51%. When it comes to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, i.e. this agreement, how it conflicts with it, or where it makes it difficult for us: everyone who has a plan to enter the EU or join the EU has one obligation, which is that if they do not have their energy, they do not have their wells, as we will no longer have, have their refineries and so on, since they will be Russian, they have an obligation to have 30% of their supplies from annual consumption. It is a terrible commitment for Serbia. I'm just asking you who understand yourself in that gas section -- where Serbia will store that gas, because neither will the Banatian court be ours. And the Banatical Court will be 51% Russian and the Russians will manage it and certainly, Mr. Skundric, and you will agree, they can turn the tap and we cannot store our gas there, which will be our obligation if we want to join the EU. Later, in order not to spend too much time, I'm going to ask about the old Russian debt, which is why it wasn't the subject of this agreement. Those who are trying to accuse us of belonging to an energy lobby have found a cheap story. So, you know who built the energy lobby here and who has the ability to create those energy lobbys. Fortunately, the bottom line is something next. We're against this deal because you made it without a tender. We think it's a terrible failure, and that's why this agreement can't be ratified. We're also because you sold NIS at book value, which I mentioned earlier, and you haven't established market value. Every letter in this agreement, which is indeed on several sides, has only 17 points, only talks about the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, or the Serbian side. Furthermore, this is not a matter of privatisation, as I was saying earlier, it's a matter of etatization, a property that passes into the hands of another state, at this time into the hands of the Russian state. It is important for the LDP to point out that we are not against co-operation with the Russian Federation at all, we are not against co-operation with Gazprom, we are only for co-operation that will allow us to be equal. What it says in this agreement doesn't speak of any equality. We will vote against when it is and we call on all of you who are making the ruling coalition, and so far you have not stated that you will be against it, that you also vote against it, because this is against the interests of the Serbian citizens and against the Serbian state itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2059	Your parliamentary group has three minutes left, but according to Business, Natasa Micic has reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2060	Madam Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of article 83. Rules of Procedure. Namely, this law on the ratification of the gas arrangement with the Russian Federation could not even be included in the agenda because the privatisation law was violated. Even when you add that the constitution favours domestic legislation in relation to international violations, it is even greater. However, first of all, I cannot be satisfied with Mr. Bajatovic's claim, which guarantees that the Russian Federation will respect other laws after such a violation of the law. Therefore, the privatisation law is violated in Article 9 of this Agreement relating to the sale of NIS, which provides for a public contract, and is in fact a tender for NIS. That's one thing. The second thing is that Article 12 of the same Agreement opens up the possibility of the Russian Federation being freed of VAT until its investment is cost-effective. Well, please, who in this country is free of VAT. Besides knowing the priests were released, I don't know if anyone else is. It's enough to calculate just how much damage it does, and not to say how uncertain it is, and that ultimately the Russian Federation decides on it, it will tell us when it's actually going to be worth it. And the third thing, this opens up the possibility, this violation of the law in these two members, opens up the possibility of breaking all other laws. In particular, it is a dangerous violation of the country's environmental laws and even European standards. As far as Bulgaria is concerned, I ask the question here to the present minister as possible, to explain the reason, perhaps there is a good argument, we have no problem agreeing with the Russian Federation, we know that it is the need of Serbia, I ask why Bulgaria did not conclude an agreement in which it would give a monopoly to the Russian Federation but concluded only 50% of the ownership agreement, and we concluded, therefore, in favour of the Russian Federation at least 51%. As for the permissive power itself, which we were talking about, Bulgaria has concluded a contract on which permeability will be the capacity of 30 billion cubic metres, which allows it to earn more money for transit fees. Why did we conclude three times less, given that the country is approximately size and capacity, so to speak, why did we three times under more unfavourable conditions conclude the agreement? Furthermore, Bulgaria and the Russian Federation have also agreed in the agreement to work on building a nuclear power plant, and we have also donated NIS to all three. These are all the reasons why LDP really can't vote because we simply don't recognize the interest of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2061	The word is Mr. Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2062	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have before us today the text of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Russia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it has two aspects. One is the gas part and the other is the oil part. As far as the gas section is concerned, two projects are important. One building project on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is the share of the gas pipeline system under a master's gas pipeline system that goes from Russia, through the Black Sea, Bulgaria and through Serbia's territory. Another major project is the construction of an underground gas storage facility at the site of a exhausted gas field in the Banatski Courts. The second part is the modernisation and reconstruction of a technological complex belonging to NIS. What the agreement says is that in order to realise these two first parts, namely the gas arrangement of two companies, one from Russia, that is Gazprom, and the Serbian company Public Enterprise of Serbia, will form a joint venture, with the participation of the Russian company 51% and Serbian companies 49%. As for the technical characteristics of the gas pipeline system that goes through Serbia, Article 4, states that the permeable power of the pipeline through Serbia is at least 10 billion metres of cubic gas. And what is also Article 4 in the position of the 3rd agreement says that the Russian and Serbian sides can agree and subsequently define by a new contract that the permeable power of the pipeline system can also be greater. What is also important, in Article 5 of this Agreement, is that if conditions are created for this, that this pipeline gets the status of a trans-European pipeline network, this means all of those benefits related to construction and later financial aspects related to transport and other effects related to transit through our country. What is important about the underground gas storage project is projected to be a minimum capacity of 300 million cubic meters, with a flow of 1.6 million cubic metres per day. Certain analyses that have been made suggest that there may be over 800 metres of cubic capacity in this warehouse. And it's normal, if you do a feasibility study, to increase the capacity of this warehouse and increase it. The importance of each gas storage facility is to ensure the stability of the state, especially during the winter period, when gas consumption on Serbia and other countries is simply higher. The second thing is, these warehouses are there when there's a gas supply disorder, whether because of some disturbances or political problems that you remember were in Russia and Ukraine's relations, simply until these political problems are resolved, you have the possibility that your gas reserves or reserves can meet the needs, that the economy and the population can use it uninterrupted and that there may be some disturbances. The third part of this agreement envisions the sale of 51% of the company of the stock company NIS to the company Gazprom or the company of daughters, in this case it is Gazpromneft. It really needs to be precise around here. This agreement does not contain the price for NIS and the value of the investment planned by 2012. However, the protocol, which was also signed, said the price for NIS should be around 400m euros and investments by 2012 would be at least 500m euros. What is important is to say, G17 plus as a party and minister of regional development Mr Mladjan Dinkic had certain objections concerning both the NIS price and the volume of investment in UNIS. We are absolutely sure that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has formed a negotiating team headed by Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and in which ministers of other ministries directly related to this arrangement, will do everything possible to ensure that the agreement signed and later contractual relations that are defined are as favourable to the state of Serbia as regards investments, i.e. the volume of investments in NIS, and on the matter of prices, honestly and in terms of gas pipeline and gas storage capacity in the Banatski dvor. It is an important thing and I am absolutely sure that the team that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has formed will do everything to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia at this point and that the arrangement will be complete, when defined by the Russian Federation, will be as favourable as possible, not to say the most favourable to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What's also important, if you're negotiating with someone, it's important to do a quality assessment. We had one assessment, these were the fellow MPs, at 1.2 billion, which was based on accounting value in 2007, nothing bad at this moment to try to establish the real price, the market price of NIS, and that the simply negotiating position of the people of this team, not only the Mr Minister of Economy and Regional Development, but the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the state, is good, and if we fight for good positions towards the Russian side, we know what we have at the moment. The sale of NIS is important because of what someone said and about the free division of shares, which I must admit, has been adopted by this National Assembly in the last session. It is not only said when estimates are made, if we want to be precise, that the sale of NIS shares will give citizens 1,000 euros for free shares. No, then it is said that 1,000 euros will be won on free shares from all six major state-owned enterprises and it is clear that we cannot say this with NIS. The state, or government, must make sure that it is easy to negotiate with the Russian side and these strong actions must be taken into account, and how much Serbian citizens will get, and four and a few million people apply for free action. What is also important to me at this point is that the realisation of this agreement in the area of the oil and gas industry achieves a number of things that are important for both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia provides security for a 30-year period, it is quite clear, with this agreement. The state of Serbia has an energy stability of 30 years and gives the possibility, as Mr. Minister said, that Serbian citizens can expect that the entire territory of Serbia can be gassed in the coming period, and that is very important. The second thing that is also important is the financial effect through fees charged for gas consumption in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The third thing is investment works that will be done in order to build this pipeline through Serbia and there is important that our, especially construction firms, get jobs, and that means securely hiring a large number of people who will work directly to build this pipeline. One more thing, I'm absolutely sure, ever strengthening the Serbian economy that is where it is right now, I'm absolutely sure when you have cheaper energy, security regarding supply, then you'll have a cheaper and more competitive product, and that means surely that production in Serbia will be easier and certainly better for people who work in businesses. In the end, I want to tell you that I fully believe that the team formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do everything to make such a good arrangement a little bit better, that everyone is simply satisfied with what is to be achieved, and I am absolutely sure that in the day of voting, a large number of MPs will support this agreement. Normally, the G17 Plus MPs will support this agreement and I expect a really quick realization of all parts of this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2063	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2064	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 100, we have been misread. I'm sorry there's been so many misunderstandings. There would be fewer if those who support this agreement showed a willingness to publicly explain the reasons for their support. Once again, we have talked about NIS so many times and the fact that its value has been underestimated, we have practically defined that privatisation as anti-zaconite because it is privatising against the procedure of the defined privatisation law, but all the time there are irregularities that no one has tried to deny in the area of an oil deal justified by the conclusion of a gas arrangement, so it is a matter of the master's direction, although in an agreement that Parliament needs to ratify there is not a word about the master's direction, but only a part of the gas pipeline system. Don't tell us what it's called, but let's see how you interpret it in an agreement that we need to ratify. So, let's see that there is a highway going through Serbia, not a share of the pipeline system. So we are further explained here that, of course, companies that are emerging will respect the laws, or as Mr. Bajatovic would say, the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia. But who guarantees us that the company will be registered in Serbia, as Article 2 of the Agreement makes it very clear that the company formed by the Republic of Serbia with the Russian Federation will agree on its place of registration? So, this agreement does not say that the company will be registered in Belgrade or Novi Sad, but will agree on its place of registration. What's the big deal? So there's no master's direction, there's no share of the pipeline system. There is no registration in Serbia, but will be agreed on where the company will be registered. Then let's move on. It is said of some importance stemming from the fact that this is a trans-European project, and Article 5 says the parties will make possible efforts. We can get an interpretation of the formulation -- possible effort. The parties will make possible efforts to allocate to the pipeline system the status of the trans-European energy network project. Do you see how far it is from what appears here as an argument that should serve to give consent to such an agreement? An agreement filled with misunderstandings and general places. In particular, the scandalous fact is that in the event of a possible dispute, only a Russian version will be used. We have an example of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous session, which did not want to put the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on the agenda because there was no version of the Serbian language, but reportedly a version exclusively in English, and then a version was added to the Serbian language, in Cyrillic, which so proud Mr Djelic, which was signed in Brussels. And there is no Cyrillic here, but only a treaty signed in Russian. Too much humiliation. So let's ask the question of what's going on with the Serbian language and how it's possible to ratify the agreement without being sure that we're ratifying the agreement that we're experiencing. Then a Russian language interpreter should appear, so to say, the agreement is in a common letter, but in different languages, so it is in itself truly precedent compared to everything this Parliament has done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2065	Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2066	I've reported in accordance with Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure. The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the committee of the National Assembly, ministers, in this case from Minister Skundric, officials, etc. Mr. Skundric, I wanted to use my right to get some notice from you, I hope it won't be in writing in ten or fifteen days, I'd like it to be during this debate. The thing I'm most interested in right now, which I haven't been able to find in the agreement is whether Serbia's gas will buy gas from Gazprom in the future through Jugorosgas. Will Jugosgas still be a mediator? When it comes to Jugorosgas, it is a company that was founded in 1996, 50% were Serbian-owned companies, including Serbia, 50% of the Russian side, namely Gazprom. Is it true, Mr Skundric, that you are aware of this, that this company, Jugorosgas, was then awarded a 25-year concession for the construction of the pipeline and the transit of gas from Pojat to the far south of Serbia, which included the construction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad pipeline, through which Serbia was to be connected to the Bulgarian pipeline. I'm also interested in who, why in 2006 introduced Jugorosgas as an intermediary? Why does Serbia pay 30.35m euros to a mediator whose only job is to collect that money? I've asked that a few times here as a question, but please, Mr. Skundrich, answer me. Is it true that two months ago, a letter of notice came from Gazprom, the owner of 75% of Jugorosgas, that he was selling his ownership to a third party and is now known to be the third person, that it is one Turkish firm. Is all this true and why Serbiagas was prevented from buying those 25% by a decision of the previous government, i.e. by inaction of the previous government? There are a lot of issues that are important to this Jugorosgas, and I believe there are not many countries in this world that introduced the mediators in this way two years ago. What's the middleman, who takes that money, and who's responsible for that? Please, Mr. Skundrich, answer my questions. If you are not now able to understand, then in writing for about eight or ten days, this service will record everything. (Petar Škundric, from the place: It is not the subject of this agreement, but you will get the answer. ) I know it's not the subject of this agreement, but I'm interested in whether Jugorosgas will be a gas broker by Gazprom towards Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2067	The service will deliver an answer that will arrive. I'm asking Mr. Ostojic to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2068	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Vice President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and in 30 years when fossil fuels are exhausted and oil is not in Russia, and there will be some new source of energy, the world will not fail without Russian oil or Arab oil, this agreement will learn in schools as an example of the most embarrassing agreement Serbia has ever signed. This is an agreement that will have an effect on those generations that come after us. Each member of this agreement has obligations to Serbia, Serbia's obligations and the rights of the Russian partner. The best example is Article 3. Participants have the following shares in founding capital, each of the companies. A Russian participant of at least 51 and a Serbian participant at most 49, which means that this agreement allows the Russian state to own 100%. Whether it will be Serbia's headquarters and we'll see about that. In any case, the monopoly of the Serbian state – and we from the LDP are against all monopolies, both private and state, and Serbian private and Serbian states – are replaced by the country's monopoly. We are for the pipeline, because we pay for it, and they sell it like all the countries of Europe. We want this country to develop, but we are against this agreement, in addition to these things, and because it is related to the construction of the pipeline, which is not highway by the capacity that stands in this agreement, at least on the Serbian version, but the numbers are also on the Russian version, so it is the same, which is related to the giving of the NIS. We still feel that it should be done under the privatisation law, in the tender, because it will be the easiest way to determine the best market value of our national company. We believe that the previous government signed this for political reasons, and we also think that, in addition to the adverse economic consequences for our country or for our national and national interests, this will also have adverse political consequences for our country. We repeat, we are not against co-operation with Russia, we are not against foreign investment, we are not against Russian investment, but under conditions that defend the country's honor and reputation, under conditions that other countries, which had a more responsible government than we had when she secretly negotiated with Putin, managed to provide for themselves. No country has signed a gas agreement, I'm talking about neighbouring close countries, Bulgaria and Greece, has signed an agreement giving the Russian partner majority ownership without talking about the possibility of having 100%. Both countries held on to the gold action, 50-50, with a gold action by the host country, just as Milosevic privatised the then Telecom in 1997. No country has come under a gas agreement to donate its oil industry, neither Bulgaria nor Romania. So, there is no example like this, and there is no flight and detailed insight into this agreement, because it is simply impossible for any responsible government of any country to be willing to propose this to parliament. We say again, watch out, you've agreed, you'll probably vote, but there are other times coming, it says here even that it can't happen that over the assets of that company and that company to come under the influence of nationalisation or measures equivalent to the consequences of expropriation and nationalization. Other generations are coming, perhaps braver than we are, and when they see this, they will not be bound by this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2069	The LDP has used its time. The word has Ferzo Celovic. He's not here. The word is Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2070	Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy and the accompanying protocol makes up one continent. It is not realistic what is announced by the government, the separation of the gas arrangement from the investments of the Russian partner in NIS. Serious power must not be handled by unrealistic ideology, especially when it comes to such an important business for our country. Any kind of aberration must take place in front of the principle of economic interest. It is claimed that the price for NIS is small. It is suggested that some other companies, most often mentioned in the public, would pay more. According to data from the company's website and the policy tables, whose author is Jasna Petrovic, OMV bought 45% of Germany's Bajern Oil for only $157m. The oil processing facilities of these German companies are three times higher than those of NIS. The OMV site says the company has become the largest oil and gas group in Central Europe since most of Romania's Petrom took over in 2004. But in May 2006, the Romanian newspaper Gaudul published, and our media reported that Romania had lost several billion euros in a year and a half over this job. I quote in the text published in "Politica" on 16 May 2006: "After paying taxes for oil and paying for insignificant rents, which are only 8% of the value of production, Austrians eventually remain with a net profit of 80%". It is then concluded in the same text: "It is the worst business the Romanian state has completed in recent years. "More than instructive. Also, OMV can't even be compared to Russian companies by oil production. The daily production of OMV oil is 350,000 barrels. This does not reach 5% daily Russian production. Unlike our authorities, the management of the Austrian firm is aware of this reality and therefore carefully builds a strategic partnership with Gazprom. In that context, an agreement was signed in January 2008 on the takeover of 50% of the gas storage facility in Baumgarten by Gazprom. That warehouse is Europe's third largest. It was foreseen as an important point for the already viable EU pipeline, Nabucco. And respected economic experts think the price for NIS is real. For example, Professor Jovan Rankovic, our leading expert on balance theory, corporate financing, investment policy and management accounting, considers: "The Russians offer 400m euros for 51% of NIS ownership, how much is 100% of the company worth? Also, I don't remember anyone offering to invest more than 500 million in NIS or to get a pipeline in the package. 'Professor. Rankovic concludes: "The whole gas deal is a good job for Serbia. I'm in charge of that NIS character and the amount offered is fine. The domestic oil company has huge losses since before, and only with this rise in fuel prices has begun to recover slightly. "With these estimates, Professor. Rankovic should also be added that the price for NIS actions is the result of an analysis conducted by experts from J. P. Morgan. It's known what this company means in the west. In the wider economic context, Sasa Djordovic, an economic expert at the Institute for Market Research, says: "If we sell the NIS to Gazprom, they will process and export oil derivatives here, which will reduce our external trade deficit year after year. Our economy, if we reach an energy deal, will profit from a gas transit taxi. "So expert assessments show that, unlike the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, an agreement with the Russian Federation brings down the external trade deficit and an increase in budget revenues. As for the quality of Russian oil, it has been known in general that it has been exported to Germany, Poland and other EU countries for several decades, right through the longest pipeline in the world. He was built in 1964. The total length is 4,500km, from Samara, Russia to Sweden, Germany, on the Odra River. The capacity of the pipeline is about 1.4 million barrels a day, ten times the total German daily production. The ideological and politically motivated dispute of the oil and gas co-operation agreement is contrary to legal principles. Every law student knows what the principle of pact sant servanda means: a contract is a law for parties. This principle comes from Rome's law, and it is still respected today in international contract law. It was adopted in the Charter of the UN and in the Vienna Convention on Contract Law. Also, unlike the SAA, circumstances have not changed in the meantime. The only thing that's changed since January 25th is oil prices. More specifically, the EU's dependence and global economy have increased even more than Russian oil production. The crisis in Georgia and Ossetia and the tragic reaction of Brussels show it. Also, according to the German insurance company Alliance, the price of oil will reach $200 per barrel over the next two years. That is why the agreement should be fully applied, but also the protocol signed in January in Moscow. In addition, according to Professor of International Law Stevan Djordjevic, the purpose of the protocol is to interpret the existing agreement. I remind you, the name of the protocol signed in Moscow is - basic terms of purchase of the NIS action. So it is clear that the protocol defined a price of 400m euros for the purchase of NIS shares and another 500m for the modernisation and reconstruction of NIS. Any further interpretation denying these basic terms of the protocol has nothing to do with law, economy, but unrealistic ideology and propaganda. That ideology doesn't respect the new global reality. It should also be noted that relations between the two leading world producers of oil, Russia and Saudi Arabia are now high-level today. One of the main topics when visiting the high-ranking Saudi delegation of Moscow in July 2008 was precisely the common oil policy. That's why co-operation with Russia in this area is necessary and necessary. They know that in Brussels and Washington. They should finally understand our authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2071	Mr. Free Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2072	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 104 and Article 101, because a lot of what we said today I see is not understood. My predecessor listed the words of a professor here. We've been trying to tell you all day - we're not against a deal with Gazprom, but we're against a deal like this. For what? Most, 51% has Gazprom, they have Russians, there is no Serbian state, there is no Serbian firm. Why is that so controversial? Because you gave it to the book value. I'm asking you again -- is it normal to give something at book value, when the market value has been established, by a company hired by the Ministry of Economy, of over two billion? We gave it to 400m euros. I think it's important that the citizens know. Also, I need to tell you what all NIS property is. I have to do it again, first of all, because of those who watch this transmission. NIS building in Belgrade, NIS building in Novi Sad, Refinery in Panchev, Refinery in Novi Sad, Gas refinery in Elemir near Zrenjanin, 497 gas stations, 1,600 internal gas stations, 44 cargo stations, aircraft service for the supply of aircraft with kerosene, liquid fuel tanks with a total capacity of 18,250 tonnes, about 10,000 square metres of sales space for motor oil, fats, car parts, etc. The Ozon company, whose NIS is a 100% owner, owns 11 hotels, motels and resorts. This company has four facilities in Montenegro, hotel Splendid near Prčnja, apartment hotel in Buljarica, those who were once in Montenegro know which resort in Bečići, facility in Pobora, then hotel Osovlje on Fruška Gora, restaurant Boka near Zrenjanin, houses in Tunja, hotel Adaševci on the Belgrade-Zagreb highway, on Zlatibor owns Hotel Vis, former Yugoslav, complex Hajat-Jelen on the Black Summit, etc. NIS also has shares in other companies and companies: 16% of Pančeva Petrochemia, 13% of Karbo-dioxide, factories for the production of industrial gases, NIS has 43% of the A.D. and 21% of the Radio-Television Policy, 39% of the Belgrade Hotel Hayat, 14% of the Yugoslav shares and 49% of the Pinki Sports Centre. It's only one property. Where's the natural wealth? Where's Banatski Dvor? We give it all to 51%, we give most of it to the Russians, and it will manage 100% of it. That's what this is about, Mr. Mirovic. There's something else I need to say. I'm really embarrassed, but I have to. This was mentioned today as a historic agreement for Serbia. Look at the hall, how many MPs the ruling coalition is, 30. (President: Time. ) It's a historic agreement, it's so important. Look at the importance of this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2073	Mr. Ostojić, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2074	Article 104 and Article 100. And all that for 400 million, and the shopping houses were sold for 320. That's what we're arguing about. We're not arguing business with the Russians, and we can't get a full day's answer from Mr. Djelic and Skundric about what we're asking: how is the price of 400 million determined? Is it possible that the Russians said - if you don't want to give us a NIS for 400, the pipeline won't pass. Are those partners, is that business? Is that how you run the business? Are they friends? That's why it's no surprise that there's no room for those who declare themselves to be rusofili, but it's a job and a concern for the Russian ambassador, maybe he's pleased to get his cards in, and he's not interested in the other one. How much this agreement is at Serbia's expense, and to the benefit of a foreign partner, although it is clear that the majority owner of the Russian state, in Article 8, is not enough, so the last position is this - and the provo of our obligations towards the EU, since we are now not going to have oil sites, because the findings also belong to the Russian state and that we cannot store 30% of the needs, and that is the obligation in the EU, in Article 8, writes the following - the right to use all gas pipeline and underground gas storage facilities belongs to Russian participants. Until then, it belongs to a company where the Russians are in the majority, and this doesn't even belong to the company, but only to the Russians. This is a shameful agreement, and I really wouldn't be surprised if Kostunica were a different man, if he understood himself a little better in the economy, although I do know, to take Shredder's footsteps and to appear as president of a board of directors of some kind of Russian company called the South Stream. Please, Mr. Djelic and Skundric, answer the question of how the price of 400 million came to be, when it's clear that it's funny. Then why don't we give them a present? We have proposed from the LDP, if the Russians will save us Kosovo, let's give them the NIS. They don't have to pay anything. What is NIS for one Kosovo? As we can see, they recognized South Ossetia and Abkhazia, 13% of the NIS budget. The Russian state will control the government, this country, will be able to bring down any government they want, just raise fuel prices. It will have to be voted much more neatly and disciplined in this House when that happens. Why does anyone want that? We wait for answers, we don't make obstructions, we try to tell the citizens what it says here, unlike you who are going to vote this, who are telling fairy tales that don't stand here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2075	Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic has a word, then Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2076	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, the right to discuss so far has not been used because I expected strategically important work to pass in the solemn and serious atmosphere that this agreement deserves. And the fact that it is this strategically important agreement for the state proves the tireless reporting of LDP supporters and the presentation of arguments that cannot be in the sense of opposition to this agreement. It's about the purchase of an estimate of 400 million and you claim that Deloitte&touce is a relevant house that has given a new price. In the shortest time I'll answer that question, one from the theory of economics and the other from the practice of life. In economic theory, it says that one who assesses always works according to the instructions of the client, but that's not disqualification yet, and that's how it could be understood. You know what a disqualification of the Deloit shower is? No matter what one of the four largest appraisal houses, in the Pelican affair, is called Sartida fraud, those who were contractors, although high-ranking, will be set free in close associates, even ministers. You know who's gonna answer? Several assessors from Dilloyt and the shower and several bankruptcy judges, who did the job because of their misdemeanor bankruptcy. Not only because they don't have protection, but because the appraisers of the house Deloitte&touche left direct clues to what's called a poorly done job. Don't claim that the NIS estimate didn't exist. There was a 92nd year, a very important fact before the 99th bombing, which my fellow citizen Mr. Maras did not mention for a moment, as an important fact, which led to the devastation of the oil industry's power plant. That day, when someone deliberately wants to forget about the New Sad and the part of the city called Shanghai, which is called Shanghai, a black smoke, for a very practical, non-theological reason. What Berlusconi pays to Libya for colonization, through $200 million a year in infrastructure projects, as an apology civilizational for colonization, you've forgiven by not allowing the crime of NATO bombing, killing irreparable human victims, but also destroying the plant, forget it, through your attempt to make us forget. But NIS is a concrete example where you can't claim that the estimate of $1.2 billion is now much higher, because you forget about the NATO friend bombing, you forget about the loss of the 40% market, you forget that the monopoly you're talking about today is one of the few remarks that economists at the time, the late Djindjic, as prime minister, have indicated: that the market economy by building a monopoly cannot be achieved. That's what's bothering you today, because that's not what your friends do. So, a minimum of economic, human, moral, professional and political honesty for this speaker you must have. And I don't know if you mentioned Hayat as an asset. The fact that, even after the signing of the Agreement, it has been illegally sold as a NIS value in shares in Hayat. Why didn't you mention that? I think honesty allows, requires, and it's necessary that you have it behind this speaker. I'm gonna finish something that's not a joke. One young person who is watching our congregation debate says - I hear how many hotels, bungalows, motels, so yes, and the Russians should come, that NIS starts to deal with basic work, not that those of NIS still live well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2077	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2078	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, gentlemen of the Ministers, too much pathetic, Mrs Tabakovic. If you had spent more time in the hall with us during this historic discussion, you might realize that we are not entering the quality of Deloitte&touche's assessment or Mary Lynch and Raiffeisen's investment at all. We're just asking the government how she could start negotiations with the Russian Federation without knowing how much the property she's negotiating is worth? Why did the government, since the president of the state, in the presence of the prime minister, through the signature of the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Ilic, practically put us before the final act, why is he now doing an assessment of the value of NIS when it previously assumed through the protocol the obligation to sell the NIS 51% for 400 million? What a NATO bombing. Who gave any legitimacy to NATO bombing? Did we say that NIS is worth one euro or a billion euros? We're just saying that the privatisation of NIS is being conducted against the Privatisation Act. Two forms of privatisation through the Privatisation Act are known in this country. It's a tender privatisation and auction. Today, the head of your parliamentary group mentioned some privatisations as controversial, say in the tobacco industry or the privatisation of cements and sugars. All these privatisations have been carried out in accordance with the law. There was a public call and interested companies called. You're talking about monopolies. I must remind you that what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did in 2001 was armed by 2003 and that was the only way to seduce order on the oil products market here in the country. When you were in power, Mrs. Tabakovic, this is where gas was sold in the streets, in bottles and cans. I'm not saying that you're responsible, but the only way to revitalise the oil industry of Serbia was to which the government of the Republic of Serbia came in 2001. We destroyed the black market. Serbia's oil industry is only one segment of this agreement. The second is that famous gas arrangement. There's no mention of the freeway route. That's not in the agreement. It is said that a company that will be at least 51% owned by a Russian partner will be formed, but at the same time it is said that the company's business policy will be managed by the very Russian side. Article 8 states that the right to use all gas pipeline and underground gas storage capacities belongs to Russian participants. Where are we going to store our strategic gas reserves? Who's going to form the prices? The one who runs the company. So there's no need to give this agreement meaning that it doesn't have. This should be seen as an economic agreement with a partner who has been found and looking for opportunities to make it as favourable to our side as possible. It has been said that the company will comply with our country's laws, but the agreement says that the company will be registered in a place agreed by those who form the company does not say it will be registered in Serbia. It may be registered in Switzerland, it may be in Cyprus, perhaps in Moscow, but there is no guarantee it will be done in Serbia. We have said so many times that we have nothing against an agreement with the Russian Federation, but we want this agreement to be made in accordance with the country's economic interests, to be made in the way that the agreement rules and other countries. We do not underestimate the value of the oil industry in Serbia. We haven't even seen an estimate of the value that's been polluted, made by "Dilloyt and shower." We only know one estimate that was made, I think in 2006, at the government's request, that was Mary Lynch and Raiffeisen. I think it was funded by the World Bank or the IMF. But we're not talking about an assessment of the value of NIS at all, we're talking about the fact that there's no argument about what's been mentioned here for us in this agreement. There's no argument for that kind of support that's being asked of us. We were brought before the final act. Such a thing was brought by an irresponsible government, a government that had different arches in different situations. At one point, she said that the country's economic strategy is such that we must agree to a ratio of 51:49, forgetting that it itself defined the country's energy development strategy, in which she said that the interest of all interests is to retain the power of majority ownership in the energy sector in all companies, EPS, NIS. Most of the property, it's gone today. No country has signed such an agreement so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2079	The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2080	I'll repeat what you didn't understand. I am not defending the government's moves, which behaves in different ways from case to case, defending the strategic interest of Russian presence in the oil industry of Serbia, as the largest possible producer, the supplier, which gives us energy security. What I object to you is that you don't find enough analysis and prepared Project "Fiyata", for example, where you don't know which country the factory will be built on, how much local self-government will lose eventually from tax exemptions. Today we have information that the state will cost 200m euros, infrastructure preparation for the arrival of that, perhaps, investor, and already said -- not 200m, but 300m. It is very possible that all workers will be fired, the bankruptcy system is excellent, so Dinkic can then give up 2,000 euros per newly employed worker. What's the difference? What comes from Europe, not Europe as geographically defined, but from a circle of countries that are part of many of them members of NATO, in this country can get all the privileges, to be undefined, not to know how much it costs, that the contract will be signed in May, June, July, August, it is not yet signed, and when Russian capital and its presence in the bank, in NIS, everything is controversial. I'm concerned, Mr. Jovanovic, that you don't see the important thing. The government won the election in the free action story, in which it took four million people to win shares. There's five of them today. Very conscious or unintentionally, you are going to give them an order, wanting to create a kind of enmity towards Russian capital, because because of the low price of NIS that action will be less. Think about who you're doing the election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2081	Mr. Marash has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2082	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, I am truly surprised by this previous speaker, that the previous speaker has said such things. I really didn't expect it from Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, who I really appreciate very much. She mentioned me earlier, but this previous story is completely unclear to me. Mrs. Jorgenka, I would like you to defend Serbia's interests when you talk about this agreement, not the Russian partner as the world's largest oil producer, etc. I'm interested in something else. You weren't here today, you didn't hear us say on many occasions how many people have applied for action in this country, what the value of these actions is. You're the reason I'm gonna do it again. So NIS was founded and then its value was 993 million and 786 thousand euros. At that time, the nominal value of the actions at the time of the establishment was 125 euros, in 2005, of course when the stock company was transformed, then the euro was around 80 dinars. Of course, this is what I'm saying first and for the sake of the citizens, that the citizens know how much they're going to get from these promised thousands of euros. Since you're satisfied with this price of 400 million given to the Russians, which is what the Russians got for the NIS and will pay, since they have 51%, it should now be worth around 784 million, which means that the value of the action, of course, would be 99 euros. I'd like you to explain to the citizens why you're up for something like that. I'd like you to explain to the citizens whose interests you're defending. You just said whose campaign we're running here. No, that's the question I'm asking you, you're at the beginning of your presentation, there's a stenogram here, you've declared to defend the interests of a Russian partner in this agreement. I would like you to defend the interests of the state of Serbia and of the citizens of Serbia, and of the "Srbigas", NIS, not of the Russian partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2083	The word has Veroljub Arsic according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Cedomir Jovanovic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really had no intention of answering my words in the Rules of Procedure, I applied for a regular discussion, but here's how time went by was simply not my desire to show up for this speaker who decided, but the discussions that were being held here. There have been many discussions about the NIS assessment, which is its value and how it should be privatised. Most of the objections were from LDP and their president, Cedomir Jovanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, you would probably NIS to privatise as Sartide. The value of Sartide in privatisation was net, when all debts, between $28m and 57m, were rejected, according to estimates of the Belgrade Economic Institute. So the claims of Sartide, the debts of Sartide, the assets of Sartide equal to 28 to 57 million. Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, the government when you were vice president sold Sartid for 21 million dollars. At a cabinet session on March 31st, 2003, the government is making a decision on how Sartide should be privatised. Djelic was then a minister in the same government. Mr. Jovanovic, what is also interesting is the US-style final account that was handed over to the United States, which says that a total of $33m was paid for Sartid, of which 23 million for the purchase price, because some smaller companies were also bought, I'm surprised that Mr. Maras didn't list what was all in Sartida, it's not only that iron factory has a tin factory, etc. And Luke in Smederev and a customs-free zone, not to mention, but what's most interesting, six million dollars for a commission. For that money, Sartide was sold. So commissions totalled nearly one fifth of Sartide. Why didn't you want to talk about it, Mr. Jovanovic? Why then, for the property of Sartida, which is the same social property, NIS is a state property, and separate it, why didn't you fight back then, why didn't you fight for the right of those workers who worked in Sartida to get them too, to be the owners of Sartida? No, Sartide was sold in one bad way for 21 million. He owed domestic banks, as much as he could domestically, 700 million dollars. The debt between 21 and 700 million returns the government of the Republic of Serbia. US style got a clean situation, and workers were reportedly kicked out first, and then hired, as they liked it. Mr. Cedomire Jovanovic, you were then Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. Answer those questions. Don't give us who we are for this deal to spray with the ashes. You're all on your own enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2085	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2086	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, Article 100, misreading. I'd be happy to answer that, of course, in the shortest lines. I think it's time to discuss the privatisation of Sartide in 2003. I think from that moment on, this privatisation, as well as the many that preceded it, which followed until the end of my government's term, is knowingly criminalizing, precisely because those who are doing this are trying to avoid responsibility for the fact that, let's say, this Sartide has made debts of 700 million dollars in your government's period and because we are criminalizing ourselves, so as not to talk about a criminal character, let's say, an agreement like this we're discussing today. Mrs. Tabakovic is not on the agenda of the Fiat topic, when we can talk about it, but I agree with everything you said, absolutely does not take into account any signing of the agreement, in this case of Fiat, nor will we support those initiatives that are going towards further excavating the law on privatisation through direct contracts, which are so much talked about, and in the event of the privatisation of the Telekom minority package, and in the event of privatisation of certain insurance companies and in the event of the privatisation of Bora. Today we are talking about an agreement that we should practically transfer sovereignty from the Republic of Serbia to a company owned by the Russian Federation. We want to get a valid explanation for something like that. If it's about strategic dependence on Russia, then it's partly an acceptable explanation for us, because we don't know any other country with which we could conclude an energy agreement, but we're talking about the Serbian side all the time, not Russia. We can understand the fact that the Russian side protects the interests of its citizens, that the Russian side protects the interests of the Russian state, we can understand the fact that it is acceptable for Russia to support an agreement that is only valid in Russian, but I don't understand why you, Mrs Tabakovic, is a normal fact, unprecedented in the history of this parliament, under which this agreement is only valid in Russian, is not in Serbian? What's that nonsense? That's total nonsense? Why do we even have to discuss this? Why do we have to accept that? The price of NIS must be clearly established, by clear procedure. That's what we insist on. We don't understand why two estimates were made. What is the cost of 400,000 euros now, how much is it to work on a new estimate? Why do you throw that money away? We're interested in that. Why did this country define an economic strategy and then give up on it? What changed in the meantime? It's not the subject of the Russian side, we're interested in what was going on behind those Kremlin walls at the end of January this year. Milosevic didn't do something like this in '97. He held on to the gold action, held back by the Greeks, Bulgarians, all those who signed this before us. If he can't, let's say he can't and why he can't, maybe we'll accept it and understand it if there's a higher power, but it's also too superficial everything we've heard today as an explanation. There are no government representatives. Historical session, no prime minister. Ministers here mostly sit here to listen and count we'll stop, we'll finish today, there's no need to harass you, since you obviously see this as harassment. There's something very important left, the fact that this state is handing over to another country the property that's been created for 60 years, that it teaches at a bargaining price, that it's giving up the right of which it can't give up, that it's trampling the principle of equality, that it's handing it over to another state, that this other state gets 51% of ownership, 100% of influence, control. That prices will be determined by that other country, that the capacities will exclusively be used 100 percent by that other country, that we may be given a highway pipeline. But it's not guaranteed by this agreement, that maybe that company will be registered here. There may be power plants in Novi Sad, maybe plants and Nis. It's too much for us to vote and there are too many bad experiences from the past. Today, the government has put an end to a story about a concession that has been told for five years. It was the same position as the LDP during those five years. We criticised it, not because we think Serbia does not need a highway, but because it was clear that we would end up in a dead end. This is the same first step in that one direction, in which in the end those who signed this agreement will not hit their heads against the wall, but citizens and citizens of Serbia. No party context. We can discuss this with someone else, about Fiat, about all the other privatisations. What today has been the subject of our debate today is this agreement that is bad and that obviously no one defends. It's not your responsibility to defend this, you didn't create this. You were the opposition, and today you were and you were a year, two or three. I can accept your assessment that you're interpreting this as something that is absolutely consistent with the interests of our society, but there's no argument that we agree on that. That's your feeling. Maybe you're right, maybe you're wrong. We don't want to judge on the basis of our feelings, but based on the facts, we don't see those facts in the agreement. That's why we have to do this much, and that's why we're gonna vote against it. As far as we're concerned, we will withdraw from this debate, because I don't think there's any reason to repeat the lack of facts that we've talked about so many times today, because it's obvious that the government's representatives don't feel any need, not to us, but to the citizens of Serbia, the need to answer those questions that we've asked here on behalf of these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2087	There's a word in the Rules of Procedure for Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2088	Ladies and gentlemen, today is the first time we have discussed a legal project on privatisation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why I ask you all here and the Serbian public, why this agreement appears in the form of a legal project here, when we have so far had thousands of privatisations that we haven't taken care of, as we are today, and we need to lead. The LDP rightly defends common interests and needs to defend. It took everyone in common from the moment of privatisation with this kind of energy to defend privatisation in terms of protection of interest. But the government's representatives here are performing unseriously. Why? The Prime Minister, who did not participate in the signing of the agreement, but he is the president of the state, i.e. the party's president participated and praised the agreement on 25 January 2008 as the most significant energy agreement in the history of the Serbian people. And he really is. The Prime Minister, who was scheduled to present today's basic concept of this agreement, is not present today. He went public, I will now read, with an entirely opposite view of what his deputy, i.e. Vice President Djelic, is performing and says in the opening statement. The Prime Minister, in an interview he gave on behalf of the government, said on July 10th, "As regards the economic agreement with Russia, which is addressed to the Assembly for ratification, there is no mention of the price for NIS capital and will still be negotiated." He stated that an agreement on the sale of part of NIS capital, signed in Moscow on 25 January, is a roof document and that the protocol stating the price per rank is lower. Cvetkovic further said he could not say whether the price for NIS would be changed in the negotiations, but that it would be discussed as well as a number of other things. He added that he expects that an expert part of the task force that will participate in the talks will be needed. According to the Prime Minister's interpretation, the price signed in this agreement, i.e. in the protocol which is an integral part of this agreement, is not definitive, will be discussed. Just to read the statement by Minister of Mining and Energy Petar Skundric, he said since 17 July 2008: Minister of Mining and Energy Petak Skundric said there will be no change in the agreement with Russia and prices for the sale of NIS. Skundric said Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic was not set to head the negotiating team to change the price for NIS, but the team was formed to speed up and achieve better results. The agreement cannot be compromised and that is not the intention of Vice President Dinkic. It's obvious that the Prime Minister is in college with the Minister of Energy. Please, the President of the Government should appear here in the debate and be made known in terms of whether the price is definitive or still to be discussed. Since a working group has been formed, it is obvious that not only the Prime Minister, but also the coalition party in the DS government, the price will continue to be discussed. It is very unserious not to discuss this in this high house and to define all the bases that are the elements of this agreement, protocol and future contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2089	The word is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2090	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is certainly another item of the agenda of this assembly session that leads us to that finding and conclusion, which we have heard so many times over the past days about this speaker, which is that Serbia's interest, the interest of Serbian citizens, is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works and works smoothly. Even though we are political insinuators, having different views on certain things and issues, we can reach a consensus on what is very important for Serbia's interests. It is clear that this assembly session, on the one hand, should be very clear to profile the path, the European path, the path of European integration that Serbia should take in the next time period by adopting the SAA, then the strategic partnership with Russia and the EU, but also a clear and unequivocal relationship between Serbia and the southern Serbian province. The energy agreement with Russia is certainly one of Serbia's best strategic projects. This chance should, of course, be taken advantage of because the realisation of this agreement will make Serbia not only energy security enough, but also interesting to many potential investors. We are convinced that Serbia and Russia's energy agreement cannot fail and that it will be ratified by an absolute majority in this House, i.e. that we will reach a consensus of all relevant political factors on such an important issue, that both the position and the opposition will express a high degree of political responsibility. So, this agreement gives Serbia great energy stability, but also a leading position in the gas economy, oil production, and what is most important is a strategic partnership with both Russia and the EU. The price of each arrangement is important, but it is the most important long-term result, as well as what the country is getting in the long term. The agreement brings to our country, it was already heard during today's discussions, two billion euros in foreign investment, several hundred million euros a year from the gas flow, and employs tens of thousands of citizens. We simply do not want to believe that anyone in this Parliament intends to delay and extend the ratification of this agreement, because certainly our delay and prolonging in any way can lead to the situation that the Russian side is giving up, which is an objective problem for Serbia and which is not certainly Serbia's interest. What does it matter what this agreement contains, what is it that the Russian side provides Serbia and Serbia gets? Part of the European gas pipeline, which means large investments, employment, long-term income and profits for Serbia. We are completing the construction of the gas shelter Banatski dvor and thus ensuring stability of supply with this energy, very important for the lives of citizens and stability of our economy. And of course, the reconstruction and modernisation of the entire NIS complex again means new investments, employment and a modern energy system, which will certainly be a leader in Southeast Europe, with all the positive economic effects that such a modern system can mean for our country and its development. A common strategy is necessary and, of course, the best possible results for Serbia and the strategic partner are achieved through the negotiations. Maybe it's not the time to talk about it, maybe it's a technical detail, segments of that agreement, if possible, that needs to be fixed, or maybe, first of all, try to increase the capacity of the pipeline. Why is there an agreement being made with Russia? Because Russia today falls within the top of the world by energy resources and when it comes to oil, and when it comes to gas. This agreement is not made with traders but with the manufacturer. Parliament, we are convinced, will confirm that Serbia is a responsible country and that what was previously signed by the government of the Republic of Serbia will ratify. The SPS, when it comes to privatising public enterprises, is not for sale of 51%, but of course we respect the strategic interest and we will vote for ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2091	Mr. Professor. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2092	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have already heard that the DSS will vote in favour of this agreement and I even think that colleagues from the DSS who have now spoken have presented more than enough arguments for such an attitude. So allow me just a few notes. First, we need to understand that when two countries make an agreement, whether it's as important as this one or less important, they certainly do it because both countries have their own interests. To tell you the truth, at this point, I am less interested in the name of the state, and Russia on the one hand is obviously indisputable, but Serbia's interest is particularly obvious. Having a pipeline on your territory or having a tap on that pipeline repairs our overall not only economic but also political position in this part of the world. All those who were full of the mouth of Europe by yesterday must know that it is one and what an argument in that one of our ways in Europe. Secondly, there have been recent days in the media even very distasteful auctions about how much NIS is worth, the billions were mentioned, trillions, but it must be kept in mind one of the experiences that countries in our environment had at a time when we had a shortcut to work, somewhere in the early 1990s, when they were selling their oil industries and when the only investment of those who bought those investments was to get a large lock and shut them down. Of course it's in the interest of those who sell oil derivatives. It is in the interest that there is no refinery in Serbia, because then, at a great price, they will sell oil derivatives, and in this case we sell oil to whoever has their own interest, not ours, but theirs, to produce derivatives of their own oil in these refineries. It is no doubt a better guarantee for Serbia's economic well-being than all sorts of bids for billions, trillions and all that. Finally, I'm sorry that LDP MPs came out, and I'm not worried that they're against ratification of this agreement, but I'm very concerned that they're doing it with so much passion. I'm afraid to answer the question - what are the motives of such passion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2093	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Kostresh has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2094	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, LSV MPs and LSV MPs will vote against the Energy Agreement, and not because we are against co-operation with the Russian Federation. Because after the adoption of the SAA, and I hope, to the vast majority of MPs of this high house, we will very clearly, very unequivocally and very firmly route Serbia to the EU, where Serbia is located. But we are not running away from Serbia to co-operate with the East and the West, we are not running away from that Serbia must have partners in both the Russian Federation and the EU, both in the US and China and in other countries, because only through joint co-operation can we come into a situation that we can progress together and develop. I must again underline that this co-operation with the Russian Federation must be mutually beneficial and in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. I want to say that LSV MPs are not against the South Stream either, because South Stream is necessary for Serbia, because as South Stream arrives in Serbia, Serbia is stabilising in terms of energy supply, especially gas. Under what conditions should the South Stream come to Serbia? How could neighbouring Bulgaria form a joint venture with the Russians on the principle of half-half, or 50% run by Russians, 50% Bulgarians. How could such conditions have Hungarians, while Serbia is giving management rights of 51% to Russia. It's not clear to me, and I think it's an unfavourable situation. Both I and LSV MPs believe that this is an unfavourable situation for our country and that is one of the reasons why we cannot support this agreement. Also, I must remind you that Bulgarians have three times more guaranteed gas flow on their territory than Serbia. Why is that? In addition, I want to say that we are neither against the privatisation of NIS, because there are very useful and very good solutions to privatization of oil companies, so if we need to privatise NIS to do so, but let that privatisation be done in the tender, and then achieve the best and best price for NIS, to privatise NIS. Not like this, that we sell NIS for 400 million euros. Today, a 400m-euro figure has been mentioned many times, and that is what is the biggest problem with the NIS privatisation and the energy agreement. It's impossible for any of you to convince me that 400m euros is worth NIS or, as we were going to say or like to say, Naftagas plus Jugopetrol. I will read again, although several of my colleagues have done this before me, what we are selling for 400m euros: a NIS building in Belgrade, a NIS building in Novi Sad, a Refinery in Panchev, a refinery in Novi Sad, a gas refinery in Elemir near Zrenjanin, 497 gas stations, 1600 internal petrol stations, 44 cargo stations for the supply of kerosene, a tanker for the transport of liquid fuels of 18,250 tonnes, about 10,000 square meters of engine oil and fat, actions in other companies, oil sites in Vojvodina, oil sites in Angola, 11 hotels, motels and resorts. Is it possible that everything I've read is only worth 400 million euros? Is it possible that all of this I have read is worth as much as Belgrade's shopping houses that have been in bankruptcy for 10 years, which have been sold for 360m euros. Is it possible that all of this is worth just as much as the last first leaguer in our football league, because it's worth 500 million euros, and the ground on which Maracana is located, and I believe that this land is sacred to all the stars, but it's worth 320m euros. Is it possible that Maracana is worth 80% of NIS? That's my question. When we get into a situation to sell 51% of the company for this little money, then we have to ask what's going on and if it's the best job. That is why LSV MPs are unable to support one such agreement, especially because, for example, annual production of oil and gas in 2007 amounts to more than 400m euros. So 650 million tons of oil is four million barrels, the average price last year was about $100 per barrel, add to that gas production, and we'll see that if it's not exactly 400 million euros, then it's very close to that cost of production. Is it possible, we know that 143 million tons of geological oil reserves were discovered in Vojvodina, and 32 million were removed, so that the rest could be sold for all that money. Those are the questions I want to ask. When we sell 51% of NIS, then we get into a situation where those new 500 million investments are invested in a company owned by Russians, they invest in their company, not our company, because we sold them 51%. I'd like to know, and I'm using my business law, members of 225 and 226, the investment structure of the Russian side. I want to know where, when, how much will the Russian side invest that 500 million euros? Will that 500 million be invested today, the day after the contract is signed, in 20 years or never, and where will the funds be invested? That's what I want to know and that's my parliamentary right. I would ask the secretary and president of the assembly to respect my parliamentary right. One more thing for us Social Democrats League MPs, the Duke is very controversial. Dispute is that there is no word of damage to the AP Vojvodina. The AP Vojvodina should be compensated for the fact that on 31.12.2008 the Vojvodinas must be according to the Constitution, I quote the Constitution against whom I was but this is the time, according to the Constitution, Vojvodina must return and its property. Let's make a deal with the Duke's property. Can we accept that Naftagas, taken away by Vojvodina in 92, was created by NIS by the merger of Naftagas, which controlled all oil wells located in the territory of Vojvodina, all gas wells located on the territory of Vojvodina's two refineries, gas storage in the Banatski dvor, all of which were owned by Naftagas, owned by the Southpetrol by a oil and oil factory in Kruševec, an administrative building in Belgrade, and a gas station in the Southpetrol. Now that we come to 31 December 2008, when the Vojvodina must be returned to the Constitution, we come to the situation that these assets will be sold before Vojvodina returns. I ask, gentlemen, why do we do it that way and how will we damage the AP Vojvodina? I expect the province administration to react on this issue. I expect that the province administration will ask for the damages of the AP Vojvodina, because when we come into a situation where an energy agreement is sold something that is duchy, then the Vojvodina must be compensated in that, because we can understand that something greater or higher is of greater interest, but if it is something greater or higher interest to sell the duchy Naftagas, please, how will the state damage Vojvodina. I expect to get an answer from the government to that question. I'll try to quote Mr. Djelic. He said there was a chance for Vojvodina in perspective. Mr. Djelic, we don't need perspectives, let's make something happen that Vojvodina has right now, that Vojvodina gets now, not always have a perspective. We fought against the concession for two and a half years, and we knocked it down because it was a disgrace to Vojvodina. I'm telling you, we're going to fight this, not against the energy deal, not to cooperate with the Russians, but to rob Vojvodina. The Duke must be compensated and the damage to the Vojvodina we expect will be done and we will get an answer to what is good for the Vojvodina. That's very important to me, not in the stories that we're going to get new jobs, specifically. Why don't we single out Naftagas and why doesn't Naftagas return to Vojvodina as a duke's property? When we single out Naftagas, then we can talk about other things. There are many other things I wanted to say but I would like to ask my colleague Dragan Vujadinović, he wrote a lot about this in "Today," whether he supports these views or maybe he has other visions. So the Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina will vote against the energy agreement, not because we are against co-operation with Russia, not because we are opposed to the South Stream coming to Serbia, not because we are against the privatisation of NIS, but because we believe that there can be much more money for NIS and that money must come to Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2095	Replica, Dragan Vujadinović
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2096	Dear gentlemen, I am taking the opportunity, using Article 101(1) to engage in this kind of round table and I will be very brief. As a liberal economist, I know, I would like to be heard by Mr Nenad Popovic, whom I know from sight and know his economic activities, we all know why the market has won and how it has won. The market won because it's qualifications, it's historic, it's the best, it's the worst, it's embarrassingly eliminated. That's why the market won, because it succeeded through its mechanisms to practically make measures for supply and demand, and in that sense what I wrote and what I stood up for in this agreement was obvious. The gas agreement is obviously an economic multiplier for Serbia's economy. The gas agreement is what we economists say is a multiplier. It spreads through geometric progress, covers new investments, new jobs, but what I also wrote, and what I stand behind as an individual, is that NIS had to separate from the gas agreement and determine what the market would say. We don't know if it's shameful or humiliating or whether it's historic on the other side. We don't know that, we can trust either Jovanovic or Mr Popovic, but that's why there's a market as an insidious, inscrutable judge, which determines what the price will be. That's what I thought as an individual. However, we remain to believe that the potentially depressed price of NIS is, as we believe, overcompensated with multiplier effects that will bring about a gas agreement. One more thing. What I've got is a skeptic, a certain skeptic, that's just the attitude of Article 13. In the position of Article 13, it is said that tax rates and taxes are frozen and I would appeal to Mr Djelic and the minister that we should eventually try to increase the tax on exploitation rights while it is time. Because if we don't increase it to our 600,000 tons of oil and gas, then we won't be able to increase it until later. As counterpart Dejan Mirovic said, in Romania, the real storm was created because of the purchase of a Romanian oil company by OMV, but not because of the price, the price was high, but because the exploitation tax was so low that they paid the entire Romanian oil company for 2-3 years, because Romania was a major producer. As a result, the indignation of the entire Romanian public has taken place. And last year, a group of our authors, one of them and Milojko Arsic, a member of the National Bank's council, and others spoke of the need to prevent us from increasing the tax on exploitation rights for our mineral treasure, so that there is no freezing, because the investor will not turbulence in his tax regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2097	The word is Dr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected presidency and respected citizens of Serbia, we have been discussing a single agreement that needs to be ratified in this House for a long time, which we of the SRS think is absolutely undeniable, and that we should not spend so much time and convince ourselves that he would accept himself here. As has been said, the SRS MPs will vote for this agreement for two reasons. The first reason is also the most important, it is economic. The second reason is, I will admit it, the emotional nature, because we look forward today to the sixth economy of the world, Russia, coming here and into this country, to finally get closer to economic relations, primarily in favour of our citizens. We believe this agreement strengthens the geopolitical importance of this region of Serbia. He was slow for a long time, and it seemed to us that we could, and we were threatened so often from the EU, that we would become Europe's appendix, and for God's sake, it was directed to us on the other hand that it could actually happen to us. Of course, we believe that this agreement is both strengthening and economic importance of our country. You see, if we look at strategically what is necessary for a country and for a nation to survive, food, drinking water and, of course, energy are needed in today's world. We've got food, we've got water, unfortunately, we can see that by privatizing the mondialist today, she's already kidnapping us. Look who owns the Rose, the Multinational Coca-Cola Company, see how the "Knjiza Miloša" is being kidnapped by large multinational companies, so you'll know what it's all about. What is indisputable is that this pipeline, which will now pass through Serbia, is also strengthening Serbia's geopolitical importance. No one can take away 600km of Danube, which is a waterway connecting with the Rajna-Maina-Dunav channel to the largest EU country, which is Germany with, when we finally watch, the Black Sea, then Dnipar, Volga and Russia and the Asian continent. On the other hand, you saw yourself being led by controversy as to whether corridor 10, Vardar-Morska Valley, will pass through Serbia, i.e. The highway and to connect Europe with Greece and the Aegean region, or perhaps the E-8 corridor, Budapest-Bukurest-Sofia, will be bypassed by Serbia. This pipeline, which will now pass undisputed Serbia, is becoming one of the significant transverses to which the gas is transmitted and Europe. We've got two legs in that South Stream. We have one that the United States advocates and that is clear why, Novorusijsk-Burgas-Skadar, where it goes to Albania's pipeline, to move on to Italy, and we have this new Russian, Constanta and Serbia, so on. Orthodox. Russia is defined in the construction of its pipeline corridors and pipelines on the basis of two principles. The first principle is an uninterrupted exploitation must be secured, and the second one is control of that transport. Its control is far safer here when the pipeline goes through Serbia, when it will not depend on other countries, which may at some point not be friendly towards Russia. Now, we're here from our so-called. The mondialist and lovers of the Atlantic integration of the civil implementation heard a lot of criticism as to why this agreement should not be adopted. There's all sorts of things being said, so we heard, right, it bothered them 51 percent, all the world 51%. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look at what it looks like in the environment. You know about INU, the Croatian oil industry has this company that is powerful. What property looks like in the INI. Today, in this INI 44.83 action is owned by the state. I repeat, 44.83. If you read the regular press you from the citizens' event, which you honor us often and primitiveism, in yesterday's newspaper, though in Croatian, you would see that MOL offered to buy 30% of the stock. MOL currently owns 25% of the stock and wants to buy another 30%. What's bothering them? What do they say they want to be such a big majority owner? "By increasing its ownership in INI, MOL will be able to take a more active role in INA development, focusing on growth, efficiency and business excellence," the MOL said, adding that it will continue to modernise the INA refinery and research projects in oil and gas production. No one is going to invest seriously and develop something serious unless it's a majority owner, and it's quite clear and the economists know it. However, it is clear that it is also possible for children. It was about the North Stream. Someone said it, explained Mr Popovic what the North Stream is. The North Stream is an underwater pipeline that goes under the Baltic Sea from Russia to Germany. Please, if you watch what the structure looks like and how much anyone invests in a company called Norstream a.g., Gazprom invests 51% of the value, German Bass 20%, Eon 20%, and there is another Dutch company Gasuni 9%. What bothers you Europeans 51%, when a German, a powerful country, in the construction of a pipeline agrees to 51 to give Gazprom, and is satisfied with its participation in German of 40%? That's the facts. I'm surprised the government's authorized representatives won't, I'm afraid they're too ashamed to bring out this kind of information. Economists should know about this, and people who follow the ordinary daily press, not the yellow press, can also get to know this, as I have met myself. Now, there's one interesting thing, there's a lot of talk here, and what's blackest, the untruth about the Nabucco project, about the Nabucco pipeline. We signed, please, two days ago that you read "Politics" you would have read, the Nabucco gas pipeline project last night won the sixth partner, as the consortium of energy concerts, from Austria OMV, Romania Transgas, Hungary's MOL, Bulgaria's Bulgargas and Turkey's Botas, joined the German PWE. Please, who signed anything here? I won't tell you where, the minister of Austria was host, where it was signed with the presence of the ministers of these countries, they signed here. There's no sign of us here. If anyone looks at the route, they see that there is no way for Serbia. If he looks a little further, if he wants to be a lover of truth, not a fan of half-truths and qualified deliberate lies, then he'll see that if this pipeline comes back to life, he needs to secure 31 billion cubic times a year in the first leg, and that cubicity is completely distributed to the countries through which this pipeline passes. There's no room simply for us. Why is it that someone's distracting us that we're the signatories of this and that we have something to expect here? But there is another statement, Romanian Roma oil chief Dina Petritia, said earlier that the South Stream is a death blow to the Nabucco project. And those who today are so hotly challenging the South Stream, calling for percentages, calling for the low price that has been received, are comrades and comrades from this story, they defend the interests of Nabucco, they defend the interests of OMV. How many OMV pumps do you have in Serbia? They're the same ones who tell stories and run away, they tell a bunch of lies. This is true. I'm sorry they're not here to say this isn't true and they're telling the truth. What would I be free to say just in the end, who did we sign this gas deal with? Who is this company where now many have tried to scare us that we will be eaten and used? What times do we live in? I think it should be said that the company with which we will sign this contract and that it has already provided tentacles on both the American and African markets. Nigeria has offered to build a trans-Saharan pipeline and a pipeline, which will lead to Algeria, to the EU, and complete production of oil and gas to be handed over to the Russians. Gaddafi has agreed to sell gas and oil completely to Russia, and negotiations are under way with Iran. Iran wants to, due to the crisis situation in the region and the threat of military intervention, also its sources to exploit the Russians. This is a company called Gazprom, which last year had $91 billion in profits, gentlemen. It is a company that has 432,000 employees, which has put it on its own task, is now in third place, to cross the value of Exon in 2014. It's a company we need to get into business with, and it's a company we're being threatened with. The company will triple its investment in investment projects and development over the next two years. Of 14 billion dollars last year, they go to 45 billion in the next period of time. Gentlemen, what we've been challenged here and what some have caught up with, so they've come out to plow, is not compatible with elementary logic or with honesty. Gentlemen who have disputed in such a shameful way one good and for one small country an extremely good agreement, which will provide us with energy security, and without speaking of other benefits, many have spoken of them, what would happen, let us not sign it. What's the perspective of us not signing it? Look out, Gazprom's day-to-day gas and oil shipments are already from Saudi Arabia. The sites we're arguing about, which are new, I won't talk about, the reserves they own, they're undeniable. We have the kind of NIS that we have, devastated after the bombing, we'd have to get raw material from the second or third hand, and now we'll have raw material firsthand and we'll have a safe and accompanying industry that can track all of that. What's sad? It's sad that we've waited this long, that we're wasting time like we're living in abundance, instead of signing this long ago and starting projects and research. Yeah, there was that, too, the social program. Be careful, the LDP takes care of the social program, Mr. Chad, which several jeeps drive every day and a couple of bodyguards. What's known is, I don't know, there's government representatives, they should say. Negotiations are being conducted, and as far as I know, the Russians have said -- we're in favour of retraining, so that we can solve primarily excess labour problems. It's like the Russian came here to rob us and nothing else. My party comrades and colleagues will certainly speak similarly of this, and we welcome the acceptance of this agreement, and those who will not, with that argument they have made, are easily able to find a place. Be careful, Ceda Jovanovic says, first they are state-owned, then national interests, the one that says Kosovo is not in Serbia. Well, you can't do that Pharisees and those acrobatics here. Be consistent, at least when you're going out for a pay phone. Therefore, Serbian radicals are voting with all their heart for the proposal. We're just resenting maybe why he wasn't here in favor of this memo, protocol. It was supposed to be part of the material when it was already signed in Moscow, and it was signed by we know who, not the opposition, but the position, headed by the president of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2099	Thank you. The word has Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2100	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't speak for long, it is my duty to say a few words on behalf of the SPO, which is why we will support this agreement. This agreement, in addition to trusting this government and participating in this government, does not just have to be seen from an economic aspect, which is certainly satisfactory, but can also be seen from another other, political, more global aspect. These days are very important decisions in this House, and when I talk about the second item of the agenda, I cannot help but look back at the first, ratification of the Stabilisation and Respect Agreement with the European Union. We have always had centuries of allies as countries of the West and we felt that Serbia's integration processes were only possible in the European Union, but we have never forgotten that our traditional, cultural, historical and origin was the closest Russia. Serbia is a bridge between Europe and Asia, Serbia is a bridge between the Adriatic and the Danube, between the Balkans and Russia and as such has always been on a geopolitical path that has brought destruction to its past and trouble. I think this time, by creating a European community, Serbia is able to take advantage of its place on the map of Europe and thus ensure a state perspective and strengthen the state in every way. Russia's influence has been getting stronger lately. The United States is losing its political influence in the sense that Russia is becoming a superpower, and we also know that Russia and the first partner of the European Union are. Every Russian investment in Serbia means a kind of security and a kind of stability for our country. But first of all, what I would like to say is that as a serious state, we must respect the decisions we have made, so we remember that the current head of state and former prime minister have accepted a gas agreement with Russia, and therefore we have assumed the commitment of the state as a state, and I don't think that any serious state can revise, cancel, in any way compromise that promise that was confirmed by their departure to Moscow. In addition, I would like to remind myself of the state's commitment by one fact that the Kingdom of Serbia respected its financial obligations with Germany in the First World War, although at that time it was at war with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2101	First Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's say that this discussion of the energy agreement is slowly entering the finals. And during today's day, I've listened to all sorts of things, at the very least, nonsense, most often from parties that are against the energy agreement. So even the former minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Vladan Batic asked why gas is cheaper in Bulgaria and Hungary. Well, because they already have a pipeline. They don't have commissions. They have a rent. That's what Mr. former minister knows, but he's obviously pretending he doesn't know. Next, is that a gas pipeline arm or a freeway pipeline? Then Mr Cedomir Jovanovic remembered to read Article 1. The agreement, where exactly it says it's a pipeline, and it's freeway, where it's defined how and who will determine how the gas enters the country and where it's coming out of the Republic of Serbia, whether it's international or not. To clarify, gentlemen, Serbia certainly is in a somewhat interesting market, but not for such large investments, unless someone else needs to exploit this pipeline, or to buy gas from that pipeline, so that all the questions are whether it is short, whether it ends only in Serbia or possibly in Republika Srpska superfluous from the aspect of the economic point of view. So whoever invests this kind of money will be looking for multiple returns and the market will be as covered as possible. Even the observation was in which the translation was more important. I would understand that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic rebelled there that the agreement was written in Serbian and English, because English translation can be interpreted in a dozen or more ways. Even they interpret contracts differently, that's their language. However, this is about two Slovenian languages, one from the other. A man who has never learned Russian will understand 80 or 90% of this text written in Russian, because Slovenian is the language itself. They even went to the point where they asked for it to be written on Cyrillic, so the Serbian version is written on Cyrillic, but the least we can expect the Russians to write the contracts on the Latin. Of course they wrote on their letter similar to our Cyrillic. It's when someone tries to find some flaw in some agreement and threaten what's easy to defend. They even went all the way to talk to us about privatisation, why it wasn't a tender, why it wasn't a public auction. Well, it's social property. The same Mr. People's MP comes out, doesn't know that NIS is a state-owned company, not social property, but state-owned property. It is known that the special provisions of the privatisation law regulate the way in which state property is privatised. I'm saying, the easiest thing is to criticize something even if you don't have some arguments for it. But let's take a closer look at things. This agreement and its effects can be divided into two parts, into political and economic. No one can deny that such an agreement has its political weight. In the first place, Serbia gets one big partner, a partner who will have an interest through his investment to defend the country's investment interests, the particular interests of the Serbian state, and certainly one such big partner should not be forced. It should not be forgotten in this even political part that it is not only a partner who is large in the territory he is taking, by the military force behind him, but also by the economic aspect, that at this moment it is one of the countries that has the highest development rate, that the country that is constantly recording the growth of its economic production and that certainly Serbia can use something of it in the coming period, if we are able to manage our principles wisely, firstly, sound logic, and later of state and national interest. Another political advantage is that it facilitates our position in the negotiations that you are so anxious about in the EU. We have greater political weight, we are a more serious partner in these negotiations, we will be easier to achieve some of our national goals, we will be easier to protect some of our interests in negotiations with the EU if we have one of these agreements behind us. It is obvious that those who attack this agreement on the assessment of NIS values, whether it is on Cyrillic, in Latin, in Serbian, in Serbian, wants Serbia to enter the EU not on its knees but crawling. That's how they want it, that's how they see it. It's those political parts. The economic part, we can divide it into the primary consequences and secondary ones, both good for Serbia. Primary, to say that Serbia will finally achieve its energy stability. The second part is that a large part of the investments that will pass and the effects that will be used to build the pipeline to be domestic workers, domestic enterprises, let no one get excited that someone for all jobs will hire foreign businesses, expensively deliver workers, machines, etc., it is cheaper to build the effects you already have on the ground. So it can't be an excuse for some not to write it anywhere. They're primary. The secondary one, let's see that Serbia has not built a single power plant in almost 30 years. I'm not going to go into whether or not some kind of gas thermopower plant is going to be built in Novi Sad or somewhere else, I'm leaving it to Mr. Bajatovic. But one simple logic, if we replace the current with gas as energy, much cheaper in the first place with energy, we'll save our power system, there'll be more electricity to produce. Someone here complained that we could build factories, but we don't have the power to give them. If we start heating up on that gas, we're going to save not only electricity, we're going to save the environment, because by heating up gas, we're using fossil fuel, but with the slightest degree of pollution in the human environment. So, we're going to save the environment, we're going to use the mule less, we're going to use the other fuels that pollute that same environment. Also, we'll save electricity, so why don't we stop importing it in the winter, and maybe if we have smart resources, we'll be in a position to export it. These are the effects on which the SRS rely and which define the SRS to vote for one such agreement, to finally end in this part of Europe, in this part of the Balkans, the domination of a political, economic and military group, that this new bipolar world is being re-established and that we come out and protect our national, state, economic and other interests of co-operation with both the East and the West. To finish my presentation on this agenda point, I would just like to remind not only of those historical ones, but in the recent past, the Russian Federation certainly made a major contribution to this fight to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, some said it would preserve. I can say that they have done everything to preserve it, only we can lose it if we sign and recognise Kosovo's independence is still in our hands, and that's because the Russian Federation announced a veto if it tries to recognise Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state in the United Nations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2103	Mrs. Verica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2104	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MPs of the SRS group have actively participated in the debate on the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy. All of our MPs were, above all, our primal and unchanged position on the necessity of co-operation with the Russian Federation in every respect and in all fields, even when it comes to the bill today. We haven't spent all our time at our disposal to the Rules of Procedure, but due to the fact that in 20 hours or two before that, the transfer of our Jelena Jankovic tennis match begins, aware that most Serbian citizens want to follow the match, of course all of us who are in this room, we end the debate on this agenda point, and we will see each other at the following points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2105	Thank you. Mr. Popovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2106	The DSS will also not use its time until the end, wanting to allow all viewers to follow the tennis match. Once again, I just want to say that this is a historic day for Serbia, we provide our future generations with an excellent economic basis for future development. This is the best economic contract the Republic of Serbia has signed in the last 40 years, and I am sure that this will attract foreign direct investment, become the most desirable partner and Russia, and the EU and the United States, practically the whole world, and hopefully China, and I am sure that this will create an extraordinary infrastructure, both oil and gas, and NIS will become the largest oil company in Southeast Europe. This day is truly historic, this contract is an extraordinary contract for the Republic of Serbia and we are providing this with a great economic future for the future economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I would like to congratulate all MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the future ratification of this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2107	Mr. Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2108	President-in-Office, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on this line presented by colleague Vjerica Radet, the remaining time for the SPS-JS MPs will not be used, since we, and our authorised representative, Dusan Bajatovic, and all of us, have made sufficient arguments and pointed out all the advantages of this agreement that the SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2109	Does anyone else want to use their right to Article 93? The Rules of Procedure, but he didn't use it in terms of time? Before we conclude a single search on the bill proposal, do the representatives of the motionor, Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, and Prof. Dr. Petar Skundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, want a word? Mr. Skundric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really think this is one of the most important days in the history of the political and parliamentary life of the Republic of Serbia. A high consensus has been reached, a high consensus on one of the most important projects ahead of Serbia. It is about the strategic and developmental most important project not only in energy, but in the overall economy and economy of the Republic of Serbia at all. The Serbian government is being given a serious task of effective approach to the negotiation of these matters arising from the Agreement and we will appreciate all the objections and proposals that MPs have made in this debate. I want to thank you honestly for the constructive approach and the contribution you have made to reaching an agreement to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2111	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Djelic wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2112	Thank you. I don't want to explain and answer all the questions. In any case, as envisioned by this agreement and by that Protocol concerning NIS and all MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it has been on the government of the Republic of Serbia since the time it was signed in January of this year, so it is available to all. A number of answers to the questions raised today are there. Is it possible to imagine an even better agreement? Yes, it's possible. Were these negotiations difficult? Yeah, they were heavy. Would it be easier if we agreed it wasn't the biggest gas company in the world? It would be. Would it be easier to agree on an oil section if it weren't for the third largest oil company to develop, which has one of the world's largest oil sites? It would be. Would it be easier, as the previous agenda point has shown, to sign an even better trade agreement with a smaller production and economy than the EU? Of course, but then we wouldn't have a market of half a billion consumers, as we couldn't make here and make an agreement with the largest gas industry company, we couldn't conclude an agreement with the third largest oil company in the world, we wouldn't be an equal participant with Italians, Hungarians, Bulgarians and all those already in the EU, it's repeatedly indicated in the discussion, in what will be one of the largest energy and infrastructure projects in Europe in the next decade. There's nothing for free, there's no love, no hate in interstate relations. There are naked interests, but these interests in this case are also fulfilled by the Republic of Serbia. This agreement is in Serbia's interest and we can take the parts and say it's a smaller company, if it wasn't for Russia, if it wasn't for this big project, we could get better conditions here. What has been gained is the possibility for our country to become an actor, after so many years, it has been said several times today, for 30 years in our infrastructure, most of what has been traditional since World War II was one of the great virtues of the former Yugoslavia, and that is investment in energy, it has not been. That regulation that introduced the monopoly in the oil processing helped NIS get into this situation that was today, but that can't be done suddenly. As we are opening up to Europe, we must also liberalise the oil derivatives market, and we only have two years left to prepare our refineries for this big game. And we have to in this case too, because energy is one sector where investment is gauge and where you have to prepare a game like chess. Some have made moves before us, INA, MOL, OMV, many other, certain investments have been made, we also have a purchase by the company, which is very close to "Gasprom", the leading refineries in Bosnia and we have to cut at this point. I'm not talking about it -- what if it were, what was the ideal world. Serbia today received 49% in these companies. It is true that Bulgaria received 50% in the pipeline, but it is also true that Bulgaria is the place where the pipeline enters the pipeline, and then it can go towards Romania, it can go towards Greece, and you can imagine other routes. And Bulgaria is at the same time a participant in the second part of the energy deal for them, which is not seen here, they are building twice a thousand megawatts of two nukes with the Russians in years to come. And Greece, at the same time, did not talk about it, did, there are 50%, but at the same time it was a big job in the military industry that Greece has with the Russian Federation and the prime minister of Greece has been in the Kremlin three times in the last year. So much for imagining what would be. Of course, when we look at the situation, we need to see where our country is, what are its options and what we do at this real moment. At this real moment, this agreement is in Serbia's interest and the next steps are and how important, we need to work out the situation around HIP Petrochemia. Yes, we are also talking about a social contract that will follow this agreement. Of course we have to be able to box up the home energy treatment that comes to our territory and that means it'll be cheaper. In a word, we have until the end of the year, if the honourable MPs ratify this agreement, to clarify all the elements of both the gas and the oil arrangements, and other elements for our economy, for our citizens, there have already been a lot of words about it. And that is why I invite you to ratify this agreement. He returns Serbia to the strategic energy branch at the big door.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-05-0.u2113	Dear People's MPs, allow me to express my gratitude before I conclude a unique search of the bill's proposal for excellent quality participation in the debate of all MPs, promoters. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in general. We'll be working on Monday at 12:00. Let's wish Jelena success. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 124 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Daniel Petrovic. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Zarko Milicevic, adviser to the finance minister, urged him to attend this session. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move on to a joint single search of 4 - 14th item of the agenda: – SUMMARY OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE BODIES, ENERGETAL EfficientITY, INDICATION AND CONCERNATION OF THE POSITIONS, REFORM OF THE POSITION AND DONATION OF THE PORSE) AND THE CONTRIBUTION (SANATION OF THE MOST "GAZEL", REHABILITATION OF THE ROADS AND MOSTS, CLINIC CENTRI) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals of the law under points 4 - 14 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint single search reminds you that, pursuant to Article 149a of Article 3, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of individual parliamentary groups. Since the total time of debate in principle for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the MEP group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds, and the PUPS group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them: the SPS - JS Milan Nikolic and Mrs Donka Banovic - DSS - Vojislav Kostunica. In accordance with Article 149a(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ('Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project'') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on the Protection of the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of the Republic of Serbia (Framework Rehabilitation of the Treaty) - Proposal for the Treaty on the Protection of the Bank between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank of Serbia (Framework of the Bank of Serbia) – Proposal for a Law on the Refunding of the Republic of Serbia (Addddddition of the Energy Fund for Serbia's Energy Efficiency for Serbia) between the Energy Efficiency of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia' (Franding of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia) and the Republic of Croatia's Funding of Croatia's Fund for the Fund for the Fund for Development, - Proposal for the European Fund for Development, - Proposal for the Law for the Law for the Implementation of the Treaty, Proposal for the Treaty, Are the representatives of the Proposer... According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Aligrudić.
