ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9151	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a SITES AND COUNTRIES OF THE COURT AND PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (the follow-up in particular) Yesterday's Workday of the Third Session of the National Assembly stood in the debate in the details of Article 3, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Željko Tomic. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am calling for article 101, in part, and for Article 104 for Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's presentation. I publicly thank Srdjan Milivojevic for yesterday's presentation. He is extremely valuable to us, Serbian radicals, as well as to Serbian citizens. Yesterday, Srdjan Milivojevic best confirmed everything we have claimed since the creation of the DS government, i.e. the ZES and SPS. Srdjan Milivojevic here, without any hesitation, called all those who were in government, traitors and responsible for everything that happened in 1999, or until 2000. I don't think he shared, so he said, "You from JUL, you from the SRS, you weren't good, and you from the SPS were good guys." I think we were in the same basket. Then the question arises, who is lying to the citizens of Serbia? Apparently, Srdjan Milivojevic is not lying, but then he lies to Boris Tadic. Then Boris Tadic lies to Serbian citizens. Boris Tadic shows Serbian citizens that everything is a lie and a fraud. There's no ideology. All that matters is power. Who's asking you where he's been, what he's been doing! It's important that we continue to rule, to cover up all the crime and all the thefts that have been done so far, to continue doing the same work. It's the most important thing for us. Gentlemen of the DS, I ask you a question - did you sign any reconciliation declarations? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from place: not with you) So you share. I can see that, Srdjan, but they should hear and see Serbian citizens. How can you do that? What are the criteria on which you determine? We're not running away from responsibility, if there's a responsibility, but you have to admit that our stake in power, however, was relatively smaller, much shorter, rather than the SPS. I don't know what the criteria are for you when you decide. Obviously, these criteria that I have cited – only to hide crime, theft, to continue it, regardless of what Serbia is falling into ruin. You don't care about that. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Time) Yes, you are interested in time. You are not interested in the fact that within two months, Serbian citizens lost more than 70 billion just on loans they took because your parents said that the money is solid, that they should be saved in dinars and that they should not be taken into account the global economic crisis, because we will earn money on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9153	Anyone else want a word about the amendment? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one in a series of over 100 amendments tabled on 19 members of the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. The amendment tabled by counterpart Sinisa Stamenkovic is about what all the amendments submitted by the MPs are, and it is certainly important to stress that the amendment was also given by MPs of the parliamentary majority and MPs of the opposition to this bill. If fellow MPs of the assembly majority, who have explained their amendments here, very argumentably, we Serbian Radicals were willing to support them, if, therefore, these colleagues, in the day of voting, acted as they do here, when they say they represent citizens from where they come from, when they represent the interests of their fellow citizens – if they showed it in the day of voting, quite certainly, this law could not possibly pass, or could not be voted. I have no intention of calling anyone individually, but I warn the citizens of Serbia, the people who are following the work of this Parliament, to take care of when this law is passed in the voting day – to be aware that their MPs, from their places, deceive them. They come out here, and they publicly say that this law is extremely bad, they say, and which is why it is bad, they say, for courts in their small places, but in the day of voting, they will vote that this law will pass and that everything we have been saying for days will happen in the area of justice if this law enters into force on 1 January 2010. Serbian citizens can't be deceived, you know? Although these buttons are not seen when voted, it should be clear to the citizens that only representatives of the SRS are responsible for true, namely against this law and against the destruction of the judiciary, through the application of these and this law. As we say, that's how we're going to act in the voting day. As you can see, we're also talking about those places where we don't live, because we truly care that something positive happens in the judiciary, that justice by the Ministry of Justice, all the employees in the judiciary, create the right conditions, first of all, that they can do their job. Then, to lead a serious fight against corruption and crime in the judiciary. Of course, we don't think everyone in the area of justice is corrupt. A small number of judges and prosecutors who are corrupt, run by those from the government of the Republic of Serbia, run by tycoons, but most of the judicial employees are honest and honest people. None of the MPs who spoke here reminded us of something very ugly – as the Minister said, when she explained these laws in the principle debate – that one of the reasons why courts in small towns are abolished is that judges in small towns are more vulnerable to corruption, because they probably know each other there. It is a great insult to all judges and prosecutors who perform those functions in those small towns in Serbia. You know, honest people take even more care of when they live in a small environment – that someone wouldn't be on the street, after them, or some of their family members, said they were corrupt, that they were criminals. So that can't possibly be an argument. More like someone's gonna hide in big Belgrade, or thinks they can hide and do some dirty work for the government, than someone in a small place does. So, what Madam Minister has put here as an argument is a great insult to all the honorable judges and prosecutors in all the small towns of Serbia, which the assembly majority now wants to abolish, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment of counterpart Milice Radovic, one of the first amendments in this group, is certainly an amendment that should be voted upon by all MPs who have advocated, if they have sincerely advocated, to remain a judicial network, or judicial network, as it is now in Serbia, because there are no conditions, ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia for the application of this law that you today and these days offer to the MPs. You won't take care of what this law actually means. We are convinced that even though we have been discussing these amendments for a few days, this law will never come into force. You'll manage to rip it up somehow and vote, but it's hardly going to happen to apply this law, because there are a lot of preconditions that should be met. I remind, above all, Serbian citizens and all those employed in the area of justice that we have had a major problem in Serbia twice in the last eight years, when it comes to the judiciary. Of course, I'm not talking about those two long periods when we didn't have a Constitutional Court. In fact, we don't even have a full Constitutional Court today, we have 10, instead of 15 judges. These five judges who are to be in the Constitutional Court, which is why I am now mentioning, are related to the existence of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which may one day be established, but until then, we have a clumsy Constitutional Court. It is the Constitutional Court directly governed by Boris Tadic, because he was chosen in this way. I remind you of how these 10 judges of the Constitutional Court were elected - five were voted here by the assembly majority, and on the proposal of Boris Tadic, five, on the proposal of the assembly majority, Boris Tadic. Let the citizens of Serbia evaluate now whose constitutional court it is. For the five remaining, who have not yet been elected, it could be said that in some most democratic way they could be elected, but unfortunately, this will not happen soon, because these laws will not come into force. So I remind myself of the period when we were twice in a row, when Serbia's judiciary had been collapsed twice, when there was general panic among citizens and amongst the employees of the judiciary, because we had one period when some previous laws were to come into force, so there were no time-consuming deadlines, and then it happened that in certain disputes citizens could not file complaints, because employees in the judicial administration and neither the presidents of the courts knew which courts were competent to decide on these complaints. The deadlines have been missed, there has been a general chaos, and you will only cause chaos in Serbia's judiciary with these laws and laws. You should also know that taking care of the fact that all those people who are employed in the area of justice in small towns, by applying this law, will be out of a job. Some judges and some prosecutors that you do not lute, may go to the district court headquarters and, perhaps, get a job, but employees at the judicial administration -- everyone will be out of a job and it is necessary for the citizens of Serbia to know that. Why am I saying this? Because Madam Minister, in the principle debate, you know, that principle debate was a long time ago, so maybe we forgot, and that's why it's necessary to remind ourselves, she said the court records would also be in the seats of these new courts. So no one will be in court in that small place, in some municipal court now; in those 104 places where you abolish municipal courts will not be employed by anyone from the judicial administration. All citizens from those small towns will have to go to the district headquarters, maybe a hundred miles away, to hand over any act that has to go through the register. The question is, and no one was talking about it, whether and in what way, in fact, where the records will be kept, where the citizens of one place, which is from the district headquarters where the court seat will now be 100 kilometers away, will be able to obtain the most ordinary confirmation that he is not punished, and that certificate is needed for some personal reasons? He's going to have to travel a hundred miles to apply, to come home or sleep there, so he'll go back to that confirmation in two days, because, as you know, as much as you boast that you've upgraded some of the systems in the courts, you didn't do it. You're not in the MUP either, and you're not doing it on purpose, not because you're not able to network both courts and the MUP, but because it doesn't suit you, for the simple reason we've been talking about since 2000, when you from the DS, at the RIK sessions, supported the SRS' proposals, to finally introduce a single electoral list in Serbia. You deliberately deceive citizens that this is not possible, because you fail to network courts and the MUP and, of course, local self-government units. So, that there was hearing from the government of the Republic of Serbia, if, in general, the ministers communicate with each other, given that they are now obsessed only with who will get more money in the budget, and not the money that will mean something to the citizens of Serbia, but who will be able to pay more advisers and assistants within the ministry. It's the only thing government officials are dealing with right now. If we were to seriously think about what we've been talking about for days and what makes some of the ruling majority angry that we are discussing these extremely serious laws, then this law would have to be withdrawn from the procedure. There have been a lot of suggestions that all of these laws are withdrawn from the procedure, as you call it – a set of judicial laws, but this law is clearly an undivided opinion among the MPs that it is not good. The law will bring chaos to the judiciary, this law will bring up several thousand more unemployed in Serbia, several thousand families without pay, and only what kind of problem will Serbian citizens, who will have to go by justice for a hundred and more kilometers, will see it only when, and if this law comes to pass. Once again we appeal to a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not the end of the world, this law is not a condition for you, this law is a whim of someone who has thought to leave several tens of thousands without a job. This law should be withdrawn immediately. If we don't waste our time, or we don't waste our time convincing you to do it yourself, you'll do something good for the judiciary. What you call reform is the collapse of justice and chaos in Serbia's judicial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9155	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9156	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, In 225 and 226, and I am taking this opportunity to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I have asked in previous days, in previous weeks – when will the State Auditing Institution get its place to work? On October 10th, the Prime Minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, said the problem of space for the State Auditing Institution was resolved and that it will finally be able to realise its function as a reviewer and control of state spending. Today is December 5th, so two months from that statement, and there's nothing from that space. I'm going to ask this question today, and I'm going to ask it the next day, every day several times, until I get a valid answer, because I didn't get the answer. Rest assured, unless this problem is resolved by the end of this month, when more than 20 auditors are due to be admitted to work, to control the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that there will be problems with the adoption of the budget, because we have no right to allow uncontrollable spending of state money. If there is no room for the State Auditing Institution, this means that this government is hypocritical and that it does not want to assign space and if it publicly promises it. In the area to be obtained by the State Auditing Institution, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is located, and I know reliably that Minister Svetozar Ciplic does not want to move out of it. Therefore, a member of the government does not want to allow this important institution to start working and to control the spending of state money. If this problem is not resolved, there will be many problems in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9157	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. A representative of the Proposer has accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, with a correction. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted an amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 3, the amendment with correction was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9158	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Justice, just to remind you that we started this session on November 5th, a month ago, and, if I'm not mistaken, today is the 18th working day in this agenda. After all, when the public debate was left before these laws were passed in the Serbian Parliament, it is not burning that we here try to correct many legislative proposals that are on the agenda. That, to a large extent, the DSS MPs went after the hand, as far as the previous laws are concerned. We pointed out in the principle debate that the lack of public debate on these laws left a mark on the quality of the law. In fact, one round table in February, one in September, really, wasn't enough for all these laws to be seen in the right way. Also, we had a chance to see the drafts of these laws on the Justice Department website. Then one of the very important laws in this set of judicial laws was withdrawn from that Justice Ministry site, so that after a few days there would be a completely changed concept, with this proposal that, from 138 currently existing courts in Serbia, the figure would be reduced to 34. We also pointed out all objections by the Venice Commission to a set of judicial laws. We cannot behave, when it comes to certain laws, in a way that we hear from the representatives of the Ministry of Justice that, when it comes to the State's Major Prosecutors, which was an explicit request from the Venice Commission, some of the provisions are as they are in the law and are therefore accepted, and that through some others, which we have indicated, have simply crossed over and not been respected. What is a fact, is that all the effects of this law are not best seen, that no detailed analysis of the necessary conditions and means necessary for these laws to be applied in practice has been made. We also pointed out that this is not how a more rational network of courts is achieved, that this is a great danger, above all, because of the emptying of border areas in the Republic of Serbia, that this is an important political issue. If Mrs. Milice Radovic's amendment, DSS MPs, is not accepted, we will have huge problems in the coming year. I'm not sure this concept will come to life since 1 January 2010. Something tells me next year we'll have a chance to discuss the amendments and additions to this law. The fact is that on this proposal of the law, as MPs, regardless of whether it is MPs of the ruling majority, or opposition MPs, we have tabled a huge number of amendments and, as stated in the principle debate, this law cannot be followed through amendments. We tried to explain our intentions, our proposals, our amendments, which we really wrote for the best purposes. This problem can be overcome by the adoption of only one amendment, which will retain an existing network of courts and allow all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to carry out everything they have to do in courts in their municipalities, and because of the availability of justice, and because of the rationalisation of costs, and for all else, and I will prove it to you in the next few minutes. We also suggested, in talks with Ministry representatives, that the number of appeals courts be changed. If we go with the concept that every MP is looking for his city, for his municipality, and the municipal court, and the district court, and the Court of Appeals, that's not good, but we think this proposal with four appeals court could have been extended, at least, some other departments. We have proven in the principle debate that it would be good if there were a department of the Court of Appeal both in Cacak and in Zajecar and in some other cities, precisely because of the availability of justice, because of the reduction of costs and the more efficient functioning of the judiciary itself. What is most important, that Serbian citizens can, anything they need to end up in courts, do in a simpler way. The fact is that some of the criteria mentioned here by the Ministry's representative, Mrs Malovic, regarding traffic infrastructure, the size of municipalities, the number of inhabitants and the number of cases, were not taken into account because it is not our idea to now compare certain municipalities that need to get their courts at the expense of some who need to abolish those courts because they have fewer cases, or fewer people. It's not a serious concept and the only solution to this is not to change the existing network. To prove to you, respected representatives of the ministry, that we have really taken this problem seriously, the DSS parliamentary group had in mind the report on the work of the Supreme Court of Serbia, with a demonstration of the work of the courts of general jurisdiction. We also studied the administrative districts of Serbia, their size, their number and current network of courts, as it now works. We've been studying the most representative ethnic communities in the municipalities since 2002, according to the list, and here we have arguments that go in favor of what I'm talking about right now. The area of municipalities in kilometers, the number of settlements, the number of inhabitants, according to the 1991 census, even in 2002, as well as the arguments of the DSS stand absolutely. The report on the work of municipal courts, the best rate of urgency, the worst rate of urgency, the quality of work, the percentage of abolished decisions, the highest average inflow of cases, the smallest average inflow of cases, also the report on the work of district courts for the first six months of 2008, the average inflow in district courts in 2007, the average inflow in municipal courts for 2007. The Supreme Court's report for the period from January to December 2007 – how many cases were received, as far as was resolved, whether in the civil department, criminal, executive. The size of the municipalities, I can show you, later on I will say that certain municipalities with a small number of inhabitants, which certainly belong to the largest municipalities on their surface, are left without courts. In this material, there is a review of all 138 courts in the Republic of Serbia, with a list of new cases, how much has been resolved, how unsolved, in investigations, guilt, litigation, outsiders, in executions. If we're going to read that data now, I think we can stay here for a very long time. Time, unfortunately, does not allow it, but I will try to remind you one more time and ask the representatives of the Justice Ministry to accept the DSS amendment submitted by Milica Radovic and we will overcome many problems in this way. On this law, like all the MPs of the DSS, I have tabled an amendment asking for the existing network to be kept in the Moravik and Shumadian district. Many of us have talked about certain courts in these districts. What's the idea is that in the Moravika district, these are municipal courts in Cačka, Gornji Milanovac, Guci and Ivanjica. Some MPs here have been saying that individual courts that exist for 100, 150 or 200 years, with this bill, are being abolished. The best example for that is Gornji Milanovac. In Gornji Milanovac, the first one was made, which became a court, and then a settlement was created around it. It's a court of great tradition. The citizens of Gornji Milanovac know best how much the municipal court means in their town, which will be abolished by this law. The same goes for the municipal court in Guca. It was about infrastructure facilities, the quality of individual buildings, the space that owns certain municipalities, what happens to them. We've been in a position to renovate some buildings in these municipalities over the past few years, and these courts, indeed, look great. What's going to happen in them now? Whether it will get the space of a particular political party that will have its offices in them, we will see that, but I don't think that element has been taken into account at all. What is very illustrative and can be interesting is the Court's problem in Ivanjica. The municipality of Ivanica belongs to the Moravia County. According to her current arrangement, she was tied to the Užice. I will remind you, in a few sentences, that it was one of the largest municipalities in Serbia, with an area of 1090 km2, that it was a very dissociative municipality, where individual villages, such as the rest, are 60 km away from the centre. It is now scheduled for Ivanica to be the primary court department in Požega, the head office of the police in Cačka, the District Court in Užica, the Industrial Court for Ivanjicans – in Cačka. I think this bill, if it is adopted, will cause a lot of problems for the citizens of Ivanjica. The appeals court is in Belgrade. In addition to Cacak, next to Kragujevac, people living 60km from the centre of Ivanjica will travel hundreds of kilometers to Belgrade to achieve some of their rights. I don't want to use this time to read all the data I've received, either from the president of the courts in these cities, or from citizens living in these municipalities, because I don't think that's necessary. Anyone who is well-intentioned realizes that there is a huge need to maintain such a solution. As far as the Shumadian County is concerned, the huge problem is also related to Racha, Topola, and Batocina, for all the places where these courts are now operating. If this law is passed, I think that, first of all, the Ministry of Justice, the employees of Serbia's judiciary and citizens will have extremely big problems, which they will not be able to remove over the next few years, until it realizes that this concept has been really missed, that it does not achieve any rationalisation, that there will be no savings. It was probably the idea to change a situation so far, justice is slow but affordable, and that this law tried to promote the principle that justice should be faster and faster. I am sure that, after the adoption of this law, if it passes in the Serbian Parliament, in the day of voting, justice will be slower and unattainable. Once again I call on you, it is not too late, withdraw this law from the procedure, let us also speak to the representatives of the judicial authorities, with the Society of Judges, with all relevant factors and significant institutions in this country that have offered certain solutions and certain answers. We will lose nothing by reviewing this bill and finding the best solution. I think that this is how we create problems that, apparently, at this point, no one in the Justice Department is able to see, otherwise this law would not be found before the MPs in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9159	The word is from Ambassador Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this number of amendments submitted to the opposition's proposal for this law, primarily, but also a number of amendments submitted by the post should be made to the Proposer to say some things. First of all, that the concept of this law is not good. For these reasons and for the reasons we have heard during the past days, this bill should be withdrawn from the congregation procedure. But I would talk, at first, about another aspect, which I think is a little bit neglected, which is next. What's this about? This number of amendments submitted by the opposition and the position raised one large cloud of dust. I have the impression that this cloud wants, in some way, to darken up something that is not thought about at this point and not talk enough, or talk about the past few days when the topic was a set of other judicial laws, and now it's not talking. The cloud that has been raised around this many amendments wants to dissipate, in fact, the lustration of judges, the way of the election, or re-election of judges, wants to sow the law on the regulation of courts, the other laws in the field of justice that have been on the agenda of the past days. I think this is about, in a way, imposed laws. Someone has imposed these laws on you, you in some way impose them on us, and after their adoption, they will be imposed on the courts and citizens of Serbia. The amendment, submitted by counterpart Petkovic, seeks to delete point 33), adding new ones, which, in fact, establish an earlier state of affairs with regard to municipal courts at the level of the Moravik and the Shumadian district. It is necessary to retain existing municipal courts for a number of reasons. I will, at first, focus on municipal courts, so far, in Moravia County, since they are the closest to me, although the reasons I will say about these courts apply to all the other municipal courts, as we have seen in the past days from the presentation of opposition MPs, and also from the MPs of the position. I will focus on the Municipality court in Gornji Milanovac, for which I believe that, like other municipal courts, it should remain and survive, for several reasons, although the first reason I will mention for this municipal court may not stand for everyone else. I'm not saying this is the most important reason, but it's one of the most important. What's this about? The municipal court in Gornji Milanovac celebrates 200 years of its existence this year. In 1808, the so-called so-called A mine magistrate, in order to establish a magistrate in Brusnica, today's Gornji Milanovac, 16 years later, in 1824. After that, the courts from surrounding cities are also being moved by the apparition of Prince Milos Obrenovic, Gornja Milanovac, and in 1856, Duke Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, also the surrounding courts of the transfer to Gornja Milanovac. So the Turks heard that these courts needed a paradise then. I think one of these arguments that I've highlighted stands and that this court, among other things, for this reason, besides the others I'm about to mention, should remain as a municipal court. The second element I'm going to talk about is territory coverage. The municipal court in Gornji Milanovac covers a territory of 836km square. There's about 50,000 inhabitants. A diameter of Gornji Milanovac, the municipality of Gornji Milanovac, is about 110 km away. There are 63 settlements and the largest distance from the seat of the Municipal Court is 65 km. So, by moving the Municipal Court to Gornji Milanovac to the Main Court of Cačak, which is 25 km away from Gornji Milanovac, we see that clients, witnesses, witches and all others will have to go from the farthest place on the territory of the municipality of Gornji Milanovac to the seat of the Municipal Court, about 100 km away. That's where the cost goes up. The next element I'm going to say is an analysis of the average inflow of objects. For a period of three years, 2005, 2006, 2007, the total inflow by all materials for the last three years is 48,174 items. So, the annual inflow is somewhere around 15,058 objects. Many of these arguments, particularly related to space and the average inflow of the case, stand for other courts in Moravika County, which are courts in Ivanjica and Guca, contribute to the fact that these courts should not be abolished. These are all reasons of principle and should not in any way be linked to certain cases that exist in almost all courts, which are related to the independence of individual judges, to the influence of individual local or extra-local tycoons on the trial and on judges, as well as the influence of the executive on judicial authority. That is why it has to be said very often, and we have also learned in contact with certain citizens of these municipalities, that people are a little dissatisfied with the work of certain judges, but there are these everywhere, these are individual cases, for the reasons of anger, revolt and so on. Some of these people cannot easily explain these arguments for the survival of these courts. So, for example, can he understand the arguments for the survival of the court in Gornji Milanovac, which has been celebrating 200 years, a certain Miodrag Bajic, who has been seeking his justice before this court and before the Court of Justice in Cačka for the last 14 years, who may well suspect that his case has been influenced by certain tycoons, whose case has so far been attended by 20 judges, in 160 hearings, where the costs of the case have increased multiplely, where the property melted for 14 years, according to his story, by about 500,000 euros? Such a man is difficult to explain these arguments about the survival of this court. However, this should not be mixed with those arguments that speak for the survival, that is, the rest of this and other courts. Indeed, no court should be honored to be biased in any case, as well as to succumb to the influence of the executive or local powers. As for the reduction of corruption and the influence of local tycoons on judges, which is one of the reasons you mentioned, I am sure that all those who are in some way dissatisfied with this court will not benefit when its seat is transferred, transferred to the Municipal Court in Cacca. It is normal that, as in other courts, there are individual cases of the influence of individual tycoons and executive authorities on the work of these judges. He and others will come to the Basic Court in Cačka, or the County Court in Cačka, and he can best know, again, that Tomović Milenko, who, after the cancellation of the labour contract, has also sought his justice in the court in a larger place, in Cačka for years. One court makes one decision. Then, the second court abolishes that decision and makes another decision. He's coming back again. This court makes a decision in his favour, so he returns to the court that makes the decision at its expense, in order to eventually reach the Supreme Court and that is the end. Someone has exerted influence, and the man has lost the dispute. No one knows what it was like for him and his family for all these years while he was looking for justice. The choice of judges, the abolition of courts and all these things that happen in the judiciary, do not instill confidence that the judiciary will be independent and independent. I have to say, all of this is shooting at the back of the poor and disfigured. These guys are still quiet and they're putting up with it. By when it's gonna be, we'll see. And the citizens of Serbia see, watching the transfer of the Assembly to the second channel of RTS, as you do, representatives of those who are daily impoverishing, who are exorcising from work, buying the budgets that they have acquired for years, those who have sold everything that could be sold in this country, those who promise the colorful lies before the elections, for example, 1000 euros of free actions, those who have driven many honest people into containers to look for their salvation, those who have given themselves millions of wages, and the poverty has nothing to live on, see that you, as representatives of these, are trying not to let the truth in the Serbian Parliament. You'll have to cancel their courts, and then you'll have to cancel their schools and eventually the church, and that's the end of it. It won't work. I'm sure. Listen to the voice of the people. Do you know what you'll hear? The people shut up. You know very well what it means when the Serbian people shut up. Madam Minister, we used to study and try to figure something out from Socrates' defense. See sometimes the defence of Dr Vojislav Seselj, who he demonstrates in The Hague. Without false modesty, you will see that the famous Socrates, with their defense, is not even his knee. You will see how by the power of your will, by the power of your steel, crystal clear arguments, by defending the brave volunteers of the SRS, it proves to the whole world, and especially to those who are constantly apologizing to someone, that we are not a genocidal people. You will see something else unrecorded in the history of criminal and legal theory and practice, which is that the defendant, according to the prosecution's witness's hearing, the witnesses of the defense are hardly necessary. This is unremembered because he has proved his innocence and the innocence of the Serbian people already in this part of the process. All those who have contributed that such a man has been there for six years, all those who wanted to stab him in the back, will see the next year when, thank God, he returns to Serbia, what the transformation from defence to attack looks like. He's the strongest one here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9161	Anyone else want a word? On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9162	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister Malovic, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors, to delete and add new points in Article 3 of the 14th Point, which reads "The Municipal Court in Kruševec, Municipality Court in Aleksandrovac, Municipality Court in Brus, Municipality Court in Varvarin for the territory of the Municipality of Varvarin and Cicevic, Municipality Court in Trstenik". Point 27 is deleted and new points are added, which read as "The Municipal Court of the County of Prokuplje municipality, Blace, Žitoraj and Merošin and the Municipality Court of Kursumlia". We have been here for the fourth day to discuss amendments to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors. We have 124 amendments, submitted by members, or MPs of opposition parties and MPs of ruling parties, suggesting that I am not good at the bill, and the amendment of our distinguished colleague, Milice Radovic, is the best proposal for a solution – that this law relating to the network of courts is withdrawn. Otherwise, when we talk about the network of courts and this amendment that I have submitted, I would first of all refer to two municipalities that are extremely important, and strategically, and in terms of some perspective for the Republic of Serbia. I mean the municipalities of Kursumli and Bruce, which rely on AP KIM, which are of exceptional importance, I repeat once again, of strategic importance. When we talk about the municipality of Kursumli, it is based on an administrative line of 105 km on the AP KIM. It is one of the largest territorial municipalities in all of Serbia, because it has 952 square kilometers. What is worrying is that according to the list of 1953, it had 39,772 inhabitants, and according to the 2002 census – 21,608 inhabitants, which suggests one danger, one trend, that huge spaces remain uninhabited, without any resident, or citizen in those areas. The municipality of Kursumli has 89 settlements and the town of Kursumli. It is also alarming that we already have four settlements, or formerly inhabited places, in which no more inhabitants live. Before I say anything about the consequences of such a decision and such a proposal for a law on a network of courts, I would say a few words about the municipality of Bruce, who also, by a line of 27 km, is relying on AP KIM. According to the list since 1953, the municipality of Bruce had 25,585 inhabitants. In 2002, the municipality of Bruce had 18,767 inhabitants. It is evident from the outset that many inhabitants have left these areas and, by the way, in the inhabited areas of these municipalities live, or exist, nursing households. By the way, the municipality of Brus is one of the territorially larger municipalities, because it has 606 km2 of area and 58 settlements. What is indicative and dangerous for both the municipality of Kursumli and the municipality of Bruce is that in these municipalities there are places far from the municipality seat, or Bruce, or Kursumlia, even more than 50 km away. Now I would also like to talk about the importance of institutions for these municipalities, both in economic and political terms. In small municipalities, when I say small municipalities, municipalities with a small number of inhabitants, it is a very bad message for these municipalities and for those residents if some state institutions are shut down, because it concerns the citizens of these municipalities, for the simple reason they are afraid that the next day they will shut down both schools and health institutions. It's a bad message for the citizens of these municipalities, because they take this as a message: you don't deserve to have a court, you're citizens of other work, we don't count on you, which has another consequential connection with all those who invested in these municipalities, and also with future investors. I think that the legislator and legislator had to take care of the specificity of all the environments, which all the MPs, above all, the opposition, talked about these days, about the importance of judicial institutions and the network of courts, more or less, for every community in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. A part of the ruling coalition's MPs said and pointed out that, besides economics, there is also a political story here, which can in due course have some bad consequences for these municipalities. The Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, said in his exposé ahead of us on July 7th that the government will take care of balanced regional development, and this is precisely what suggests that a terrible centralisation is being carried out, because of the 138 courts in Serbia, 104 are being extinguished and only 34 courts remain with the status of primary courts, and the rest are judicial units. There is no story of economics here, for the simple reason, that the disposal of courts in the county's headquarters drags behind them, and that the costs increase, both for those citizens living in municipalities where municipal courts are shut down, and for the judiciary itself, because the distance from one of them produces the costs of coming to the basic courts, and in other products the costs by making them go to remote places, specifically, for these districts that I'm talking about, that's over 50, 60 and 100 km, as well as interpreters, witches, and not to talk about the time factor for carrying out material evidence. Because if the county's headquarters are to go to certain places where there are certain crimes, then there's a danger of time as a factor, where certain evidence can be lost. As my esteemed colleague Shami said a few days ago, I think there's a danger here that we have fried earth syndrome, which has been applied by individual conquerors, which means, right now, that the settlements are being extinguished, that people are leaving their hearths. And people leave hearths when they don't have institutions, especially in small places, where most people are employed in both state and local institutions, and we have the part that deals with agricultural activity. Mrs. Malovic, you have also cited the influence of the local environment as one of the reasons for the justification of this bill. It's something that's not good, because, first of all, you discredit judges who live in these environments. At the same time, I will remind you of the example that I cited for the Kruševec District Court, which on the same day made two different judgments on the same case – the withdrawal of the mandate to DS committees in Bruce. One verdict was positive for those who complained, I mean the committees, and the second verdict was negative, which was in force, because the mandates were taken from those committees. People's MPs are representatives of all citizens, and this law should not be voted by MPs, regardless of political membership, because we, above all, are obliged to protect the interests of citizens, those who chose us to represent them here. For these reasons, the DSS, and I, as a DSS MP, expect you to withdraw this law and retain an existing network of courts, because this and the bad consequences suggest that both domestic and foreign professionals are not in line with European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9163	The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Rade, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the amendment of fellow Members Milos Radulovic is an amendment that should be accepted by the MPs. Before I say anything concrete about this amendment, I want to return to the amendment of fellow Members of Parliament Vladimir Milentijevic. I'll tell you why. You, in line with the Rules of Procedure, said that Vladimir Milentijevic, a MP, submitted an amendment to Article 3, that the amendments had been accepted by the competent committees, that the government's representative had accepted the amendment at the committee's session and that it had become an integral part of the law. It's absolutely fine and has our maximum support. Because of the public, Serbia's citizens, it must be known what Mr Vladimir Milentijevic's amendment contained and what the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed before the intervention with the amendment. counterpart Vladimir Milentijevic intervened on Article 3 and suggested that point 11 be deleted and a new point be added, and point 11 predicted that the main court in Kosovo Mitrovica be the only court for the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. A colleague Vladimir Milentijevic asked for the establishment of a basic court in Kosovo Mitrovica for the territory of the Kosovo-Mitrovina County, the basic court in Gracanica for the territory of the Kosovo District, the basic court in Gorazdevc for the Pećki District, the basic court in Ranilug for the Kosovo-Pomorava County and the basic court in Strpc for the Prizren County. The explanation given by counterpart Milentijevic, in one sentence, reads: "By abolishing 16 of the 17 basic courts in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, I believe that the Republic of Serbia is definitely withdrawing and weak state institutions in KIM, especially the institutions of the judiciary, and I therefore propose that basic courts be formed in the districts, in order to meet the needs of the Serb and all other population in Kosovo and Metohija that recognise the Republic of Serbia and the laws of our country. "The question I want to talk about and what I want to ask, first of all, Mrs Malovic, is – what would happen if my colleague Milentijevic had not been amended to this member? Would then only the Kosovo Mitrovica Court be in charge of all courts in Kosovo and Metohija? What, in fact, was behind the very dangerous proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? We base our suspicions and assume that this is how the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it is slowly disowning Kosovo and Metohija, that all the judiciary wanted to place in Kosovo Mitrovica, which is the only place in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija that has no significant problems compared to other parts of KIM. What did you think, in which way did you communicate people from these places that were cited by fellow Milentijevic, from Gracanica, Gorazdevac, Ranilug, Strpc and other places, how could people come for these functions that the judicial authorities have, that they might come, sometimes and every day to Kosovo Mitrovica? Are you aware of what your proposal meant and why you did not intervene yourself, how dare you come to the National Assembly with such a proposal? Serbian citizens must know that the Serbian government is doing something behind the back, apparently, of Serbian citizens and of this parliament. We have been insisting for months, since June, on the agenda of this parliament, on a question, i.e. a resolution concerning Kosovo and Metohija. We haven't gotten a rational explanation yet, which is why it doesn't come to the agenda. Through these proposals, the government is trying to get through what we see and hear, and, unfortunately, as MPs, we're getting informed from the media. We from the media learn that someone is talking and negotiating some conditions under which the Eulex mission could exist and be established in Kosovo and Metohija territory. None of the MPs, or perhaps some of the MPs of the people, but the MPs who make up Parliament do not know who authorized the government, who gave some frameworks from which it could not come out. The National Assembly wasn't, and it was under obligation. So I purposely wanted to talk about this amendment in this way, first of all, to thank my fellow Milentievich on behalf of all MPs. I wanted Serbian citizens to know what the government of the Republic of Serbia was up to and what could have happened to the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija if this amendment had not appeared. Speaking of the judiciary in Kosovo and Metohija, I spoke two days ago, and before that last week, our colleague Ljubomir Kragovic, about the mandates of the So Leposavic council members who were kidnapped and returned to the SRS by a judicial verdict of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica. Two days ago, RIK was in session. RIK members, or a number of RIK members, did not want to implement the district court's ruling in Kosovo Mitrovica. A member of RIK, or deputy member, which in no way reduces responsibility, is Mrs. Snezana Malovic, minister of justice. When I said two days ago that she was a member of the commission, Mrs. Malovic corrected me and said she was a deputy member. She also has responsibility as a deputy member and as a minister of justice and has had to insist that the verdict be carried out. Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic promised counterpart Ljubomiru Kragovic last week that it would be held at the RIK agenda session. Now, I'm asking, I don't know if Mrs. Djukic will be coming to the Assembly Hall, but, if she does, that I wouldn't report to the Rules of Procedure then, I am now inviting her to inform us as soon as she comes to the gym when RIK will make its decision, which will, in fact, apply the ruling of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica. When it came to the amendment recently referred to by fellow Milos Radulovic, who also submitted the amendments, indeed, in a specific case, when it came to the territory of the municipality court in Krusevec and the municipal court in Prokuplje, a colleague of Radulovic presented a number of concrete things, as a man who knows exactly what distances are between these places, how many cases, how many judges, how many employees in the administration, or judicial administration. Anything to add to this would be excessive, but it is necessary, I call on all MPs, all MPs, to talk about every amendment, first of all, because of Serbia's public and to try, in a way, to convince Mrs. Minister that this law is withdrawn from the procedure. It is unlikely that Mrs Malovic is not responding, and you have heard so many times, Mrs Malovic, in these few days, that this law must be withdrawn from the procedure. Not only did you hear it from the opposition MPs, only from the SRS MPs, but you heard it from all MPs, even the ruling coalition MPs. This number of amendments and reasons put forward by the MPs, Mrs Malovic, would have to make you think that you would withdraw this law from the procedure, to do a bill that would satisfy, at least, most of the MPs, or most of the citizens in Serbia, because if you adopted such a law, you were not there this morning when I said you would, Mrs Malovic, chaos in the judiciary. You'll leave thousands of people out of work, thousands of families without pay, profits. In this economic situation, in this social misery, something like that, in your place, I would never allow myself. It is not only that, it is also that, imagine, Serbian citizens, the minister of justice, the government of the Republic of Serbia will abolish 104 courts. Imagine what it means in Serbia, how big it is, 104 courts less. How do you think such slow justice will be realised in Serbia through the network of courts you're offering us? I understand that you have some goals, that you have arrangements with someone, that you represent the government, but tell your colleagues in the government that there is general dissatisfaction in Serbia, because they have no idea. They are not dealing with this now, they are dealing with whether they will get more money in the budget of Mladja Dinkic, but not for the citizens of Serbia, but for themselves, their cabinets, their assistants, their advisors, and you do not know what they will give you, because you are here with us every day in the Assembly. It will give you something that will remain, and what remains will not be enough, Mrs. Malovic, for the application of these laws. However, this law will not apply in this year, and we are doing it back-to-back, and in extended working hours, and in days that are not within the Rules of Procedure, as if it will enter into force on 1 January 2009, and it enters into force only on 1 January 2010. I'm sure that won't happen. Once again, I appeal to all fellow MPs who have submitted the amendments, not to have submitted the amendments just to see the citizens from this place support, or to transfer their views, to show it in the voting day and to vote against this bill, because, if they do not, we must inform the citizens of Serbia that their representatives deceive them. Because when you vote, then citizens don't see who puts a finger on which button. But if all the MPs who have submitted amendments to this bill do not vote in favour of the law, if they are consistent with themselves, this law cannot be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9165	The People's Messenger Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Justice, I would like to support the amendment of Milos Radulovic, especially for these two border municipalities bordering from the AP Kosovo - the municipalities of Bruce and Kursumli. The territorial principle must be respected. I'm just going to tell you that the municipality of Bruce is the eighth per surface in all of Serbia, and the municipality of Kursumli, the second per surface. So you have to keep in mind the territorial principle. I must say that from the farthest village of the municipality of Brus to Kruševac there is 104 km, and if a municipal court is to be abolished in Brus, it means that people from border villages with the province must take a night in Krusevec and be tried for two or three days, which is inadmissible in the 21st century. I also have to say that there are 150 years of municipal court in Bruce. There is a historical fact – in 1908, in the building of today's court and municipality, the Balkan accord between Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, Janko Vukotic, is supported by the Serdar of Montenegro, the Bulgarian Emperor of Hamburg. Therefore, the abolition of the municipal court in Bruce is difficult for the citizens of my municipality. It is one message for emigration, given that we are bordering, about 30km, with the province of Kosovo. Once again, I ask you to support the amendment of Milos Radulovic and consider this territorial principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9167	Thank you, too. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9168	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, is on the agenda of another bill that should reform our judiciary. However, before entering the procedure of this law, the government had to answer several questions: on the basis of which criteria this network of courts was passed, since, by adopting this law, it would be put out around 39 municipal courts, and 19 would become departments; 300 to 400 judges would lose their jobs, they would no longer work? Bureaucracies, which served them in some municipal courts, will also lose their jobs. What are we gonna do with these people? How are we going to take care of these people, how are we going to take care of the judges, and how are we going to change them, because according to the Constitution, it's very difficult to replace the judge, because it's a permanent category? What you should have handled was the specificities of certain regions and therefore you should have evenly deployed this network. I will talk about my end, about the Jablanic district, about the south of Serbia, which is one of the most underdeveloped districts in Serbia, which has 242,000 inhabitants, 336 settlements, stretches to 277km square, has six municipalities and, as far as your problems are concerned, has three municipal courts. With this draft law, you are terminating two municipal courts and setting up departments, these are the Municipal Court in Lebanon and the Municipal Court in Vlasotinc. The specificity of my ending is that it's the end of where people move from. In fact, from southern Serbia, from Jablani County and the whole region is moving annually, these are statistics, from 20 years ago, so it's been permanently moving 2,200 people out of that space. If you calculate, 40,000 people have moved out in the last 20 years. Also, the geostrategic position of the Jablanic district is important because, on the one hand, it borders Bulgaria and, on the other hand, the administrative border of KIM. If you shut down the court for people living in those mine areas, the fact is that you're sending a certain signal, a message from the government that they need to be moved from that area. If someone remembers to take away their school, to shut down their school, to shut down their infirmary, then it's a condition that these people move out of those areas. You should also take care of the national structure of certain municipalities, because we have heard from previous experience that you have abolished, that you have abolished the courts in the municipalities of Bujanovac and Presevo, which are multinational environments, and that you are sending a bad message to Europe, which is precisely seeking to reconcile all these minorities and to live together in one place. I'll tell you what. A little while ago, on the subject of population migration, I said that around 2,200 residents are moving out of the area annually. How does physics not know about empty space – who do you think will move into that space? These are specificities that you and how you should have taken care of when you built this network of courts. I've submitted the amendment to Article 3. 15 and 22. In this amendment, I wanted the municipal courts in Vlasotin and Lebanese to remain. I'm going to tell you in an argument why my intensity is like that. The Municipality of Vlasotince also covers the municipality of Crna Trava and has a total of 73 settlements. The farthest place from the Municipality of Vlasotince is 70km away, and it is in the municipality of Black Trava. If you cancel that court in the Municipality of Vlasotince, and you have another 20 to 30 kilometers to Leskovec, it means you need someone to come to court. Since it's a mountainous end and, when it's big winter, some places are ten to fifteen days wrapped, it can't get through to them, I expect you to accept this amendment and this argument of mine. The Municipality of Vlasotince, too, i.e. the Municipality Court of Vlasotince has 10 judges, plus a president, and has about 3,000 cases a year, and that is one of the arguments for the survival of this municipal court. I'd like to ask you something, this retroactive, since I haven't tabled an amendment to Article 2. I received a letter from the president of the municipality of Black Trav Slavoljub Bagovic, who asked to remain the section for the violation in the municipality of Crna Trav, because there was a department before, i.e. to remain at the Court of Justice in Leskovec. By the way, the departments are in Medvedja, Majornik, Leban, the court in Leskovec and Vlasotanc, while the Black Grass, as the only municipality, the sixth, has run out of department. In that sense, I ask you, if you can, to meet the president of the municipality, because it is the smallest municipality in Serbia, a municipality that has 2,200 inhabitants. I just told you, if we look at this demographic thing -- it's one of the oldest municipalities in Serbia. The Municipality court of Lebana has 119 settlements and has about 13,000 cases a year, which is a good recommendation for this court to remain, that it can continue to deal with this problem, and is closely related to the municipality of Medvedja, which is a border seat, a multinational environment. In that sense, I expect you to keep this court as a municipal court. I have also submitted an amendment to Article 3nd point 22, where the citizens of the Pomorava County, especially Despotovac and Mupre, are dissatisfied with this network of courts. Among other things, the court in Despotovac was founded in 1931, meaning that 77 years, in continuity, worked. Despotovac municipality has about 34,000 inhabitants and the municipal court has nine judges, plus the president. So it's the same size as the County Court in Turkey. It's the third court of size in the Pomorava County. Citizens of the Pomoravsky County also appeal to you, appeal to the government that these courts stay and not be departments, but to be primary courts. I know that you are in a dilemma, however, if you are in a dilemma, it is best to accept the amendment of my colleague, Milice Radovic. That's what my other opposition colleagues, my party colleagues from the DSS Parliament Club, have potentiated. I think it is the best solution or, if you do not accept Mrs Radovic's amendment – to withdraw this law from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9169	Thank you, Mr. Pejcic. Mr. Zoran Krasic answered the words, so Mr. Zoran Antic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9170	I have this material quite, rather, but because of the absence of the National Assembly president, I have to find a link to this amendment, so that this debate on the bill and amendments would be interesting and a little instructive not only for MPs, but also for citizens who follow the transfer of the National Assembly. It's a good thing they're following, because according to this paperwork I get every day, I see that this point is misleading the attention. At first, I'm going to have to submit the amendment, if I may say so, to correct a little bit, to specify some of the things he stated during his presentation. He said how many judges and court staff would lose their jobs because of this transformation. You must understand that from the point of view of this government and the projection of the budget, as is done by the government of Boris Tadic, every state official is a cost. Since the budget needs to cut costs, then unless there's a DS membership card, G17 plus, it's going to get a kick and that's that ideology. All those who get fired or fail will probably get some severance, how to resolve their working-law status. Then they enter the company of the chosen, where he was, say, Sutanovac, who received a severance payment not to work in the federal administration, and now he's the defence minister. So all civil servants of the court, judges, prosecutors who have not passed, who are not yet retired, get severance and meet the basic condition that they can be ministers. When a Shutanian can do it, why can't someone else? It's a message -- everyone in the DS -- that's where all the problems are going to be solved. I would have to draw attention, according to at least what I gave Mr. Novakovic and some newspaper texts, it turns out that even the Supreme Court Supervisory Board has found that some judges do not have a judicial exam. That's the kind of text I delivered you. (The emissary gives the President's texts. Here, that's where the police car is. This is the picture where the police car is and writes – a judge without a judicial examination. I'm not going to use name data right now. I'll give this to the Minister later, so let him see. If this is true as news, so I'm not talking about the court at all, or the name, I don't need to do it, because it hasn't been checked, but when it's published in the paper, it's probably a high degree of accuracy present, if there are such cases, it has to be removed first. There's also a letter from the Department of Justice where that name, that woman's sex, with her name and last name, doesn't appear in the record that she passed a judicial exam and came to the judge of the District Court. But, well, that's for you to handle. There's probably such a phenomenon, and it's got to be solved. I must draw attention to the fact that if this kind of organisation of the courts and public prosecutors is put in the context of the zero composition of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, it can really cause some problems. Simply, I'm worried about the judiciary, if Bosko Ristic, as a lawyer, personally interested in deniable matters, as an MP and a member of the DS, the chairman of the Justice Committee, acting by office, becomes the two very important bodies in the zero system. Then you can imagine how this kind of benefit can be reflected and satisfied by some of his personal interests in certain territories. His territory is probably Leskovac and the surrounding area. That's the connection to this amendment. It's a big problem. Just to draw your attention, Mrs. Malovic, I'll hand over this paperwork later. This is the documentation provided by my employees in the Republika Srpska Civil Directorate. I gave that letter yesterday, asked it to multiply and, of course, it's not multiplied, it won't be shared with the MPs, and I decided to give you one copy of the accompanying file. There you will find your party comrades, Dragan Djilas, Grujic, then this Zlatanović from Leskovec, and that is the link to the amendment, since he was the head of the Directorate. You'll find some media that got space, you'll find some media executives who got apartments. Of course, I'm giving it to you as a sign of correctness, to get involved in a general campaign against crime, but I'm going to deliver this to the press, so if you block it, I guess some reporter will publish it, because it's impossible not to publish. So you have this material to look at, especially from the point of view of unintended use of funds. I draw your attention that an apartment belonging to the National Assembly has gone to guard, to be distributed to the people of the National Assembly. One apartment dedicated to the National Assembly, to be shared with employees, this August this year, thanks to the Directorate and new staff solutions in the Directorate, since it has now become a housing cooperative, has gone, by one special arrangement, to guard one of the officials, so that these competitions you make for civil servants and tenants can be freely tied to the cat on the tail. The important thing is that you're a member of the DS, and it's a link to my speech here yesterday, when I quoted you to the provisions of the Constitution that prohibit this kind of political domination. Of course, I also have for Mr. Micunović, since he was talking here a few days ago, throwing something out of place, just to remind you, Mrs. Malovic, since I now understand why you changed the impression of DS ideology, so Mr. Milivojevic entered the post of Mr. Micunović. Here's what the Bureau of Criminal Police said, August of this year, about one interest. And I'm going to multiply that for the media, the record of the Budgetary Inspection, and everything that was done in repairing the Federal Assembly. I never lie, remember. Let me just read the ending. It is said: "On 26.12.2007, a report was submitted to the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office, the number of which, on the checks carried out under the said request for the collection of the necessary information (on 15 pages), with the accompanying documentation." In signature, Mladen Spasic, you from the DS, a very dear man named Mladjan Dinkic, whose order was to control the material and financial operations of the Federal Assembly when the president of the Council of Citizens was Mr Micunovic. That's why there's a reasonable doubt that the money's gone somewhere. I'm not saying anything, as I just said, these are information obtained from citizens, with documentation. I have reason to doubt and to seek the answer of the national authorities. In this Building Directorate, pay particular attention to the dedicated use of funds, I am personally interested in it. Mrs. Malovic, to inform you, that court delivery guy didn't come here to sign this indictment. It's supposed to come somehow to get these deadlines going. Because of the public, and I'm going to share this with the press, because I want to make that trial a circus, with one 60 lawyers and with witnesses; it will be a complete composition of the government and all ministers from 2001 to today. Of course, in this respect, I will also need final accounts for 2001, 2002 and 2003, with regard to the dedicated use of funds from individual budget positions, for Serbian citizens to understand, among other things, those who are assessed by the Americans as Serbian nationalists, and so am I. It's like this - because, in the case of, for example, If he gave money to the Resistance, all of this wouldn't have happened, either in case the money was paid to Cessida, or the amounts were paid for the pieces, for example. Stevan Lilic. So, if I, as Minister, had paid something off of the bill for Stevan Lilić's work, for Cesid and the Resistance, there would probably be no criminal charges, no charges, so this trial would be very interesting. To begin with, to draw attention to the need to provide evidence of how the beauty campaign, sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce, was funded, and then I have some other contracts by Bojan Dimitrijevic on some projects. Just to draw your attention, Mrs. Malovic, to know who you're sitting with, who you're sitting with and who you're hanging out with on the party line. This is a decision on the allocation of funds on the intervention project, an intervention to complement the sectoral projects of the National Investment Plan. There is no invitation to any member of any regulation in this decision. Dragan Gilas signed this on June 5th 2008. Says the minister without portfolio, in charge of the National Investment Plan, makes a decision. It's over. It's done. It'll be interesting, because I have to make a circus out of it, so people can see how this democratic government works and how someone's orders are being chased by someone that America said is a Serb nationalist. That should be condemned, that should be eliminated, so, if anything, you have to invent something. We'll take care of it nicely in this period. Since I have a colleague who's from Leskovec who needs to say something about this, I'm done, but I'll get back to you to help you better determine this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9171	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic, so Mr. Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank my colleague, Alexander Pejcic, for the amendment he submitted. I want to say that the SNS supports this amendment, that I, as a representative of the citizens of the Pomorava, feel obliged to say that this territorial organisation of the judiciary and the prosecution in the Pomoravale has been done very badly. What is most regrettable is that Serbian citizens know that hundreds of courts have been abolished, since we have both criminal and municipal courts, and that in the light of all that we have only three lists, not even three sides, three lists of arguments, which are, in fact, the persuasion of these members of the law. The law is very small, but the argument is inappropriate, in a situation where we come from 173 criminal courts to 45, and 102 departments, when we come from 138 municipal courts to 34 basic courts, and everything else is judicial units. I believe that the argument in this law should have been significantly more serious, that it should have contained an analysis of the situation, when it comes to the territorial organisation of the courts, that it had to come out with arguments, and not just one of these impertinent government proposals. There's no serious conclusion, there's no serious explanation, and obviously this is a very bad bill, we see it by the number of amendments, and as far as Pomorava is concerned, with six municipal courts, we've fallen to two. But what bothers me the most is that the citizens of Resava lose at least one municipal court. Resava is a geographical continent that covers the municipalities of Svilajnac and Despotovac and, according to this bill, Despotovac belongs to the General Court in Paracina and Svilajnac – the Basic Court in Jagodina. The distance of these courts from the seat of these municipalities is great, and as far as the criteria are concerned, the criteria were, at least in the light of this law, the number of objects in work, the annual inflow of objects, the geographical distance and the development of the travel network. Almost every one of these four criteria is not satisfied with the interests of the citizens of Resava, the interests of the citizens of Svilinc, the interests of the citizens of Despotovac. I would like to say one more thing, that this proposal is unwise by the DS, or by the ruling majority, by the ruling majority, which is largely in favour of decentralisation. Isn't this the most obvious example of Serbia's centralisation, isn't this the best example of trying to put the executive power under the control of the judiciary, the judiciary in Serbia, to create a judicial clan through which the executive power will be able to influence the decisions made in the judiciary much easier. I have an obligation, first of all, to the citizens and employees of the Municipality Court of Despotovac, who delivered me 30 arguments that make them think that Despotovac should remain a municipal court. I'm not here to assess whether the basic court should be a Despotovac or a Svilian, one serious analysis should have been done by the Ministry. There is no such analysis in this bill. Because of them, just a few of their arguments. Of these thirty, the Municipality court in Despotovac was founded in 1931, meaning 77 years of work. It is, in my opinion, in the opinion of all Resuscitators, a blow to the tradition of this court. He mentioned my colleague, nine courts. This is quite true, but 35 employees in these courts, the departure of judges, the departure of the most educated and prominent people from one municipality significantly affects the quality of life in these environments. We have tremendously large migrations in central Serbia, not only in municipalities that are along Serbia's border. Then, from the arguments, I would mention that they have a total, according to these basic entries, 3.627 cases in 2007, that according to all the entries, they have 8.381 items, that it is an extremely up-to-date court. In 2006, he was in the district of the Municipal Court, i.e. the District Court of Jagodina, meaning in the area of the Pomorava district, the most intense court, which means that they have serious personnel potentials, that the Despotovac municipality has 34,000 inhabitants, slightly more than that of the Svilajnac municipality. So Resava, expensive, close to 80,000 inhabitants. He shouldn't have left Resava without a basic court. Despotovac has 33 settlements, a municipality that is on the surface of the first five municipalities in Serbia, which indicates how difficult it is to reach the municipal court in Despotovac today, and how difficult it will be when the basic court is transferred to Paracin, then. The situation is similar in Svilinco, although it is a small number of settlements. There are also no public undertakings in the area of Despotovac municipality for organised passenger transport. It affects the quality of court proceedings. I've already said that one of the largest municipalities, the area is 631 square kilometers. I think it is very important to tell you that in the area of the municipality of Despotovac and Rembas, one of the largest mines in Serbia, that we have forest land that employs 150 people, and in the area of Rembas itself, it is measured by thousands of employees, that all the rights of employment have so far been achieved through the Municipality Court of Despotovac and that the most distant settlement in the municipality of Despotovac is 30 kilometers away from the Despotovac. This is in favor of the earlier claim that it is a municipality that is extremely spacious. With this proposal, the Paracino basic court, the distance and departure of individual Despotovec citizens to the court will be over 70 kilometers. It's a similar situation for a Svilian. We from the Serbian Progressive Party, from the Forward Parliamentary Club, Serbia, will not vote for this set of laws. We will not vote for this law that treats the territorial organisation of courts, but we hope that if you have already provided the majority for the adoption of this law, the Ministry will do a much more serious analysis urgently, and I hope that finally the citizens of Resava will be in the first, and no, it seems to me, mostly in the second plan. Thank you. (Employers of the SRS, all the time presenting MP Zoran Antic, banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9173	Thank you, Mr Antic. For a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zoran Krasic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9174	Mr. Novakovic, I am fully aware of the fact that you cannot change something that was messed up by Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but at least when you sit in that place, you would have to pay a little attention to Article 104 more because of article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because here, from this pay phone, you hear everything and everything. We had a chance to hear there was a colleague with Pejcic. I don't know what my colleagues are based on. I guess they weren't in college together, or at school, or kindergarten. If someone thinks that all the colleagues in this room are in this room, then it means that someone thinks that, by the very fact that they are here, they are legally and legitimately present. It can't be true and it's kind of a privatisation. Once, Čkalja knew that he was making jokes with those two you'd be in front of the Federal Assembly, it's hard to force him out, keep him, so you have to take care of it, because Pejcic is a colleague of a large number of MPs here, because his stay here has a legitimate basis and legal coverage, and some when they come out, to take a picture of themselves, they call on Pejcic, so they say – a respected colleague, Pejcic. They're not colleagues, at all, any colleagues, as this side is disgusted, and every day more and more protesting that we have these amendments by "slapping," so we could now conclude that in the vicinity of Jagodina they're going to be tried in some mine. It's such an exposure, but I know, Mr. Novakovic, that you're not the main culprit for this. If, by any chance, you meet Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and comes to the Assembly, remind her that there is a Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that there is one law, that there are churches, oaths, remind her that there is even a speck of morality, and that, if that trumpet of morality is not in this people's assembly, I don't know who has the legitimate right to chase criminals. With what right could someone be chasing criminals, if the public, everyone sees the National Assembly become a safe crime house for days?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9175	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is away on business, under the authority of the National Assembly president, and will arrive this afternoon, and the word is Mr. Tomislav Ljubenovic. The time of the SRS parliamentary group is three minutes, so Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9176	I'm reporting for the amendment of Alexander Pejcic, who's done a lot of right and a lot of data on the Jablani County and Leskovec. At the very beginning, I can say that when it comes to the municipal court in Leskovec, we have about 3,000 unresolved problems and 200 problems that last for more than two years. By amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by Aleksandar Pejčić, point 15, when it comes to the municipalities of Bojnik, Vlasotince, Lebane, Medvedja, Crna Trava, is deleted and point 2 is added, which is the basic court in Lebanon for the territory of the municipalities of Lebana, Bojnik and Medvedja, and point 3, which reads – the basic court in Vlasotinc for the area of the municipalities of Vlasotince and Black Trava. I think it is extremely inappropriate, because this is the way the Bamic Court is made in Leskovec, with about 60 judges (now there are 37 in Leskovec, in Vlasotanc 11, in Leban 13), with an annual reception of about 60,000 objects, and now 30,000 objects are unsolved for a territory of about 2,800 square kilometers, with about 330 settlements, about 240,000 inhabitants, with a distance of 200 kilometers - east, or 130 kilometers - south and north. It is one of the largest territories at Serbia's per-space level. These settlements are free of any road; only about 20% of the settlements are paved along the road and only 15% of the settlements with bus lines. In Medvedja, we have a specific case, where the Serbian population is moving a lot, and just in Medvedja and Leban, one such solution, we will have the incentive to move the population further. I can conclude that everything that has been, in some way, in one part, been experimental; in the earlier period we had municipalities, so now they became local communities. In one of these laws, we're going to get into a situation that's right in the south, and the most appropriate case is the Jablani County, and later we're going to turn community centers back into a local community, and the local communities we had to turn into constituencies. I think that the state and judicial authorities should take care of it in that direction, because it is precisely one of these inappropriate laws that will put us in a position to have an even greater population eviction. I'm not for making it harder for citizens to access the court to get rid of the judge as well as in previous cases. I think this state and the Assembly, and the existing laws, are able to clear the judiciary of corrupt judges, which, by the recognition of the Minister himself, we have about 5%, and of the unprofessional ones that we have about 15%. We can get the judicial authorities, without these new laws, to get the municipal courts, judges to function at a far higher level, to be more expedient and to make the judicial decisions that are being made appropriate. The proposed laws are, I can conclude, unarranged, confusing and, in the end, will lead to the opposite effect, i.e. an even more dependent judiciary than the executive authority is now the case. The proposed law will remain at the level of the attempt and most of the ruling coalition's reform laws. A real reform of the judiciary will have to wait a little longer, when the new assembly majority, headed by the SRS, will begin to pass laws in the interest and, if the need of the people, not party oligarchies, now the ruling party and their tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9177	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9178	We have been discussing this set of judicial laws for days, which has been handed over to this assembly to debate them and to adopt them by an urgent procedure, although these laws will only take effect in 2010. It's already in itself contradictory, because if it's something of an emergency procedure, then it means an emergency application, in order to improve the situation in that area, and as we can see, the application of these laws will not start for more than a year. This isn't a direct area I'm following, I'm not a lawyer, but I want to predict here that we'll be making changes to these laws in the coming year. For what? Because in many segments they are extremely illogical and for days the MPs come out and debate the amendments, especially point three, where they talk about the seats of the courts. Thus, in an extremely casual way, it was decided that only those municipalities that had the status of cities, or cities, had basic courts, and that all other municipalities had lost that status, those municipalities that had municipal courts. It's not good, and I'm taking the opportunity here to ask the minister a question, to go out and say, what criteria did you do? It is impossible to lift all municipal courts and keep only those in cities, because in the last year we declared 34 municipalities that received the status of the city. What I think you should take care of, I'd like you to come out and tell us, is that when you decided that this law abolished municipal courts, were municipal courts equally burdened by the number of cases, was the urgency in these courts identical, so there are identical reasons to end it, was the quality of solving these cases at the same level in all these municipal courts that were abolished? What is particularly important, this is about elementary ignorance, both demographics, and territory, and road infrastructure in Serbia. Simply, there are municipalities where citizens and now they have a hard time achieving their right to judicial protection because the road network is bad, because villages are far away, because there are a lot of problems. And now, by this decision, let's say – in the municipality of Ljubovija, since the amendment that I submitted to the Mačvani County, which is a mountain-mounted municipality, the municipalities of Krupanj, Vladimirci, Koceljeva, these are villages that are 30, 40 km away from these municipalities, we direct them to Šabac or Loznica. These trips will be 60, 70 km each. Do you know that in many villages there is no daily bus departure in the morning for, say, the Municipality of Šabac, the municipality of Loznica? Let's see how that citizen gets his rights. He should leave a day early, if there's a bus at five o'clock in the afternoon, and he'll come to someone at Shabac or Loznica for a night's sleep, and then he'll come to trial in the morning. So do we have citizens of first and second order? Do all citizens under this law have the same right to judicial protection? They're absolutely vague criteria and you didn't answer here. If you go out and say by what criteria, that based on these criteria, we come to the conclusion that you've made a decision to abolish these municipal courts, I withdraw everything I've said. It's absolutely obvious you didn't have any criteria. You have simply made such a decision, I don't know why, probably that the EU would verify it, and the question is what will happen and what will be the answer of the competent European authorities for this set of laws. Another illogicality and something else that suggests that there is absolutely no strategy. Don't tell us about any strategy and radical change in the judiciary, which is well thought out, designed and that will be effective and functional. It's just impossible. A month before that, you put out a completely different system of court organisations, where it is also foreseen to abolish a certain number of courts, but not all. According to the first proposal, the Court of Justice should remain in Bogatic. Now you're gonna shut it down. That shows you didn't have any strategy. There was a variant of one, the judges organized themselves, and the legal, legal, legal, judicial public got up in the first place. I had a chance to have a conversation with the President of the District Court, the presidents of municipal courts from the Mačvan County, and that meeting, believe me, was in early October. We were then discussing the bill that you gave in the procedure and which you announced would be in the assembly procedure, the first proposal, we discussed, that only seven days after that you would be faced with the fact that you are dating a whole new set of judicial laws, which have nothing to do with the previous proposal. That indicates that there, absolutely, you didn't have any strategy. Someone told you this was the way to do it, and that's how you did it. The fact that someone's going to have to travel 100 miles, no buses, bad roads, which will take him 24 hours to get to court, this country and this ministry don't care at all. It's not good and it's not fair. It's not good, and I always advocate tradition. There's a tradition to be respected. You can't have a court in the Vladimirs, which exists 170 years, erased just like that. For what? I'm asking you, do you have any information on how many cases are being processed by the Court in the Vladimirs? What's the update? How much does that court earn? And all the other data. How far are the villages and how far will each village be to Šapac? How do you think someone who lives in these villages can exercise their right? I know you have statistics, too. It's perfectly natural. It is impossible for you, based on these statistics, to wipe out all municipal courts, not only in the Mačvanska district, to leave Shabac and Loznica, but so you have done throughout Serbia. All the municipalities that are less than and a half of the population, but have their courts of 150, 170 years, to just so, by one move of feathers, or by this bill, delete?- I'm sorry. If we are fighting and we are constantly saying that the essence, in some future period, is equal regional development, and we have examples of people moving out of these very small places, especially those who are educated, who are professional, for the simple reason that there are no institutions where they would be employed, we are sending an additional message in this way – that anything that ended the rights can be moved to Loznica or to Sabac, that everything that ended the rights, from Vladimirs or Koceljeva, goes to Shabac. There's no need for someone who's finished law school to live in such a small place. The only one who can live is that lawyer who'll be the secretary of the community council. It takes a law school to do that. One lawyer per municipality, according to the ministry's interpretation and on the proposal, is quite enough for municipalities that have 20, 30,000 inhabitants. It's not about decentralisation, it's about the elemental ignorance of the practical state of the field. It's about misrepresenting our judicial tradition. This proposal is not good. I know that these amendments, which the MPs have proposed, will not be adopted, that you have arguments that this proposal, above all, is in a function of a more efficient and rational business, but I am convinced that you have not made any analysis, because simply, in the case of the Mačvan County, there are differences between the Court of Justice in Koceljeva and the Court of Justice in Krupnje, the Court in Vladimirci and the Court of Justice in Bogatic. You can't look at all courts in the same way and treat them that way. Let the MPs from Machovan County keep quiet. Let the MPs of the ruling coalition from these places be silent. I know it's not easy to be in power and you're told to keep your mouth shut, but you're complicit in something called destroying small municipalities in your district, which is called non-communication for citizens' rights from the middle and the district you come from. Think about it. I appeal to the MPs of the Machuvan County, but also to all other MPs of the ruling coalition, do not let such a move, with one move, without too much explanation, without adequate indicators, in one day of voting and one hand-lifting, or one push of the button, be lifted by powerful courts throughout Serbia. It simply won't be good for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9179	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9180	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Vice President, there's a law on citizens' associations at this session. I'll let you know which associations exist, and I wouldn't have the need for that if one of the citizens hadn't talked about Mr. Pejcic's amendment. In the village of Dlacce, in Love, there is an association called "The Liars' Association". Mr. Puric, he's from the district where I come from, he can make sure it's true. They're organising the election and making a election report. They won't vote for this bill, but for reasons they don't have the legitimacy to vote. Otherwise, they would give maximum support to all MPs who have submitted amendments to this law. I must remind the citizens of Serbia that, roughly, the same target has been the same distance for several days. The MPs are talking. They're defending the amendments. Madam Minister listens, but there are no indications that something of quality will happen. Turkey, you're here and you're going to confirm this with regard to the Lies Association, which are honest people. They like to make their lives more interesting in this dreary time to joke. I must say because of the citizens of Serbia that the law on the seats and arrangements of courts and public prosecutors has a total of 19 members and 122 amendments submitted. Something, more specifically, 19 is accepted, the rest is not. This article we've been talking about for two or three days has been subject to 37 amendments. I have said about one of the amendments to this article that it would be best, most rationally, to accept the amendment, if this law has to be adopted, Mrs. Milice Radovic. I don't think I'm going to have any trouble, which is the second, third time I've mentioned Mrs. Radovic for this. Understand, with the same ferocity and with the same will I defend the amendments of Mr. Sheriff Hamzagic, Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, Lasla Varge, Riza Halimi, Mr. Milos Radulovic, as I defend this amendment, but for this amendment I have more specific data. I fully advocate the acceptance of any amendment, or better yet, that this law be withdrawn. No one can convince Serbian citizens that this story, which MPs, above all, MPs of the SRS and other political parties, speak of this, is too high and that you can get out – we are late in Europe because the SRS MPs explain these amendments. I think only in the time Mr Krasic saved some seven or eight minutes in total, so that before that deadline we will enter Europe, but we need to talk about amendments that might not be worth much trying. I mean, I don't want to, but there's just such a need, that if some field courts were to organize, courts in the villages, but to comply with all the procedures, that even so, because at a time when bribery, corruption, unfortunately, jurisprudence, domestic violence, should be more judges to solve these problems. But gentlemen, dear citizens of Serbia, not all the problems in your practice with courts have arisen in courts where you go and where justice is slow and unattainable for you. These problems were created in the government of the Republic of Serbia, of course, and in the Ministry of Justice, because it reflects itself. For a long time, judges and prosecutors who are not worthy of doing the job have been protected, and nothing of quality has been done by the Department of Justice Oversight, because through this department can be very efficient, rational and in accordance with the law to influence the work of the judicial authorities and prosecutors. Mrs. Minister said, explaining these laws, that now you'll have to respect your working hours. Working hours are respected by citizens of Serbia who have opened up kiosks and sold some goods to survive, and now, as an epochal act and discovery, we also have an argument for judicial reform that we will respect working time. Well, it's something that's meant to be, and it's something that has to be. We in the SRS are convinced that, out of about 2400 judges in various courts, according to local and real jurisdiction, most of their work is performed in a fair, responsible, fair manner, in accordance with the Constitution, law, internationally certified contracts and other sublegal acts, but one smaller number does not perform that function with dignity. Some are, simply, such, and sometimes pressured by the minister of justice, I am not talking about Mrs Malovic, and sometimes the presidents of municipal committees, perhaps, even local, some political parties. By putting pressure on judges and prosecutors, they make justice slow, making justice unattainable for Serbian citizens. If you had genuine intention to implement the reform in a good way and for the citizens of Serbia, you would certainly not have proposed such a law on territorial organisation, or a network of courts. I purposely say this conventional term, so that those to whom this story should arrive will understand us. You'd have to do it in a completely different way. Respecting the arguments and comments of other fellow MPs who spoke, I must remind myself, both for Tutin and for Priboj, and for Subotica, and for Bujanovac, and for Presevo and every other place in Serbia, to use this time to talk about the need to remain municipal courts in the administrative, administrative district of Mačvanski, if you will, and fundamentally, it is now a minor problem, although I personally think, and the SRS, that they should be called municipal. However, let them be called basic, but there is a great need for such a court to be in Krupanj, because there are places, rural areas and areas in that municipality that are 40km from the municipality's headquarters and, imagine, when I said that the government and the Ministry of Justice are responsible for the dispute and inaccessible justice for the citizens of Serbia, this court still exists today, there is a judge and one judge. You can imagine if they could have been effective, could they have been satisfied? But the smaller problem is they, the courts don't exist for themselves, they exist for parties in the process they need to exercise their right. If in one municipal court there was a total, with the President of the Court, two judges, how long did they have to wait for a trial to be completed, or for the citizens to exercise their right? This situation is not a year ago, so let's say -- we had in our heads a reform that would wipe out that court, it won't exist at all, this situation takes a few years, but these two judges tried to do as much as possible. At no time when I comment on this amendment and, in general, when I talk about these laws, I am not talking about individual decisions whether citizens, or parties in the process have always been satisfied. There is a procedure under the law that they have the opportunity to appeal to the higher court and thus solve their problem, and I am therefore deeply convinced that the Municipal Court, or the basics, should call it whatever you want, should remain in Krupanj. When it comes to the Municipal Court in Ljubovia, I will present a little more arguments, which does not mean that there are no similar or similar arguments for Krupanj and other municipalities in the area of the Machuvan County, I simply know more of the facts of this municipal court. There's no so-called. old cases, this does not mean – outdated cases, but to be transferred from one year to another; with four judges, there is a shortage, the fulfilment of the norm is 100%. Not to be angry with the judges in these municipal courts, but this Bill of the County Court in Sapac says that 15 years is almost, in continuity, the Municipal Court in Ljubovija, perhaps, the best by the results it achieves; I do not comment on concrete decisions. We talked about the need to survive the municipal court if he's close to the border. The territory of the Municipality of Ljubovija has a border of 42 km. From the seat of the city and seat of the municipal court, there is a border crossing within three kilometers, not to mention other arguments, because it is only one indicator, and let me tell you, not that I am ashamed, but that it is a little difficult to say that this place has 17 and a half thousand inhabitants. There won't be any municipal courts in cities with many more inhabitants. These are honest and honest people, as they are in other places, but a difficult life, an irregular relationship between the government of the Republic of Serbia and other state institutions towards that place, leading to such a situation, and the migration will certainly speed up the process if the court is abolished. One more argument. We mainly call before the elections on parallel and special ties with Republika Srpska only when our elections are and after that we forget. If, under those conditions of defaulting special connections with the Republika Srpska, and we treat it this way, does it need to remain the Municipal Court in Ljubljana and to develop this place, to make the state work harder so that we can make good connections with Republika Srpska? That doesn't apply, dear fellow MPs, only to this place I'm talking about, it should apply to every place on or near the border. To say that 90% of the area of the Municipality of Ljubovija is a hill-mounted area and that several villages are located 40 km from the seat of the current municipal court. Someone was talking about whether there was a bus in the morning. In this village, from this village, which is Gornja Košlja, only once, on Fridays, there is a bus to Love and to Love – 40 and a few kilometers, and from Ljubovija to Loznica, another 75 km. So the party should travel 125 km. If procedures, or processes could be completed in a few days, then perhaps the party could also rent an apartment in Loznica, so that it might be there until the process is completed, but you have brought the motion of such a law to the position of the judge, who already exists there, to travel to Loznica, and perhaps from Bogatic to come to Ljubovije and to go to the farthest place, which from the seat, now, the municipal court is over 40 km away. The Court of Osecina, the Court of Justice in Baja Basta, which is subject to a lot of these arguments that I have made for Love, because it is located on the border, in Bogatic, in Koceljeva, there are also a lot of arguments to remain. And not just for these six municipal courts, or five, since the municipal court in Loznica should remain. I remind you once again, Mrs. Radovic's amendment defends 104 municipal courts and only he is the acceptable and best solution, or to identify ourselves for this. Once again, if we did not vote in favour of this law, provided that amendments were not accepted, nor MPs who make up the assembly majority, this law could not pass. I'm afraid, but I don't believe that you have submitted amendments that you can show yourself to the citizens from where you come from, and that you will vote here for such a law, which will speed up the collapse of the judicial system in Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9181	The word has an MP, Mikhailo Puric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9182	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, dear MPs, since I am from the Mačvanski District, listening carefully to Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Peric, I am obliged, for proper information, to say certain words. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal for a law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors of the Mačvani District is adequately represented. He is represented by two basic courts, which are the basic court in Loznica and the basic court in Šapec. If we want to read more correctly, or more precisely, we can look at Article 3 of point 16 under the Law proposal, where it is clearly said: "The main court in Loznica, for the territory of the municipalities of Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik and for the town of Loznica, with judicial units in Krupnje and Ljubovija" and point 34: "The basic court in Šapac, for the territory of the municipalities of Bogatic, Vladimirci, Koceljeva and the town of Šabac, with judicial units in Bogatic, Vladimirci and Koceljevi". I want to make it clear that, as far as citizens and the exercise of their rights are concerned, all rights can be exercised in the judicial units and that the fear of travelling from Love, Krupanja, Koceljeva, Vladimirs and Bogatic towards Capac, i.e. Loznica, is unwarranted. I think it's extremely incorrect to go out and talk here like that. We can talk about how to fix the law with amendments, not how to confuse even more citizens. I want to point forward, based on the three-year inflow of objects, Koceljeva has 575, Krupanje 514, Love 673, and Loznica 3,208. If we start from the fact that 329,000 inhabitants, in six municipalities and two cities, live in the Mačvan County, we can see from this proposal that two basic courts in the Mačvan County can clearly express citizens' interests in the exercise of rights when it comes to basic courts and organisational units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9183	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Sreto Peric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9184	I'm reporting for replication. So the basis for reporting is the Rules of Procedure. I'm very grateful to my fellow Puric. Dear citizens of Serbia, you could now see the real truth. No one has dared defend the law so far. This is what my colleague Puric did, and I am grateful to him. I could talk about some extra arguments right now. It turns out that MPs of the SRS, but, for God's sake, Kenana, and you, and Sheriff Hamzagic, are bringing confusion and meeting fears in the country of Serbia. I am glad to be in the same group with you, explaining the amendments in this way, and being on the opposite side of my fellow Puric. If the courts are to remain where they already exist, counterpart Puric, why, in the light of Ms. Minister, and colleagues of Konstantinovica, the strongest, or almost strongest arguments, were the fact that in small courts everyone is known, that in small courts is the greatest corruption or the possibility of developing corruption. I know that the building that exists in Ljubovija and in Bogatić, in Krupnje and elsewhere, can't be transferred, but based on what you've explained, deny me, Madam Minister, if not, judges are admitted to the basic court, are not accepted into the judicial units. If they're admitted to court, they stay here, there's no travel, there's nothing. I don't know if you and I, my colleague Puric, can comment on this part in the best possible way. There's something you've been doing great, and I appreciate it, and I appreciate it. It seems to me, defense or something, although I'm pretty good at it, but theoretically, you're better than me, because it seems to me to be a basic profession, but this is something else. You have tried in another way to send a message to the citizens of Serbia, as well as to MPs who make up the assembly majority, so that there is no dilemma in the voting day, I understand that well, and that you are now talking a little bit by approving the citizens of the places from which we come. The SRS is not only in favour of winning votes, it primarily advocates a truly better life for all Serbian citizens, both those who show confidence in the SRS and those who may never, but who will be less and less, will not vote for the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9185	We all stand for a better life. Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9186	Here, I'm not talking about parties at all, or the votes that some parties should win, but precisely those parties that have won and formed the ruling majority should take care of what they've said here. I told you that I know that you belong to most of them and that it's not easy when you get an appeal from the Ministry, when you get a paper like that, and you can't talk about it. So, you said here that two basic courts in the territory of the Machuvan County are quite enough. I agree that it's a better position for the Machuvan County than for some other districts. I didn't talk about it here. I was talking about abolishing the Court of Justice in Love, abolishing the Court in Krupanju, abolishing the Court of Vladimirs, abolishing the courts in Bogatic and Koceljeva. That's what you support. So, I didn't dispute the basic court and I'm not saying that the situation in the Machuvani County is no better. You have to explain to the citizens, say, Love, or the villages of Gornja Košlje, where city traffic only works one day a week. How's he gonna get to Loznica, how's he gonna get to Love? And you throw again, you seem to want to be a minister. Come out here. Please warn your colleague, he keeps throwing it at me, not just for me, but for other colleagues, from the DSS, he's throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9187	Please don't throw away and concentrate on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9188	Because the DS Committee is disbanded in your city, don't bring your frustrations out in public now. Nice, take care of your organization and see what happened to you, don't mix your grandmothers and frogs here. So Beljin village, Dry Village, Kozarica, every two or three days there goes a bus. Then you explain to those citizens why they should travel 70, 80, 90 km. I understand your position, but I don't understand why you had the need to go out and defend something that's indefensible. We will try to tell all these citizens not whose fault it is, but whose responsibility is in the municipalities of Ljubovija, Koceljeva, Vladimirci, Bogutić, and why it is denied, or reduced the right to judicial protection, that is, why you have complicated their lives. You won't be able to justify this by European standards and I don't know what decentralisation is. You work exactly the opposite. To those places where there are a few state institutions, which are very important for the functioning of these small municipalities, you remove these institutions and thus give them a strong signal – you are moving from Love. I just said, one lawyer in Love is enough to work in SO and be a secretary in SO, and that's enough for Ljubovia, two lawyers are already out of business. That's what you do with this bill. That's the case all over Serbia. Now we're talking about a specific county, but wherever the municipalities are...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9189	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9190	I'm done. Wherever the municipalities of this kind are, mountain-mounted, you're making it difficult for the citizens to have the right to judicial protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9191	Mrs. Malovic. No, you always have the advantage. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9192	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize for not knowing who has priority on the Rules of Procedure, whether the MP who reports by the Rules of Procedure or by the legislator. I will respond to something that has been heard in the National Assembly for days when we are discussing amendments related to this law, which is that the courts are being abolished and that citizens will have to travel. As I said at the beginning, as I explained this law, in the final debate in principle, I will now repeat it, I will repeat it as many times as you will, so that the courts are not abolished, the courts are reorganized. So far, the municipal courts, some of them will be judicial units. How judicial units will function, whether as judicial departments or on the level of the days to come, will be governed by the court's rules of procedure, which will be adopted on the basis of the opinion of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. What is even more important here, given that the MPs represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia chose in the direct elections, I will say that citizens will not have to travel a single kilometer more than they have done so far. So, the citizens of the village of Gornja Košlje, if I remember correctly, will not have to travel a foot more than they have traveled before. I don't know, but they certainly won't have to do it harder than they've done before. The citizens will go to trial in that building, in that place they've done so far. As far as the judges are concerned, I've already said, the judicial units will function either at the level of the court departments, or at the level of the judging days. Of course we're not gonna make the judges travel 50 kilometers if that's the distance of the judicial unit from the basic court. All things will be regulated by the Rules of Procedure, you will certainly have insight into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9193	Thank you, Madam Minister. For his word, he answered about the amendment, the replica, and I apologize for the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9194	Mr. Novakovic, I expect, given that you have a very good session of the National Assembly, that you can use your powers under Article 27. Rules of Procedure, but as regards the provisions of Art. 104, 225 and 226 of our Rules of Procedure. I have a court settlement here, and I quote what I have, so I'm going to finally tell you why it's important. The court settlement says, "The Prosecutor, the SRJ State, the Federal Property Directorate and the Federal Assembly", on the one hand, and on the other hand, the company "Dunav Insurance AD Belgrade" has been sued. They agree, since it is a court settlement, that the defendant, and the defendant is "Dunav Insurance", is obliged to apply the policies, so the policies have been cited for the adverse event since 5 October 2000, and the court has found that the burning of the Federal Assembly has been a harmful event. Yes, that's what I'm saying to Mr. Novakovic, it was a harmful event that made the company "Dunav" pay, and she paid for prisons afterwards. There's no Batic here, I don't want to talk about it right now. You see, they agreed that the damage would be 95 million then, and now we can't tell how much it is, and the Dunav company calmed it all down. We have here a letter that they finished all 14 of them. 3. 2002. Later this afternoon, when there's more ratings, I'm going to read these other parts, given that someone accused me of lying 15 days ago. He threw a man out of place, though. I would ask you, Mr. Novakovic, that we could all better understand what is happening in the DS, the change of strategy, ideologists, etc., and of course, because of what I was talking yesterday about the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that prohibit this kind of dominant political party in the state bodies, this all exists in the service of the National Assembly, complete documentation, to ask the service, to let MPs know how the funds were used, that is, how the funds of the National Assembly were used in connection with the adverse events. Please, it has been found to be a harmful event. Because of this adverse event on Day 5. 10, we in continuity survive the damage and since to this event... (President: The time foreseen for your advertising of infringements of the Rules of Procedure has expired. )......................................................................................................... You did not pay attention, I ordered a whole series of provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I started with Articles 27, over 104, 225 and 226, Mr. Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9195	It doesn't affect the flow of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9196	Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9197	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9198	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I support Mr Zoran Nikolic's amendment. Madam Minister, I cannot agree with you and with what you discussed earlier, when you explained to the MPs and citizens of Serbia that this would practically be a cosmetic change. I cannot understand that you have been here for days to convince the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian citizens that the law that is good in front of us is good. The law isn't good. If the professional public in Serbia agrees, if the Society of Judges criticises this bill all the time, especially the one that applies to territories, if all the MPs of the profession, from the opposition, criticise this, if you have no arguments that it is good, except for you who defend this division into territories, it is incomprehensible. A few days ago, I was in Loznica. I can tell you that the people of Love and Krupanja, as well as the professional public, are desperate for what will happen. It can't be said that everything will be exactly the same as before and that no one will go to trial for 50 kilometers. I ask you a specific question – how will the senior court, which will be in the King and the judicial unit in Raška, that is 80 km, from where will there be delegated judges to judge in Raška? I have asked you a question here many times – how will the audit disputes of over 800,000 dinars be tried in higher courts? It'll be a first-degree court. So for some things, appeals courts will be second-degree courts. Explain to me how someone from Negotina will go to the appeals court 200 km away? How will someone from Ivanjica go to Belgrade to the Court of Appeal? Is it close and does it collect or do it not cost the citizens of Serbia who want to exercise their rights? What the NS proposed by its amendment, to delete this third member, was absolutely constructive. There was no reason to remove the names – municipal, county, and to replace them with a very unpopular – basic and higher. If you want, for psychological reasons, it was better to remain municipal courts, because there is legislative, executive and judicial authority in every municipality. If you look at anything in Serbia's history, in every city, the city was known for its doctor, priest and judge. It's a tradition in Serbia. We can't now because of some Europe, which, of course, we want to go to, so hasty to change our lives in Serbia. Look, everybody's gonna be in trouble here. The citizens will simply take matters into their own hands. Madam Minister, you will have an increase in criminal acts when your court is not available when it is not within reach. I've said more than once from this pay phone that we have, absolutely, a situation like in that movie "The Marathons are running an honorary circle" – the cinema is back on track. It'll be our courts. It'll be one day in the city. You have to understand that's not a good solution. There are some things in this set of laws that are really correct. But, in particular, this part is not good. There are no judges who are neutral, who do not belong to political parties, at least most of them. There are no justice men in the King's office, Chačka, in any part of Serbia, who will say this is good. So, don't keep standing here, in front of Serbian citizens, saying something like nothing's happening. I'm telling you there will be such confusion, so many problems. When one court in Serbia is exempt, so when you delegate from another court, the dispute cannot be ended for years. Practically, we will have a delegation in every court in Serbia. There will be total insecurity in the judiciary. The citizens will be under such pressure, there will be so many problems. I'm telling you, it's something amazing. The only hope for the judiciary and for the citizens of Serbia is that this law, as well as many others that cannot be applied, is to postpone a year, two or more days, because you will see that there will be a moment when we will have to change this, because it will not be good. So once again, I tell you that there will be a lot of problems, that Serbian citizens don't want this, that the legal profession in Serbia doesn't want this, that the judges who are going to apply this law and the law on justice don't want such a territorial organisation. So you have the Society of Judges, as I said, which disagrees with this territorial division in Serbia. My proposal and the proposal to the NS is that this member should be deleted and that the old way should be maintained – division into municipal and district courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9199	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that fellow Sheriff Hamzagic, who has an almost identical amendment to the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the MP's SRS, did not give up his intention to fight for this amendment to be accepted. I must tell you one truth, and I believe that the MPs of all the parliamentary groups are in the same situation these days, ever since we're talking about this topic – about the courts' seats, that many letters, telegrams, many calls to citizens. The truth is, Madam Minister, there are a lot of objections to the work of the courts, but what you are predicting by this law is something that, indeed, causes fear and panic amongst the citizens of these small places. You've tried here, you've finally got the strength to explain to us in some way that we're wrong, but I know I won't have time for this amendment, because I have a different concept of reason for this amendment. After this, another 66 amendments remain and I will dedicate my presentation on one amendment to your reasons, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why you do not accept all these amendments. It'll be very interesting how your associates frame you, I just can't believe you took part in it yourself. But since he's one of your closest associates, Vojkan Simic, then it's no wonder. Why did I mention this gentleman? Because you tried to explain here, very confidently, and I really don't know where you got that confidence, that we're wrong, but you're right, because you want to improve the situation in the judiciary. Then, when we brought some things out here about this Mr. Private Simic that were such that he didn't dare go to lawyers either, because he wouldn't have any single client, you took him as your advisor, assistant, or what's the matter with you. Then it is no wonder that he has convinced you that what you are proposing is what you still dare to defend and try to defend, something that will benefit someone in the country of Serbia. Ms. Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is now the second group, so Serbian citizens don't think we're repeating the story for no reason. It could be said that this law consists, perhaps roughly, of three groups. One refers to judges for violations, the other to municipal courts and the third to district courts. I don't use these terms from your bill on purpose, because they can't be used until the laws come into force. You should know that. In particular, you couldn't suggest, for this reason, this law before you came into force of the law on courts. You're obviously not formalists when it suits you. We still remember Gaša Knezevic, your party friend, who spoke in his own time – that a law that has not yet been passed and has not come into force, so that any miracle of the Serbian citizens can expect from you from the Democratic Party. Mrs. Malovic, you've graduated from law school and don't embarrass your profession. You see, there are among your colleagues, among our colleagues and your party friends in the DS, graduate lawyers, and they have not dared defend this proposal. They'll vote, probably because they respect party discipline. It would have been better if they had explained to you that you should really do something in the interests of Serbian citizens. So I was talking about the Tutin Municipal Court, which you're terminating, and what you're saying here is that you're going to have one day for trial, or there's going to be a court department, etc., these are stories for small children, Mrs. Malovic. You're terminating the City Court in Tutina by this law and that's the point. However you explain what you're trying to represent here – it's simply not true. What are the consequences? I was talking, when we talked about that first part, about the violations, and I brought out a lot of information about the City Court in Tutin. Some will now repeat from another aspect how bad your proposals are, and this, even dangerous, Mrs Malovic, is very dangerous in the interests of the Serbian state, and you would have to take care of that. When I last spoke about Tutin, the City Court in Tutin, I said – you, Madam Minister, were probably not in Tutin. You told me from that place – I was, I was. I'm told you weren't in the Tutin Court. Now, where were you, I don't know, maybe visiting someone, I don't mind. Ladies and gentlemen, by chance, I know perfectly well the state of justice in Tutin. She led SRS there some criminal proceedings. I have to tell you that I am not satisfied with the outcome of these reports, but regardless of which, I am aware of the full circumstances why these proceedings are over, I am telling you that the judges at the Municipal Court in Tuta are honorable people. You said you weren't here the other day. You said they were subject to corruption and crime. That's what you said about all the judges in small towns. I understand that you were thinking about these judges in Tutin, and I say, all five judges in Tutin, I know them personally, and I claim to be honest and honest people. On what basis did you bring here information that these people are prone to crime and corruption, Mrs. Malovic? Where does that come from, I'm really afraid not to use a harsh word, because I have no intention of insulting you, especially not personally, but who put you in your head to say that people living in small places are more prone to crime and corruption than people living in big cities? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Srdjan Milivojevic. ) It can, indeed, be the only thing Krasic says, your ideologist Srdjan Milivojevic, no one in their right mind could say. People who live in small towns, and yet judges, are very much held to their honor and morals, because everyone there knows them. They're the ones every kid knows when they walk out on the street. They cannot hide themselves as your thief, this Vojkan Simic, in large Belgrade, so that he can walk for five days without being recognized, and then meet Krasic in town, so he hides on the other side of the street, you know. Krasic won't beat him. Maybe you'd tell him on the way - thieves, but he wouldn't be, anyway. So, Mrs. Malovic, why else did I say that abolishing the Court in Tuco is a dangerous thing? Here, I'm asking you -- how could you ignore, even, administrative districts when it comes to these courts? How did you place Sedica and Tutin in the New Market Court? Why didn't you at least respect the administrative districts? How did you mix up the Goldibor County and the Raski County now? Do you, perhaps, have anything to do with what appeared on the site the other day, on one of the sites, where some municipalities are classified in a future Raška district, or in a future Sandzak, with some crazy ideas about the separation of that part from Serbia? Maybe you had something to do with it, you in the government, when you tried to set us up with something like this?- I'm sorry. Mrs. Malovic, you are doing a very serious job, you are, or you are proposing very serious laws here, and you have to take care of every letter in this law. And you come out and say you claim that someone will not travel from a village more than they have traveled so far. Well, that's not true and you know it's not true. You said when you spoke about these laws in the principle debate, Mrs. Malovic, that the court register would be in the seat of the court. Right? You said it. Then how will a man be able to go and inform in Tutina about his case, and come from the village of Boroštica and Bračak, which are 41 kilometers away from Tutina, when she does not have a court register but has to go to Novi Pazar? That's what you said. You said that, Mrs. Malovic. After five days of our persuasion here, someone told you to come out and calm the citizens, to say that the MPs are lying. We are not lying, Mrs. Malovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia lies to the citizens of Serbia not only because of this law, but because of many laws, because of the government's lack of care about Serbian citizens, about the state of Serbia. You do some banal things, you fight around the ministries. I don't mean literally, but who's gonna get more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, who's gonna be able to hire another assistant, a counselor, I don't know who, and you don't care about Serbian citizens, dear Mrs. Malovic. The fact that you've fixed yourself up and you're saying that you're really going to implement these laws, that you're really going to carry out a reform in the judiciary, if reform is what you're planning in Tutin – then it's terrible. Mrs. Malovic, 36,166 residents live in Tutin, according to the last 2002 census. With this bill of yours and the Court's suspension in Tutin, I've calculated, 0.3% of the people will move out of such a small municipality, from Tutin. What are lawyers going to do in Tutin? What are they gonna do? To represent citizens in Tutin, they must, of course, charge their cost of going to Novi Pazar. Who's gonna pay for them? People have nothing to live on anyway. If he can't work here, he and his family will move to Novi Pazar. What are they going to do with the D.A.'s employees? Where are they going to get a job? In Tutin, people can only get jobs at Dallas. It's the only company that works there, which has a number of employees, probably still employs people. I didn't mention this company in any negative context, but because there's no place for people to work, Mrs. Malovic, and you're leaving 30 employees at the Municipal Court in Tutin. Almost all those people I know, I've met them all. What is it with people who have 50 years of life, who and whose families you leave without a job, and judges for violations, and in the prosecution? I also said about another amendment – you might take some Tutina judges to Novi Pazar, but not all five. What about those judges who lose their jobs? What about the citizens of Serbia? In what way will they satisfy, or seek the satisfaction of their interests before a legal court when they cannot do so as they have been able to do so so far, Mrs. Malovic? Who will bear the costs of this man from Tutina who will have to pay another trip to a lawyer from Tutina to Novi Pazar, provided that one lawyer stays in Tutina? You take their jobs, you take everyone's jobs, everyone who's tied to the judiciary in the Tutin municipality territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9201	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9202	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP supports any initiative aimed at the survival of the municipal, or primary court in Sjenica and Tutin. The reason we're doing this is to strengthen local self-government. We cannot talk about Serbia's European path, or about a European Serbia, without strong local self-government, and what is achieved by this bill is that local self-government is reduced to a very low level. I'm going to say a few sentences about the town hall itself. Sjenica is the second largest municipality in the Republic of Serbia, with 35,000 inhabitants. What is the basic negative characteristic of the Municipality of Sjenica? It is a major migration of residents, especially young citizens who have finished college and who have no place to work in the Sjenica, so they must have their future, or their existence to solve in some other places, in some major cities, whether it is Belgrade, whether it is Sarajevo. When we talk about the administrative division of the Republic of Serbia, it is indeed true that Radeta's colleague was not concerned about the administrative division of the Republic of Serbia. However, the Municipality of Sjenica is both characteristic and in another case. The Health Center for the Municipality of Sjenica is located in Užica, the police are located in Novi Pazar, i.e. in Raška County, while, for example, the Forest Administration is located in Ivanjica, i.e. in the Moravia County, and Sjenica belongs to Zlatibor County. Imagine a citizen who must think – or travel 100 and a few kilometers to the hospital in Užica, or go 70 kilometers to Ivanjic to finish a job related to his forest, then to go 60 kilometers to Novi Pazar, or Raška district, to solve his problem with the judiciary. Also, the characteristic of the Sjenica municipality, as well as for most Sandzak municipalities, is that the ruling parties remember these municipalities only in the pre-election campaign, when they need to share some pre-election promises, and as soon as the elections are over, the formation of the government ends, and the municipalities do not exist for the Serbian government. The reason for this is also the problem that is characteristic of people living in Sjenica, Tutina, Novi Pazar, who have graduated from the university – a criminalist in Sarajevo, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, served their military time in Serbia, nostrificed a diploma here in Belgrade, but cannot establish a working relationship in state bodies, primarily in the authority of the MUP. Also, the Serbian government, when it made this vision of society reform, and it started with judicial reform, had to bear in mind, when we talk about the New Market Basic Court, which is in charge of judicial units in Tutina and Sjenica, that, firstly, it is necessary to make quality travel communication between Sjenica and Tutina, between Sjenica and Novi Pazar. Imagine the situation that a judge, according to this new law, who is from Tutina, will get to judge a case in the court day in Sjenica. The judge must travel 90km from Tutina to Sjenica and 90km to return, and imagine that this is happening in December, or January, when temperatures are extremely low. If we analyze the state of local self-government in Serbia, then you'll see how disillusioned that level of government is. We choose committees, who are statisticians in every municipality and who cannot influence in any way what is essential to the lives of those citizens, or citizens who choose them. The LDP believes that we cannot destroy local self-government, bringing their courts to judicial units, because there are not enough cases in some court. We think that if there are not enough cases in a court of law, then we should either reduce the number of judges in that court or transfer these judges to those courts where there are enough cases. A year ago, Serbia, also under one law, received 25 new cities. The question arises, has the lives of citizens in these cities, new cities, become better, or have some institutions started to work more efficiently and better? I don't think that's the case. I'm afraid that's not going to be the case with this new bill of court-ordering. For this claim, I'm just going to read one piece of information that came up last week, about the town of Novi Pazar. The Secretary of the Municipality of Red Cross Municipality, Ljilja Kostic, said there are 1,000 new requirements for people waiting to eat in the Red Cross folk kitchen, while currently feeding 900 citizens in that folk kitchen. Also, she asked the government of the Republic of Serbia for help, so that the folk cuisine could survive this winter. It is extremely important that the Serbian government assists the citizens of Novi Pazar, and the attitude of state authorities towards institutions in Novi Pazar also shows that in the last month and a half, the city hospital has three times run out of water due to power cuts. This led to the cancellation of several surgical interventions and, worst of all, 16 patients could not be connected to the dialysis machine, and all of this happened without notice. Because of all this, the LDP is of the opinion that this law is not good, that this law should be withdrawn or, in the end, it should be supported by amendments from all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9203	Thank you. The word came from Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, so Mr. Pastor Balint, and Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9204	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to support Mrs Verica Radete's amendment, where, in Article 3(1), paragraph 19 is amended and said there is a Court of First Instance in Novi Pazar, the Court of Justice in Sjenica, the Court of Fundamental Court in Tutin, for the reasons mentioned here and listed for three days. One of the criteria and parameters in this law is the geographical position, one of the parameters was the travel network. So here, by the setting proposed by this law, these two basic parameters don't seem to be respected. What surprises me and worries me, something people cannot believe, is the explanation of Justice Minister Mrs. Malovic. I'll put it that way. When Mrs. Minister came out and explained that people wouldn't travel, within five minutes I got a dozen calls. What do people say? People don't believe that explanation. They don't believe it, for a few reasons. First, if this law is so good, why is the Society of Judges rebelling against it, why is the waist objecting? If this law is so good, why are amendments written by MPs of the ruling coalition? What member of the government can be trusted for what he says? You promised, the government promised, white Schengen visas. Where are they? You promised me free action. Where are they? You promised the extended fact of a general collective contract. Where is that extended fact? A thousand questions as to why and no answer, or the answer that comes from the government is unfavorable. You ask one question, and they answer the other. Here's why they don't believe you. Every kind of policy has its own origin, and the policy outcome led by this government is catastrophic both by country and by people. You're breaking up the country. Now you're probably going to bring health care units into these places, so you're going to bring in the school units. You're forcing this people to migrate to great cities. What's gonna stay in the field? Do you know the demographic situation in Serbia? Are you thinking about anything? Simply, hillbilly, write down some laws that don't fit five pairs, harass MPs of the National Assembly to discuss past hours, and at night, something that basically doesn't have any value. The best thing to do is to withdraw these laws, not to bother ourselves, not to harass this people, not to confuse the people, not to destroy the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9205	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. He's not here. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nikola Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9206	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Benjamin DiIsraeli also said that justice is equally true in action. I think it is very important to mention this at the beginning of this presentation, because in principle debate and in a large part of the debate in particular, by many DSS MPs, as well as MPs of other opposition parties, as well as some MPs who support the ruling coalition, have said enough arguments to support that such a bill is actually unacceptable. The basic observation is that by abolishing a huge number of courts, in fact, it violates the basic principle of availability of justice for all citizens. This is seen in a dramatic cost increase, as well as a large consumption of time, necessary for citizens to travel to courts, often tens of miles away. Obviously, the effect will not be to rationalise costs, because even where some courts are abolished, the issue of maintaining judicial property in those places remains. On the other hand, if it's a trial, for example. In Kovacica, there are significant travel and daily expenses, not only for judges, but also for court interpreters, court experts, who would have to come, for example, from Pancheva. Sometimes judges must, by the nature of their work, travel to that place several times, in order to adequately familiarize themselves with the case file, so that they can carry out their duties in a quality way. I think the good examples are, exactly, for these claims of the municipalities mentioned in this amendment, which are the municipalities of Alibunar and Kovacica. For example, the City Court in Alibunar, which would be abolished by this bill, had 4.544 cases in the course of 2007, and in the course of the current year, 4.124 cases. It is important to add that the court has personnel to conduct court proceedings both in Romanian and Slovak, besides Serbian. This right stems from constitutional norms, and its consumption, by adopting this law, would be, if not compromised, at least difficult. The Court of Justice in Kovacica has the capacity to conduct proceedings in Slovak as well, given the significant Slovak population in this place. This is also a demonstration of the state's determination to favour and respect the interests of national minorities. As a result, the very population of these municipalities would be much more complicated if, instead of a municipal court, trained to conduct procedures in the necessary languages, they had to keep waiting for court interpreters, court practitioners and judges themselves from elsewhere. I think that this bill shows a lack of hearing about the minority issue, and otherwise, while the government was led by the DSS, much has been done about improving the position of minorities, starting with amending electoral legislation and introducing a natural threshold in minority elections, so that they can participate in parliament. Also, a new constitution has been adopted, which devotes almost one third of its text to human and minority rights. A quality background has also been created in this area, which should be upgraded rather than destroyed, as it now seems. Therefore, this amendment, which together with the other amendments of the DSS MPs, should make a synthesis of what would be minimum, in order for this law to be acceptable, because at this point it is not. I would also like to urge the adoption of this and the amendment by Col. Milice Radovic, who, in fact, proposes to retain the existing network of basic, or municipal courts, to maintain the practical state of affairs, because I think the proposed law puts the judiciary in a difficult situation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, makes it difficult for citizens to have access to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9207	According to the Rules of Procedure, the vice president, Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9208	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, I must inform the MPs and the Serbian public that there has been a tragedy in the village of Kriljevo near Kosovo Kamenica. 10 days ago, I warned you, just like my colleague Filip Stojanovic, that the state had obviously raised its hands, and the president of the state, from the Serbs at KIM. It is now confirmed by the fact that, as I was informed, Bogdanović Stanko and Stanica, an old woman and an old woman, were killed, or found dead, in her family house in Kriljevo near Kosovo Kamenica. We're sitting here discussing a law that can't be applied in practice. When applied, Serbian citizens will not get any rather than adequate legal protection, and at the same time this tragedy is taking place, that people, who have been left at the mercy of the president of the state and of the government, who will not discuss the Kosovo and Metohija issue, have been found dead. Who is at this moment in Kriljev, in the house of Bogdanović Stanka and Stanica? It's our Serbs, citizens of the Kosovo Navy, who you've left out of work, which I've asked you twice for the past 15 days. They were members of the so-called Kosovo Protection Corps, Serbs. At the moment the quasi-sip state was recognised by America and the Western forces, they threw out uniforms and said they would no longer be there, to do the job, and to demand that the state of Serbia receive them, or the MUP, in a working relationship. Of course, you didn't insist on that, not even after you moved Eulex and everything before that. For ten years, or eight years, you have not insisted that, according to Resolution 1244, up to a thousand Serb soldiers and police officers return. When they agreed to be officials, or to train the Kosovo Protection Corps uniforms, they did everything to protect the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, as much as possible. It was left on the street of 170 people, without one single dinar since March, and they, though on the edge of existence, are now terrified and concerned about their own and the safety of their families, first came to the house of these old people and found dead, and apparently, the Ship's villains and terrorists killed them. It wasn't enough for you that a colleague of Marina Ragush was reasoned, quoting you... (President: Time.) ) You know, Mr. Novakovic, if at this point I declare that two people were killed in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, at the very least, you should interrupt the session and seek, as chairman, notice, not to remind me that I am on the third minute and 18 seconds. Because while we are here in the warm hall, in the middle of Belgrade, and we are sitting and discussing a law that abolishes over 100 courts in Serbia, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are killing themselves. Two days ago, co-worker Vukicevic, with Dragan Todorovic and counterpart Kragovic, was on the 'wall of wages' and came out and said that the creepy pictures and the shocking testimony of the missing and killed from Kosovo and Metohija. If the state does not respond in these situations and does not ask the so-called The international public gives an answer after all this, and you are in a hurry to Europe and accept Eulex as Serbs are killed, then let it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9209	The word is Mrs. Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9210	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's really terrible what happens to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and it's even scarier that the state doesn't react. Let's go back to the bill of this law, that is, the amendments. The proposal for this law has caused really heated reactions, both to the MPs and to the professional public, who rightly point to the disastrous consequences that will result in the application of this law in practice. The SRS believes that the government should accept the amendment of counterpart Nikola Lazic, among other things, and due to the specificity of the environment to which this amendment applies. I will speak, first of all, of the Municipality of Kovačica, or to focus on that municipality. It's, first of all, a multiethnic environment. In an explanation for the refusal of this amendment, the government states that nothing fundamentally changes, but only an organisationally different setting, so that the majority of municipal courts are no longer, but, according to the bill, they are now judicial units. If you're trying to convince us that, basically, nothing changes and that it's only a change of name, then why did it seem, or not everything like the government claims?- I'm sorry. The creation of this law should not have been brought into place without having previously established the effects it will produce, not only on the effectiveness of the judicial system and on local self-government. It is known that life in small areas, and the municipality of Kovačica is one such environment, takes place next to the church, the municipality, the home of health and the court. The Kovačica municipality is a multiethnic environment in which Serbs, Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians, Roma live and so on. It's a value that our society should be proud of. Now, in the world, the recognizable multiethnic environment, which is the regime and how it knew it was used for propaganda purposes, will now, as before, be left without its municipal court. Does that make any sense? There will be no more municipal court in Kovacica, but there will be a judicial unit. It takes citizens of the Kovačica municipality to please. Let me introduce you to the fact that in official use in court, besides Serbian, equal use is both Hungarian, Romanian and Slovak. Also, this court was established in 1872 as a royal district court. In addition to the area of Kovačica, it covered the area of Baranda, Jarkovec, Opova, Uzdin, Fatty and Crepaje. Supreme Court President Vida Petrovic-Škero, in an interview with a daily newspaper, says -- it is really necessary to ensure a higher degree of judicial independence and to create conditions for a good network of courts. Finally, the problems of discriminated citizens and judges, who could not exercise their rights in the same way in different environments, were resolved. However, with the bill, it is precisely the citizens' rights that descend by several scales. A bulky network of vessels is being created, which will introduce confusion. The question is how long it's gonna take to make it work, if it's going to work at all. It is necessary to create adequate conditions for her work. The consequences of applying this poor legal solution will eventually be borne by citizens. The question is, will this law result in a reduction in the number of judges and employees in the judicial authorities? Does the law mean that the judges of Pancheva will, if necessary, travel to Kovacica, and with them, court interpreters, experts, investigative judges? If so, then there's no talking about rationalizing costs, but on the contrary. On the other hand, let me remind you once again that the municipality of Kovacica is a multiethnic environment, in which Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian is used next to Serbian. And that's exactly what might be one reason to set an example of how in such multiethnic environments we develop institutions instead of being shut down by the government. There is an impression that this is another one in a series of laws that are passed at the EU's request without respecting our specificities. It's not enough to show someone that they live in an environment in harmony, but you have to work on making it possible for these people to live a better life. You're terminating the municipal court. What's gonna happen next? Will the home of health perhaps become a health care unit? You are not thinking at all about the citizens of Serbia, who will feel the consequences of this law on their skin. It's like the government doesn't care about citizens' lives at all. How will the legislator of this law come to the public, for example, the municipalities of Kovačica, and say – ladies and gentlemen, from today on you no longer have the Municipal Court, a court that has been there since 1872, a court in which equal use of Slovak, Hungarian and Romanian language is used in addition to Serbian language? You'll have a judicial unit, but it's not a municipal court. In the end, you're talking about some decentralisation, but this law, or your moves, points to the opposite conclusion, to strengthening centralised. For this reason, I urge you once again to think carefully about all the consequences you will have under this law. Therefore, I urge you to withdraw this law, or accept the amendments. It is not a big problem, because citizens also know how to appreciate such moves that are in their interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9211	The word is Jovan Damjanović. You've got eight minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9212	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the abolition of certain courts across the Republic of Serbia, and especially where national minorities are present, is unacceptable, as well as that such courts are being moved to other areas. Whether it is called the reorganisation of the court, as it is said, but we believe that courts in certain environments should survive, for the safety of citizens, especially national minorities and their rights in judicial bodies. If we move the courts where the majority of citizens of national minorities are present, Romanians, Slovaks, Hungarians, Bulgarians, and Roma in all Serbian cities, the Roma community is not the only one in Koseric, there is a chaotic situation, and we already have a social problem not only in national minorities, but in almost all citizens, most of the citizens in our Serbia. This creates higher travel costs. We need to know that it's not easy to move the courts from one city to another city, that there's a lot of archives, there's files, there's land books. This all slows down the work of these courts and the right of citizens to meet their needs. The Serbian Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj does not support everything that is not in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The SRS will support everything that is advanced, which is principled and which is a better future for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me, since there was no time for me to report for the disincentive of the courts just now, to talk a little bit about it. The SRS does not support the abolition of a large number of municipal courts in the Republic of Serbia. Why? Thus, we bring the judiciary and the citizens into one confusing state, a chaotic state – long journeys, financial expenditures, inadequate arrival on time, the inability of citizens to get all the rights they seek. Thus, there is a state that is not in the interest of the citizens. In addition to a large number of unemployed citizens in Serbia, already numbering several hundred thousand, the abolition of these courts, a large number in Serbia, will result in a major accumulation of unemployment in our country. This does not contribute to the citizens, nor to the judges and officials who have worked in those courts. Also, I would like to stress that by abolishing this number of courts in Serbia, citizens are losing civil security in our country. When we look at it, it's a great tension, an increase in crime, in all the pores of our society, it's in increased tonality, and instead of strengthening and implementing command, executive and judicial power, we're now moving something. We are fulfilling their principle of work and implementation. I don't think it's necessary to move something that's worked well for centuries and years, all in the interests of citizens and their rights. If we move the courts from certain cities, the citizens will not be able to adequately seek their rights in all those areas where they are dissatisfied, because the court is further, travels longer and does not go into the interest of the citizens. Our state and all institutions should adapt to the citizens of Serbia, Serbia's interests, the interests of the state, not to some individuals, or to laws that are not in the interests of citizens. We need to know that psychological citizens will also be a little disturbed, that there will be a state of dissatisfaction, and there is no reason to come to such a situation, because our judiciary and the judicial authorities have worked for years. Nowhere in the world is 100% positive, there is also the dissatisfaction of the citizens of Serbia who have done what needs to be done, there are some, as some say, inadequate phenomena, but, mainly, unless we have adequate judicial, judicial, commanding, executive, and if we keep moving them, changing them, please, there will be a greater crime in all the pores. That is why the SRS will vote in the interest of the citizens and their better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9213	The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9214	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia supports Nikola Lazic's amendment. The amendment is good, the amendment is in the spirit of all these amendments submitted by the opposition for the territorial organisation of Serbia's courts, provided for by this law. Of course, there's a lot of problems. There's gonna be a lot of rash in the judiciary. In 1992 and 1993, because of the huge inflation, a large number of good judges went to law enforcement, into other affairs, and by organising what is predicted here, I'm afraid we'll also have an outflow of personnel, because it's certain that some judges, most likely, will not be able to bear the burden of these trips, I apologize for defending the traveling circuses, especially among the women who are judging, who are mothers and who are now due to travel from town to town, to spend a few hours on the road, and then, as I've already pointed out, to return to their families. It's certainly going to be one of the more difficult circumstances. I am sorry that the minister is not here right now, because I wanted to get up and ask – was the minister ever in the municipalities of Tutin and Sjenica, to see personally what these areas look like, how they will be tried in these judicial units, in these mountainous areas, where, practically, every winter we hear that the impasse is the road of Novi Pazar-Duga Poljana, Sjenica-Novi Pazar-Tutin. It is certain that during this period these judicial days will be impossible, that the trials provided for in remote judicial units will be conducted, which will slow down any process before those courts. Of course, there will be great legal uncertainty in many cities in Serbia, citizens will have difficulty communicating with the judiciary, and it is nothing new. It is unacceptable that Serbian citizens cannot even exercise their rights now, and how will they exercise their rights when applied in Serbia? We have a paradoxical situation. NS lawmakers have repeatedly pointed out from this pay phone that it is unacceptable that Serbian citizens cannot accomplish, here, I will say, one right, the right to re-register the vehicle. Is it a questionable thing, that a state-owned right to move things becomes property for people who own these cars and for years they can't exercise property rights, which means, one inalienable right, that they can sell their cars, that they can have their own things, that they can put it all off year after year? The citizens have a state, the state has no income from reregistering the vehicle, and these days we all say there's no money in the budget. It's just amazing. They lose everyone, who loses citizens of Serbia, who cannot exercise their right, loses and the state, which cannot fill the budget. When you say something like that to someone anywhere in Europe, in a country, that citizens can't exercise their right, for the simple reason, that they are victims of one thing that happened, which is the unification of the state community, and now they're hostages of such a state, they can't believe it. Once again, the amendments are good, especially this Mr. Nikola Lazic who speaks of territorial distance. All towns in Serbia, all municipalities in Serbia will have the same problem, will have the same problem of citizens, will have a problem with domestic lawyers, will have a problem with the judge and it is simply unacceptable that this cannot be clear to the applicant of the law. It's just not good. You saw that a few days ago, even in Strasbourg, there were words that this law, which will be in the set of laws, had a lot of problems and that it was not in line with some European principles. However, there is no respect for something that is obvious, there is no respect for what is clear to all, and to the Society of Judges, and to the entire judiciary, to all citizens of Serbia, I am absolutely certain that it is clear to many MPs of the position, meaning, ruling parties – there are many problems here, and it is incomprehensible to this kind of stubbornness that occurs with the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9215	Thank you, too. If no one is answering for a word, I'm setting a break, based on Article 85, until 15 o'clock. Mr. Shormaz has submitted an extensive amendment. Bon appétit. [[After break in 15.05]] Hello, I welcome you. We continue our afternoon work where we left off before noon. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? I give my word to Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment is in a series of amendments tabled by the MPs of the DSS, although in principle our proposal is to accept, I repeat once again at the beginning and this afternoon's work, the amendment of MP Milice Radovic, who solves the whole situation, also concerning individual amendments, and for the amendments he has submitted, did not have the number of MPs from the parliamentary majority, or to withdraw the whole law. I looked at that fat strategy we got, about joining the EU, and it's true that this is one of those laws on the list, but it's like the title on the list. This does not mean that it must look like this inside the law, which is currently not what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need. I think this law was written, probably, in a hurry, because of these Eurointegrations. Here, approaching January 1st, there's nothing from the Lisbon Agreement, nowhere to be verified. Not only is Ireland concerned, many EU countries are concerned, which means that the EU has not made a decision on enlargement, so it would be much better to start dealing with what are, indeed, the real standards in our country and the rights of the state organisation, as it should be, rather than some senseless chasing, running and riding bicycles into empty, when it is evident that there is nothing, as it stands today, even from candidate status for entry into the European Union in 2009. This is what some European officials say today. Then it is better to deal with our country than to do some things that are obviously much further than the government in Serbia would like to introduce to the citizens of Serbia. I understand, you've made such promises in election campaigns, both presidential and this for Parliament, so now you're coming up with a failure to keep those promises to the citizens, one by one, but the question is, would, say, citizens in these areas vote for you that they knew that their courts would be lifted. For example, I made an amendment regarding Podunavsky and Braničevsky County. You know, abolishing municipal courts in the Smederjevska Palanca and the Great Plan, these are municipalities with 50,000 inhabitants, these are large municipalities, they have a lot of businesses. I don't know if you know, I'll talk about it when my amendment is tied to economic courts, of the 10 largest exporters in Serbia, three are from the territory of the Danube County. Now the people of these two large municipalities will have to seek the availability of justice in Smedereva, which is not so far away. It's a territorially small county, but with a large population and it's really big municipalities. Both Smederevska Palanka and the Great Plan are major municipalities. On the other hand, Branicevo. This is about small municipalities, and I've had enough trouble seeing, say, an amendment from the G17 Plus MP who's from the Frog. He has now written an amendment to his municipality and asked to remain the court of the Frog. What about Kučev, what about the Frogs, Petrovac at Mlava, who's three times bigger than the Frog? Let him do what he can for the environment from which he is, and for these other municipalities, it doesn't matter, so that the party comrades don't get mad at him. So we have to work the whole system. A frog is a good example. I don't know how many of you know where the Frog is. What's it like for them to get to the Fireman? Which way, through the Krepoljin, should they go to get Petrovec at Mlavi, then reach the Fireman? Do you know what the standard of citizens in the Frog is? Do you know how hard it is for someone in the Frog to pay back a bus ticket to get to the Fireman, and even when he does, that day a man can't work, he has to lose God's whole day? Because, I repeat, from Homolje to the Fireman, that way across the Krepoljin, I don't know how many of you are driving that way. So that citizen looking for something for himself and having to go to the Fireman, there's nothing to do all day; if he's a farmer, there's nothing in his field. On the other hand, if he's poor and most in the middle are poor, where does he get the money to pay for the bus to go and come back? So the availability of justice will be reduced due to this law, especially to poor people, especially in rural areas. How long are you going to think only of Belgrade? The same is true of Kučev, and Petrovac at Mlavi is, on the other hand, the largest municipality, next to Požerevac, in that district. It is indeed a large municipality, with a very large territory, a surface, a place with tradition, a long time ago has a court. We can't figure out why it has to be done this way. Over a hundred barrels. We claim that you were the poorest, and you addressed them most in the campaign, when you talked about a better life, about entering the EU, about a fairer life, about greater employment, etc., obviously, you deceived the most. How will justice be available to someone from the Frog or from the House, how has it been so far, if this law applies? Lucky you're writing January 1st, 2010. Thank God, there is time to change and supplement, and thank God that the next government and the next parliament will change that as soon as possible, because I do not believe that you will welcome, as a government, on January 1, 2010. Why would you make a problem for someone else who runs the country next year, that they have to spend the time and money of taxpayers on changes and additions to this law? Nicely withdraw it, or accept Milice Radovic's amendment, so that we have a much more normal situation, because neither is this solution, if you are already talking about the efficiency of the courts. Let's fix the efficiency of the courts. I know a few examples, and I've already told the minister how many years it's been pending at the start of a trial in Smedereva for some people, for doctors; everything's been there, from various institutions, which have been setting up, corruption, disability pensions, and now we have a problem with paying out pensions. Otherwise, the President of the District Court, chaired by the chairman of the District Court, let the chief accused defend himself from freedom, although the police and the prosecution were against it. They warned him, gave him information that she was going to flee the country, in which case. No, he didn't listen to it, he let himself defend himself from freedom. After less than 24 hours, she left the country and is not in the country until today. The defendant in that case worked at the PIO Fund. On the basis of this, they were used, I agree, by the lawyers of these people, the procedural deficiencies in our laws, the trial has been postponed and, behold, it has been several years, and never begins that trial. We have in that court in Smederev and this trial for the Index affair. You saw that he had to be tried in the O.R. because the court doesn't have that much space. Now transfer more to Plan and Palanca, transfer everything to Smedereva, everything to work in Smedereva, it just doesn't make sense. I have an example, let's say, of the Smedereva Municipal Court -- one of the objects is composed of six previous cases. A man to be tried for six acts, all joined in one case, given once to a judge and never to begin, never to begin. Years have passed, and this has been going on since 2001, 2002. Otherwise, he's already a convicted person, but never to start. Why? So the efficiency of the courts is at stake. It is necessary to work on the efficiency of courts, judges, to control them, as the Society of Judges says, to execute, possibly, changes in laws, to control the work of these courts in a better and more efficient manner. This will only contribute to even greater chaos. It will increase in certain environments, burden the courts, in certain areas they will not be at all. Citizens, I repeat, especially in rural areas, poorer citizens, the availability of justice will be more difficult. Therefore, once again we appeal to you, either withdraw this law or accept the amendment of MP Milica Radovic to get out of this situation and prevent the damage that will take place after 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9218	Thank you. For the word, who is first, I apologize, Aleksandar Martinović, and Zoran Popovic, and Zoran Ostojic, and Mrs Pesic. Please, when you answer the words of the Rules of Procedure, raise the Rules of Procedure, so as not to bring confusion into order. I apologize, Mr. Martinovic, the word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić, who advertises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so we'll hear what member gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9219	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. It's proof that life simply can't wait, which someone would say, we have to bring life back to this room. It's that the courts are important, but something urgent is happening right now. We're covered in information, all kinds of things, about the Energy Agreement with the Russians, with Russia. There are representatives of the Russian state. We think that the public is rightly upset, because, on the one hand, information is being placed that none of the bad agreements, which all of you, except LDP, were ratified in this assembly in September, will be. On the other hand, we hear other stories. It is clear that now, today, Russia cannot guarantee a pipeline, not a simple one, let alone a highway. Clearly, the feasibility study is not complete. That, to remind you, was clear when you voted in favour of the agreement. So we don't have to be surprised by Kriste, Sarancici, the highway concession and various other affairs, so that we can clear up right now what's going on with Serbia's national wealth. We've been, I remind you, against this agreement since the beginning, since January. We were against that pompous signing in Moscow. Then, in electoral silence, we asked the government, and the demonstrations, not to accept that agreement. When we discussed the ratification of the Agreement in this assembly between 5 and 9 September, we made arguments as to why it was not good. You've been making arguments about why he's good, and today we find out that none of these arguments are true. Then, after ratification, we filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court and asked it to assess the constitutionality of the interstate agreement with the Constitution. Until today, the Constitutional Court has not called. Our initiative also proposed temporary measures to suspend the implementation of this unconstitutional, from our point of view, agreement with the Russian state. Therefore, we warn that it is not too late, that this home, the National Assembly, is being informed of what is going on, because I must remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has also taken responsibility for what is happening, by the very act of ratification of the Agreement. We're asking the Constitutional Court to come forward, not to be late, not to be torn down by some kind of contract that might be signed... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... regarding the award of the NIS, and we are asking for an emergency session of the Committee on Industry and for Minister Skundric, who is in charge, to tell us the latest information, because in one newspaper it says it is all over, and in the other, there will be nothing. The information we're getting is really disturbing to keep us out of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9220	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there was abuse of the Rules of Procedure on your part, so I ask you not to do so in the future. The word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure has Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9221	I refer to the same members of the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I really want to get the notice, because things are pretty vague. You can keep track of today's press, it's not a panic, but really, it's a question for me, at least, that some times our country may be overcome by emotions, whether some nationalist enthusiasm of ideology, so they sign on our behalf harmful contracts. It is now evident that this contract is harmful, because we have just been informed that some secret session is being held with the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic with Mr Miller, he is the president of Gazprom. We imagined, and we had some understanding, that this agreement meant three things that were happening at the same time. It means that the South Stream will pass through Serbia, with these 10 billion cubic metres, and more than 10 billion pipelines, which was very important and its importance no one has disputed, nor has the LDP. It was also agreed that Serbia would sell NIS below the price, for 400 million and, now, with very unfavourable other circumstances, which I will say a little later on. Then, the reconstruction of the Banatski Dvor, where the storage of our gas, where it also came into consideration that we were selling our natural resources, and we have no right under the Constitution. Look what's going on right now. The Russians are now asking not to be like a package, three things at once, but to separate these things. It is no longer certain and they themselves say they will not sign, and they are not extensive in either word or guarantee, there is no feasibility study of when and whether they will be profitable and, with a new situation, crisis and recession in the world, whether there will be any South Stream at all. So, they won't guarantee that the flow will go through Serbia, they won't sign it, but, generally, it will be, but they're asking NIS to immediately give 400m euros, not even accept some of the additional conditions we asked for, to invest 500m euros in modernisation, but say, let the NIS itself be in debt for 500m euros, and they will return. In addition, they want to keep the monopoly until 2011, or 2014. years that they're importing oil. Then there is now the question of Serbia's gas supply annex. That's not regulated either. Are we going to put up with some blackmail here, too? So the citizens won't have gas. (President: Your time is up. ) Please, some people love the Russians, various nations, love, love couples, love nations, etc., nationalists, but, when it comes to business, I don't think we're that rich in country that we can give anything to anyone and that we come to such a creepy situation that even the business with Fiat comes to question and the whole architecture possible our defenses in this recession and the protection of our citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9222	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there was an abuse, so I'm asking you not to do it in the future. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Slobodan Maras, Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, and Mr. Zoran Ostojić reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9223	Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Articles 27, 225 and 226. Mr. Chairman, obviously you have different arches. No one here has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but in accordance with the practice, which you have otherwise established and you are sticking to it, that MPs may, by members of 225 and 226 request notices. You said it was an abuse by my two LDP predecessors, which, of course, is not true. I'm sorry Mrs. Malovic isn't here. Mr. Cosic, I hope you will pass it on to her, and if not, I can come out again to remind her that yesterday, to her insistence, I gave the LDP initiative we submitted to the Constitutional Court, which we are asking her to examine the legality and constitutionality of the Oil and Gas Agreement. I wonder if Mrs Malovic asked the Constitutional Court for a report, since it is in her jurisdiction? So, he can request a report from the Constitutional Court, to hear the case, which is why the case, filed under that number, that is, a request for the protection of legality and constitutionality, has not yet come to order. What does it matter? It's because it's assumed that today, or some day after the week, contracts with the Russians will be signed. But I have to remind you all, we've been here discussing a gas-oil agreement that included three things: the sale of NIS for 400m euros and the investment of 500m euros; the construction of a master's pipeline, it all says in one member of the Agreement, and the Banatski Dvor. What do we hear? Since none of the officials can come here, or they can't give real information to the public, but through various channels and media, they release different information, all we hear is that it's going to be about selling NIS for 400m euros. How's that? The sum of 500m euros, which is supposed to be investment in the modernisation of NIS, is delayed from 2008 to 2012. That's what the Russians were looking for. They further requested that the same level of market protection be guaranteed, until the end of the 2014 investment programme, more specifically, require a delay in market liberalisation. Mr. Cosic, it's the opposite of the Constitution. The Russians are still seeking to guarantee Serbia that it will not be punished as the new owner of the NIS, due to outdated equipment. In Article 10, the Russians are looking for a contract offered to the Serbian side on Tuesday that all costs of protecting the environment are borne by Serbia. So, of all the things that you've defended here unmitigatedly, if I have to say so, that's the great interest of Serbia, that the whole package is in question, etc., it's just a dry sale of NIS. That is why we are asking for the appointment of the Committee of Industry on Monday, to have Minister Skundric come and meet us. (President: you've used your time of three minutes. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9224	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226 and I request information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia – did the proposal for an NIS sale by the Russian side arrive at the beginning of the week, in which no word is mentioned either the Gasovod or the Banatski Dvor warehouse? This is extremely important for us from the LDP, because here, in September, we heard that one of the reasons why we need to ratify this agreement with the Russians is this gas pipeline and the reconstruction of the Banatian Court. I also support the initiative, presented by my predecessor, to have the Committee on Industry set up as soon as possible, to invite Minister Skundric to the board, as a member of the 14th agreement reads that the Serbian side represents the Ministry of Mining and Energy. I hope that on this Committee on Industry we can get answers to these questions that LDP MPs are looking for today. Otherwise, today I read in the press that Mr. Miller, chairman of the Gazprom Management Board in Serbia, remains an hour. Even the Rollingstones stayed in Serbia longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9226	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Based on the power vested in in Article 85, I hereby announce that we will extend our work until 21 hours. The word is by MP Zoran Ostojic, advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9227	Mr. Vice President, my fellow Members and fellow Members, I report to members 225 and 226. I don't think I'm using the Rules of Procedure because this is an emergency. We can't ask tomorrow, or next week, because the damage can be done today. On the other hand, believe that we can talk about NIS and this agreement until 9:00. If you're not interested in what's going on, because, with love in your heart, you voted for ratification, we who were against are really interested, because what's ratified is bad for Serbia, and now we hear it's going to be worse. We hear government officials are looking for guarantees for what was bad, and the Russians aren't going to give guarantees for what was bad, they're going to do worse. We in the LDP are asking for a competent resolution minister to come over and tell us if he's really looking for guarantees for bad, so they'll end up agreeing to be worse? Simply, if you don't care about the threat to our country, which is mentioned that if we don't give them NIS, which is only one-third of that bad deal, it will prevent the export of cars to Russia from Serbia and thus bring down the business with Fiat, we don't. If there are threats of suing the state of Serbia to an international court and seeking international arbitration, if that's all the same to you, because of your love for Russia, if Russia is doing it, it's good, and if someone else is doing it, it's not good for us, it doesn't matter. The humiliation of our country to the LDP doesn't matter. Our sale of wealth, we don't care. That's why we're looking for information, and it's not the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. As for the threat, for example, I would like to see if Minister Skundric confirms that he is threatening us with international arbitration. We of the LDP would have an immediate solution to that. We would recommend Mr. Skundric to address Vuk Jeremic. I guess we can file a countersuit right now. We have some experience with countersuits. Well, then can we go against the charges, because they won't respect the agreement? It's serious stuff, Mr. Vice President. I don't know why you keep saying we're abusing the Rules of Procedure. I think it's easier for you to call Mr. Skundric, or to check in, ask the President of Parliament to see what's going on with this Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court can solve this situation. Let's see why the Constitutional Court hasn't said it's in accordance with the Constitution so far. Well, because it doesn't comply with the Constitution. (President: three minutes are up, Mr. Standing. There's time until 9:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9228	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9229	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MPs, we know that one restrictive budget is being prepared. The ministers are unable to agree on the little poverty this Serbia has. But what's going on? It's about to be completed by the NIS sales contract. I remind you, we had an oil-gas deal. All that's left is oil in the optics, the gas just disappeared, and if it's ever going to be, well, you don't know that. Does the government know what he's doing? So I ask her the following questions: is she aware that the NIS deal is humiliating? Is the government aware that NIS is selling against positive regulations without a tender? Is the government aware that NIS is selling to a foreign state firm, therefore, it's a double etatization? Is the government aware that Serbia is giving up oil rents with this sale? Is the government aware that NIS is selling for half the price? Is the government aware that this is a harmful contract? If it is a harmful contract, then the question of the responsibility of the one who concludes the contract is raised. Whoever closes a contract that is harmful is doing damage, and this way harms the state of Serbia. Is the government aware that the chairman of the Gazprom Management Board, Mr. Miller, is threatening us with a very arrogant tone? It points out that Russia does not think of giving any guarantee regarding the rest of the oil-gas deal, therefore, to the gas part that was least controversial – the oil part is controversial. These are clear questions and, therefore, I refer to Articles 31, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. It's not about the injury. It's about the questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9230	Thank you, but in that case, you couldn't get word to article 100. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but there are abuses from your home. Before I give my word to the next MP, I remind you that the subject we are discussing is the amendment to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word Mr. Maras, so Mr. Ostojić, then Ms. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidency, Article 27, Mr. Novakovic, you have broken him again. You don't treat all MPs the same way, you don't treat MPs the same way. You interrupted me in the third minute, you turned off the microphone – you don't do it for days when other parliamentary groups are involved. You're acting, you're starting to look more like Gordana Komic. You have begun to comment on the long speeches of the MPs and to say that the pay phone is being misused. That's not true. We're talking about life. We're talking about something very important for the state of Serbia. I will remind you that a highway pipeline has been promised, it is a promise, and what is a fact – a study, only 2010, on the construction of a pipeline, uncertain due to the economic crisis. It is promised that the 2010 study is uncertain due to the economic crisis. Environmental protection and modernisation have been promised – the fact is that modernisation is delayed, and all costs related to environmental impairment will be borne by the state of Serbia. I would just like to remind the citizens of Panchev in what kind of situation they are living in, and what a situation they will only live in when it comes to environmental protection, because the state of Serbia cannot protect the environment, especially from so much pollution that it will be, for the simple reason that more oil will be processed. They are responsible, gentlemen, who have persuaded you to vote in favour of this agreement. They tried to transfer responsibility to the congregation. The assembly voted in favour of the Oil-Gas Agreement, but I underline that the Oil-Gas Agreement, the citizens of Serbia, was voted in this assembly by the votes of all parliamentary groups, except for LDP, SVM and the SDV League. Everyone else voted in favour of the Oil and Gas Agreement. We are now offered to sign only one contract, which envisions the sale of NIS for 400m euros. NIS is a 20-seat company in Europe. We sell such a company for 400m euros. There's nothing from the master's pipeline, there's no one to promise. I understand the Russian side – defending their interests. Who defends our interests? You've accepted that 3% be a mine rent. Nowhere in the world is 3% ore rent. We made a commitment to the Russians that the mining rent would remain 3 percent forever. So no one can make it bigger. It's over 30% in Russia itself. We promised we wouldn't change any laws that could damage them. They demand to have the same position as the NIS, which was the firm of the state of the Republic of Serbia, and now the Russian state is seeking to have the same position. There's not a single company in this country, not domestic, not foreign. You're putting yourself in the colony. You can shut us down after three minutes, since we can talk about this for three hours, minimum.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9232	So, I don't turn the microphone off to anyone and never. The Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić, so Ms. Jovanovic, and Mrs. Vesna Pesic, and Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9233	Mr. Vice President, I don't understand how you don't realize that we want to help you. You know, we wouldn't want, say, you, or someone from your party, to say again in seven days, so we didn't know what the pay was for Krist, so we didn't know that this Tirkayle, or what it's called, was getting four salaries, so we didn't know that the concession had some secret contracts and it was bad. After all, to be honest, Mr. Vice President, we also help the president of your party, because he said that behind the campaign against you and the Krists are Russians, some told him, and he doesn't know if it's true. So let us do the work of the MP. This is an important thing for Serbia. If the president of Gazprom comes to class, and there are threats coming along -- arbitration, this and that, I'm sorry, I guess we need to know what's going to happen. We were saying it was bad. Now it turns out to be worse than bad. Your silence, those of you who voted for ratification, is also indicative. I must tell you honestly, if you were afraid of what you did, that's good, because fear is a man's friend. Fear shows conscience and responsibility, and there's no problem with LDP. Let's see what's going on. Are those stories true that the Russians want to take just NIS without giving us any guarantees for the pipeline? We said we didn't have anything against the pipeline and it doesn't have to be highway. We're not going to kill ourselves with money from Republika Srpska, because that's where he'll go anyway, if he goes out of Serbia. We were saying that, after all, that pipeline is mostly owned by a Russian company and it will determine what will be the price for the transport, for the transit of gas. The headquarters of that company, probably, or according to the agreement that we ratified here, unfortunately, may be in Cyprus, perhaps in Switzerland -- does not have to be in Belgrade. Serbia, then, would have nothing to do with it. But we said, OK, if a pipeline gets in from the south to Serbia, that's good, it doesn't have to go anywhere else, Serbia needs gas. You said that, in order for that to happen, we have to give NIS to them for 400 million. What now? Don't, Mr. Chairman, talk about abuse of the pay phone. You can call the minister, you can call the Prime Minister, it would be good to see him again, and you can call President Tadic, who took over his post and is the Prime Minister. We need to find out what's going on, because that's what the citizens are interested in. We represent citizens here, and that's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9234	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9235	Mr. Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by Article 31, I am reporting from collegiate solidarity, because I always think that justice and democracy should be defended, which is why we are here in the Assembly, and because of your inappropriate remarks just now, I am a colleague of Juditi Popovic, who, just like you and my littleness, is Vice President of the National Assembly, and I am reporting by Article 226. Rules of Procedure. We have a paradoxical situation to yesterday, one identified person, here usurping one of the vice-presidential seats of the SRS, which Mr. Suleiman Spaho explained nicely yesterday. On the other hand, you, Mr. Novakovic, in your explanation of our business right to use and to look for information under Article 226, you tell the Vice-President of the Assembly – you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because she called for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or for the right to use it, to appear after the speaker, and then to request certain notices. Now I, too, will, under Rule 226, ask for certain notifications, so I expect you to tell me that, like my colleague Popovic, I am violating the Rules of Procedure, and you are only one of five, how valid and how legitimate the vice president is. Last night, at the end of my day, I started a story related to Citadel, Paul Kavran, his own brother Olga Kavran, the Hague Kazamat, and the commission they received for the strategic conclusion of the flag contract with the Italian Fiat. However, the thing is even more tragic for the people of Kragujevac and the workers of the flag, because of the fact that there is nothing from the promised 3,500 to 5,000 jobs; it is true that only 2,400 workers will be employed. It is true that Fiat will invest not 700m euros in the first phase, but only 200m euros later, following the situation in the context of the global economic crisis and the fact that both the production and sales of cars of all companies in the world, and therefore more than 400 on the entire planet, will see things in the future, where Serbia is located, where the market is and, worst of all, there is nothing new. So we ask such questions, which are vital to people who are poor. Of course, the information is that it was ordered from the diocese of the Catholic priest that, certainly, he should stay in Kragujevac, because in Kragujevac, in the city centre, there is a Roman Catholic church, because there will be 1,000 workers from Italy, not management, not director, not engineers, but labour force, because in the Treaty, which you waved to get votes from the voters on 11 May, it did not stand, then it was the Memorandum, which the workers will be employed. It will not be workers from Kragujevac and Šumadija, Serbia, but Italians, who will come and look for a large lease and buy apartments. (President: it's half a minute, please finish. ) I end up, Mr. Novakovic, but soon we will end up with this bad and catastrophic rule of you and Boris Tadic, Dinkic and the whole regime that is ruining the state and the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia, every day, more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9236	There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You've been talking for almost 50 seconds longer, so if it's not abuse, I don't know what it is. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9237	I continue with the advocacy of Deputy Prime Minister Dacic, who led our delegation, almost, to Moscow and who is probably the most verifiable at this moment what is actually happening, because today we see that in the paper we should not lose a great political friend. So the question is, is there someone's friendship in this business that's been made? Of course, it implies that this applies to Kosovo, especially now that Eulex has arrived. Now that doesn't make any sense either, since what the UN has fallen off is where the Russians could have done something. Now Kosovo has taken the Eulex, and that argument is a waste, but I'm putting it this way -- on everything the Serbian side has demanded, the Russians said --no. So, we asked to create one roof contract and three individual contracts, to ensure, because the Russians themselves said that the South Stream is coming into question and that they can't guarantee, because of the heavy recession and new circumstances, we asked for it to be signed immediately, roof, plus three individual ones, and the Russians said - out of the question. Then, we asked, too, to sign an immediate purchase agreement on NIS, but by handing the NIS over to the Russians when the construction of South Stream begins, and the Russians again said "it", out of the question. Then, the Serbian side asked to be paid for those 400m, at that low price, insufficient, 19.5%, meaning another 700m euros, however, they said it was out of the question. It was also required 500 million for the modernisation of NIS, and they said – out of the question. The question is, what kind of political decision is now, who should be politically answering, but Minister Dacic said that this is a big political friend, although I just said that emotions and friendships are one thing and business and interests, a whole other thing. Since we heard, as I said earlier, that Mr. Miller has only one hour for that Serbia, that friendly country, how much the Russians love us, I have the impression that they totally despise us, because they realized that we are blind, stupid and that we cannot defend our interests, and when they see them, they say – step on it, use it, why don't we take it. They're minding their own business, and we can't defend ourselves, because it's a spider in our eyes, what we do, it's our responsibility. I'm just going to end up with President Tadic personally responsible for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9238	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I owe you one explanation. So today's work has been extended to 21 hours because of the importance of the topic on the agenda, which is the debate on the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors in particular and on other topics that MPs bring before this assembly. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word, so the MPs Slobodan Maras and Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9239	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting from an article. 225 and 226. First of all, I'd like to rephrase to you and say that what you're saying to the LDP MPs is that there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, your personal conviction. I would like to ask the question to the Serbian Government – is this rush to sell NIS, without a pipeline contract, without a 'Banatski Dvor' contract, conditioned by the adoption of a new budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, or whether the Serbian government wants to forge the NIS by falsifying the party from Vojvodina, and I am exceedingly referring to the party of the duchy Hungarians, the League of Social Democrats, in order to adopt this budget, in order to meet the constitutional obligation that 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget goes towards financing the province of Vojvodina? If that's true, we should get that information. Also, I would remind MPs of the ruling coalition that they received a good share of the vote, precisely thanks to the agreements they adopted at the government of the Republic of Serbia two days before the May 11th elections. That deal meant both gas and oil and Banatski Dvor. Finally, I repeat, we are asking, LDP, that Mr. Skundric, if he has divided the banners around the Prepolje and other municipalities, comes to the Industry Committee and finally tells us whether a proposal for a contract from the Russian side is received, which does not mention a pipeline or mention the 'Banatski dvor'.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9240	Thank you. Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9241	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, first, Article 104. Mr. Chairman, the way you addressed the Vice-President of the Assembly, expressing your opinion that the abuse of the Assembly speaker, or Rules of Procedure, is the most important thing about you. The fact that you are trying to lead this congregation in a nonchalant way will not take responsibility from you and your party and the ruling majority. You, Mr. Novakovic, along with your party, sat in the government that decided on the Horgos-Požega concession. What happened to that concession? Peel the dots, it doesn't work. Together with your party, your coalition partners and most in the Assembly, you voted in an oil-gas agreement. What about the oil-gas deal now? Someone's responsible for that. This non-chalantity is good for you, but it will not take responsibility off of you and all those who have tried to threaten Serbia's interests in this way, in the most possible way. You too, Art. 225 and 226. I ask the Government for an answer, but urgently – who is threatening the Government? Today we read in "Politica" a statement by the director, the chairman of the Management Board, what is, of the other state's company, "Gaspromnjefta", and he threatens the Serbian government. By doing so, he threatens the MPs, and the citizens, and everyone else. What is this attitude towards Serbia? Did you vote for that agreement? We talked all the time – you can't talk about a partner relationship, because a partner relationship isn't if someone has 51%. I said 70 times - the Russians will act like bosses; that's how they behave. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia will have great damage. Article 77 of this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Vice President, at the moment of the chairmanship, I ask you to contact the President of the Assembly, since I do not see Mr. Buhu here, who is the chairman of the Industry Committee. You are now replacing the president of the assembly, you can schedule a Committee on Industry, hear Minister Skundric and hear what's going on. He must tell us, since he was in a delegation that went to Moscow the other day, he received a letter saying that the Russians were conditioning that agreement, which was already unfavourable for Serbia, replays 100 steps backwards. How long did it take to negotiate? Will we agree to blackmail, threats by Russia to sell them NIS for 400,000 euros, and the Gas Agreement, the Banatski Dvor, when the time comes, that is, if the economic crisis allows, which is now a super excuse for not making the contract? Mr. President, we ask you to contact the president, or to take responsibility, as you took it when you voted for this agreement, to schedule a Committee on Industry, to have Minister Skundric come and the MPs know what is going on, because the interests of Serbia are at stake, the Constitution is threatened and our future will be threatened in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9242	He has the word of Mrs. Judita Popovic, vice president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9243	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, I have just called on Article 31. Rules of Procedure, also in Art. 225th and 226th, and I'm saying that now too. If I called on article 31. Rules of Procedure, I have the right, as vice president of the National Assembly, to assist the President of the National Assembly in doing business from his work. We believe that his work also includes taking care of the current topics, allowing MPs to discuss the current topics. The most recent topic today is that the signing of the NIS sales contract is being prepared. So nothing is more important today, not a network of courts or anything else, except to discuss what it's all about, whether it's really going to be sold under those conditions that we know are foreseen by an oil-gas agreement. This, again, is about only one part of the Agreement, it's about the Oil Agreement, not the Gas Agreement. The gas agreement was an alibi for which we offered NIS – here is NIS half the price, give us gas, that Serbia has gas, that gas does not collect etc. However, we have come to the situation of bringing the country into energy dependence on one side of the country, from which we cannot expect any mercy. Well, Mr. Mile said -- what a guarantee, what kind of coppers you have to sign, and that's it, we don't guarantee you anything. Now it's very relevant that the price of gas is too high, that there was no correction at all, that there was a reduction in the price of gas. We didn't get valid answers why the gas was expensive, we didn't get answers about what's going on with the middleman, what's going on with 30,000,000 euros, which is supposed to be paid to the middleman, that famous 'Yugorosgas'. Therefore, if we are in a situation and an energy crisis, because we are about to collect electricity, I believe that the Assembly is the place to discuss it, to get answers from the executive, to try to find a common solution, to help this country, to help the citizens of Serbia, and to help ourselves. I guess we're all citizens of this country. So, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I have the right to appeal to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, as vice president of the Assembly, because I'm not that ficus, I'm the same vice president as the other five vice presidents, sitting next to the president.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9244	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric, so Mr. Ostojić, so Mr. Batić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9245	Article 77 paragraph 3 and Article 103 — destruction of the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 77 – please call for an urgent session of the Industry Committee as soon as possible. Since you are replacing Madam President of Parliament, you are obliged to do so. Meanwhile, it was announced that the agencies found out that the deal was to sign a contract for NIS by the end of the year, then, in some perspective, to sign an agreement on the basic conditions of construction of the "South Stream" pipeline, and then to sign a memorandum of "Gasproma" and "Srbigas" on the construction of a gas storage facility "Banatski Dvor". Apparently, everything's fine, the oil-gas deal is fulfilled, but, of course, it's a lie. Only the NIS sale contract is a valid document. The government has resorted to what it has been doing for several months since it was established. We ask that Minister Skundric come quickly and explain to us – why did they break the law by resigning from the mandate given to them by the Serbian Parliament? They came here looking for support from the Assembly for one text contract. Although the LDP voted against it, most voted for it. What happened in the last three months and who has the right to sign another contract now? What's the content of that contract? What are the reasons for that? Why does one Deputy Prime Minister, Mladjan Dinkic, say there won't be a 'South Stream' and the other says it will be? About this mob paper that I'm not talking about. They turned out today that the South Stream was already built. Who does that? Let me give you another argument. Please, Mr. Chairman, don't go deaf on him. Now I quote, so please stop my time: "... If I were to speak very simply, could Serbia in some respect have come to a higher price if it had gone to a separate tender and sold NIS in tranches for the next 15 to 20 years, similar to what they did, for example, Hungary and Austria? The answer is yes. On the other hand, very clearly, in the negotiations, the Russian Federation said that it sees the Energy Agreement as the whole agreement, that they want to build a pipeline with us, but that they want to establish relations in the domain of the oil industry at the same time. That's the whole story and that's the whole reality. That is why this agreement should be seen in its entirety. It's easy to find a flaw in one piece, but if we look at it in general, and I didn't even talk about geopolitical meanings, etc." That's what your Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic said, asking us to vote for ratification of the Gas Agreement with Russia. We are now asking you not to ignore reality, not to deal with manipulations, but to come to Minister Skundric, Bozidar Djelic, Ivica Dacic, who is already involved in this, and to explain what the contents of these documents are. If it could have been signed a contract for NIS, why wasn't a contract signed on the construction of 'Banatski Dvor', why wasn't a contract signed on the construction of 'South Stream', or, if that wasn't possible, why did NIS have to be sold by the end of this year? We're asking for these explanations from the government, because we're not interested in your interpretation of what abuse is, what is use. This is Parliament's control function. Wanting to tell you what else one said, I don't know if the MP, Mr. Bajatovic, believed it or not, they managed to agree and that "Yugorosgas" remains an intermediary in the sale of gas in Serbia. Mr. Vice President, these are very important topics. Please exercise your right and appoint an Industry Committee and invite the Secretary-General to explain to us the exact content of these contracts, agreements, memos. As you can see, they've made every effort to explain the contents and their binding part.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9246	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9247	Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, members of 225 and 226. We insist, Madam President, on the Committee on Industry and Skundric, under Article 14 of that agreement, which was ratified in September, that the authorities were empowered to implement this agreement, on the Russian side, the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Russian Federation, and on the Serbian side, the Ministry of Mining and Energy of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, Mr. Skundric may not be authorized anymore, as the negotiations were conducted by the director of the "Serbiagas" Bajatovic and Dacic. They can come, too, but as Vesna said, it couldn't have gone the second time that someone else was responsible, so tomorrow, when we see the disaster of this agreement, when the Pancheva refinery is being calculated without modernization, because the Russians say, we'll take credit, NIS, as if NIS can't take credit now, when we're being poisoned by Russians, not Serbs, and for someone it might be acceptable, then the SPS won't be guilty, as Velya almost turned out to be the only culprit for the bad concession. No, gentlemen, you've been sitting in the government, you've voted together, you're standing behind it together, and it's not going to be the Democratic Party, which is the headquarters of the coalition, all of this to move to the 'Trio Fantikus' that went to Moscow to negotiate, consisting of Dacic-Škundric-Mrkonjic. No, no, they won't be guilty, like Vela's not guilty of the concession, or he's not the only one to blame. Gentlemen, when was the policy on the cover the last time she had a title today? You know what he's like. "Russi Threats." Last time it was 1948. You think this is not the topic to be discussed in this House – the Russians are threatening. We want to hear it. If they're going to sue us, though we're good with countersuits, so we're going to prove to them, if they're going to threaten us, that they might not threaten to recognise Kosovo if we don't give them NIS? Maybe that's it? The MPs have the right to know. Do they have the right to know why they're breaking what was bad, but what you thought was good? Simply, we want to talk to the authorities, and whoever knows is in charge, even if this one has three seats 15,000 euros a month, I mean Bajatovic, because he negotiated. We want information. That information is important. It can't be smudged, as it is now trying to get through a contract only for NIS, and the rest being on 'I come to you', that it's not a good job for Serbia – we're not going to get them right now, and they're going to get us a pipeline – a little tomorrow. Today, Russian paid lobbyists write in some newspaper – how can we seek a guarantee for the pipeline when neither Bulgaria nor Hungary nor Italy asked for it? Well, we can, because none of these countries gave them NIS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9248	Mr. Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9249	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 225 and 226. A question for the government. In a normal democratic country, if something like this happened, the government would fall immediately. Why? Because he does not respect Parliament's decision. This isn't a ratified NIS sale. The Oil and Gas Agreement has been ratified. This is not what we should be talking about who voted against, but you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, should explain what you voted for and that you are looking for a change in that gas-naphtha arrangement. It was clear that the agreement, in the beginning, is part of the compensation for what the Russians will preserve for us Kosovo. That they saved Kosovo, so we could give them NIS without compensation, and EPS, and something else, but they didn't save it. The first escaped from Kosovo and the whole series was low on the Russian side. Remember the statement on Russian state television and the insult on behalf of late Prime Minister Djindjic, you, gentlemen of the ruling majority, remember that. Dusan Petrovic went to ask for the extradition of Mira and Mark, he never came back, they gave them asylum. Now, with one humiliating relationship, we release them, citizens of Russia, bound to have visas. We still have visas when we go to Russia. The gas for Serbia is the most expensive, with intermediaries and thieves who have made business for themselves. So, in this situation, there are only two options – either to change the gas-oil arrangement, or to postpone everything for 2010, when it will be known if there is a pipeline. Because we can't get them right away, and they can't get us a pipeline -- maybe, we'll see, on faith, on a "restraint," on "I'm coming to you." People, no one can play with state capital and the fate of the country and the fate of the citizens. I'd like someone from the ruling majority to come out and explain what you've ratified. So either to postpone everything for 2010, or to cancel everything, so that the NIS is put on the tender, so for that difference of five, six, or more hundred million, we could supply ourselves with gas for the next 50 years. Take those of you who do this, put it on paper, that bill, and you'll see that it's true what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9250	Mr. Maras, then Mrs. Pesic. I'd like to ask the chairman of the Industry Committee to schedule a session of the Industry Committee just to let us know of the term to inform the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9251	I'm advertising members 225 and 226. Madam President, you might as well schedule that committee. Right now, the chairman of that board, Mr. Buha, is not in the O.R. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you can schedule that committee and resolve all the dilemmas when it will be, on Monday. You haven't been in the O.R. since the beginning, but I assume you've been following one piece, or you've been notified. The LDP has been trying for an hour and 15 minutes to point out the following facts – that the ratified, in this assembly, the Oil and Gas Agreement, which has transferred responsibility to the Assembly, will not be respected. It's just about selling NIS. We've heard that there are contracts here, very unfavorable for Serbia. If I remember correctly, when there was a public debate, without any desire to challenge Mr. Ilic's replica, I remember that Mr. Ilic said this was not the only agreement that was signed. We want to know what's behind this whole story. What's the subject of the store? Serbian citizens need to know that. I also call on parliamentary groups of those parties that have not voted on the Oil and Gas Agreement, more specifically, the League of Social Democrats Vojvodina and SVM, to say a word about saying whether they are satisfied now with the price of 400m euros for NIS, regardless of what will be violated after that and the Privatisation Act. Mrs. Kolundzhija, you are the first representative of the ruling majority in this assembly, I hope you know that what has been violated by the Constitution, when the Oil and Gas Agreement has been ratified, the Privatisation Act has also been passed. Yesterday, the president of the Vojvodina Executive Council said that on the basis of the sale of the NIS of 400m euros, Vojvodina would receive 360m euros in the budget, to replace the hole created by making, or by proposing a new budget. You don't just step on the Constitution, step on the Privatization Act. Instead of 50%, you give 90%. I'm interested in whether the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina and SVM will agree to such a thing? Bojan Pajtic obviously agreed, but will they agree to sell NIS for 400 million? We don't think that's enough. We have nothing against Russia. I really think that whoever offers a number in a tender, let's give it to the Russians at the same price. We absolutely don't mind a Russian partner, but to be a partner, not a master, who comes to Serbia, or the day before he comes, and threatens through the media to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I call again on Mrs. Ljiljak to come to the pay phone, if she has something to say, and not to throw it out of the assembly bench, because you, the president, are not responding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9252	Mrs. Pesic has a word. I'd like to say that I've taken every technical type of action to schedule a committee, but since the board president was here today and he's probably somewhere in the Assembly, we're trying to make contact with him to do it. In case he doesn't do it by the end of the day, we'll consider the possibility of me making an appointment. Either way, the board meeting will be scheduled for Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9253	I wanted to explain a little bit more my performance today on this subject. I don't usually use the Rules of Procedure to make any kind of obstruction. It's not the style of my work at all, but I'd like to explain that this time it's not at all. It's not about obstruction. We can see that there is indeed a tremendously difficult situation in our country. We have a very weak economy. We have seen that today Mr. Jelasic has withdrawn some very difficult measures for our economy. He has now seduced that loans will be terribly expensive. In other words, every 60 dinars of credit, it's about withdrawing dinars from optics, in order to maintain the power of a constantly falling dinar, 40 dinars must be placed in reserves. What does that mean? I'm saying this because of our citizens, that they understand that I'm not going out for this pay phone to waste time, to keep the story of the judiciary, but that this is directly affecting the fundamental interests of the citizens. The employers will fire our workers. They'll be out of a job. We don't know what the situation of that recession will be. We don't even know if growth will be as the government predicts – 3 to 3.5%. Maybe the situation will get worse. In this situation, when there is a recession in the world, when we have an unhealthy and poor economy, these things are completely inadmissible, because it makes our people's condition worse. In such a situation, when threatened by such a recession, when they threaten layoffs, when they freeze wages, Serbia, as some drunken millionaire, also takes on some great world power to give our largest industry, the oil industry, which, among the three companies, has successfully done business in the past year. If we can live off it, we now take that during this month we should sell NIS, immediately, and everything else from that contract that the ruling coalition has ratified – it is delayed. Those are some declarations. It's some sort of memoranda. They won't give us any guarantees. I was the first in this parliament to say, I'm just going to remind you, it was last year, when news of NIS bowing down to the Russians, and it was planned, as you know, to be the main source of free action -- will Serbia ever learn anything from history, will we repeat it again in 1948? Is it gonna be big for the Russians again? I think many remember that, when Mr Tomislav Nikolic came out and said – what does it matter, it was communism. (President: Time. Then there was ideology, and today there is ideology. We haven't learned anything from history. We're still selling our resources, and we're still going to be a poor country that crawls and has no dignity when it comes to its interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9254	Mrs. Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9255	I just want to inform the People's MPs, given that there have been several times heard here that there should be an appointment of the Committee on Industry, and that the President of the Committee is gone, that the president of the Committee, of course, does. He is alive and well, but, given that Friday, according to the Rules of Procedure, an unwork day for Parliament, Mr Bhuha, the SRS MP and the president of the Republika Srpska government has scheduled a session of the Republika Srpska government for this afternoon and is at the government meeting, so you don't have to worry about where he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9256	Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9257	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, is a great responsibility in this assembly. This assembly ratified an oil-gas deal with the Russian side. I remind you, it was the Russian side that insisted on a legal matter. This business consisted of selling NIS, building the master's southern gas pipeline and the 'Banatski Dvor', as construction, or construction, expansion of the gas storage facility. It's a legal business, which means that if one part of that agreement is not respected, the other parts can't be implemented either. From today's situation, which is evident, it can be concluded that the problem is to respect the remaining two parts of the Treaty, which is the 'Banatski dvor' and the freeway south flow of the pipeline. No one mentions masterhood alive anymore, and the South Stream is predicted one day when grapes are born on vervain. Therefore, if we do not have a specific deadline for building the southern master's current, if we do not have a guarantee of what capacity that pipeline will be, if we do not have a guarantee that the warehouse will be built, built, reconstructed, or whatever, in that case, we cannot, like this assembly, participate in this NIS award farce to a foreign state firm. For this reason, we insist and ask that certain steps be taken to ensure that this work, which clearly continues to take place, is interrupted, and I ask the Assembly to be in this solidarity, because the greatest responsibility will be on those who have ratified, who, therefore, have given consent, despite all this, to bring this agreement to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9258	Mrs. Kolundjia. The colony has an advantage, so you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9259	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this question is legitimate for us. In recent days, in the media, we've been getting rather contradictory information, information that can bring confusion, which can bring suspicion and that leaves a lot of questions open. Therefore, we believe that Monday's request to schedule a committee, a parent board, is a legitimate request, which we support. I'm just asking you to keep working now, and by 18 hours, we'll have the time to hold this committee's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9260	Mr. Andric. I think Mrs. Kolundji's proposal is extremely correct. We'll have a committee session by 18 hours. The information I have is that it is a delegation of Russia here today, that the most responsible members of our negotiating team are talking today, that nothing will be known until late tonight, while the talks continue. Therefore, I understand the need to draw attention to this issue to both citizens and all those responsible for this issue, but I think that our correct work, with this level of distraction, would really be a correct message, so please move to work on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9261	I want to thank you for accepting our initiative, but there are a few other things we'd like to say about that. First, in addition to holding a session of the Committee, we would like to be assured that one of the authorities will be present at that session, which I think is understood, because it is politically important. It's clear to us what happened. So, because these talks, in a certain way, failed, not to blame anyone in particular, simply, the global financial crisis, as we know, has hit the most Russian firm, Gazprom is damaged for over, if I'm not wrong, maybe I'm wrong, 50 billion dollars, it's very certain that this pipeline won't be built. That's what they're saying. Now, since it's obvious that the intention to parallelize one valid document and two fake, is due to the so-called. The PR, in order to be able to say, here, as I have already received news from B-92, that a contract was signed on the construction of the South Stream, which, of course, is not true, we do not want this to turn into a debate for and against Russia, since it is rather pointless for us, as the Serbian Parliament, to discuss the roles and interests of another country. This is exclusively about the responsibility of the Serbian government. The Russian moves in these negotiations were, from their point of view, perfect. Our problem is that unlike Tito, whose mention you're all laughing at, which in 1948 said "no" to Stalin, there's no one in this country who can say "no" to that guy Miller. So that's our problem. We insist that someone come and that, if you claim, as you already claim in the media, that all three parts of this agreement will be respected, we want someone who is a political factor, prime minister, deputy prime minister, minister of energy to come and make a public promise to all MPs of time and time when it will be done. On that basis, we will show, or time will show, whether we are right to claim that it is not realistic to build that pipeline, not because of someone's will, simply, that's right, or you're right. There's a lot of reason for doubt. The same firm, Jugorosgas, signed a pipeline contract in southern Serbia. Where's the pipeline? Where's that pipeline? What happened to that? No consequences. The particular question we want to raise is the question of "Yugorosgas". Today, Bajatovic, president, or director of "Srbijagas", said Serbia has returned its ownership of Gazprom to 49%. It's a lie, Serbia never had a 49% property, it had a 50% property. It is a way of affecting the decision, a way that, when "Yugoros" says – gas collects from 120 to 330 dollars, Serbia says – no. Now it doesn't matter if it's 49 or 25, it's just about the amount of money someone takes for themselves. It is a subject, but not a primary one. It is primary that no property has been returned again, or co-ownership of a company that is directly responsible for delivering gas to Serbia and thus is a monopoly. That's what happened. We can talk from today to Monday night about the shortcomings of these agreements. Thank you for taking the initiative. I ask that by Monday MPs receive the texts of these agreements, agreements, memos, whatever is signed; some Russian-Serbian agreement on business dialogue was also mentioned. That's how pointless it sounds, and we want to see what it is. I ask you to ensure the presence of those in charge, who will take responsibility for themselves and not take cover from the Russian side and say that, yes, the South Stream will be built then, the Banatski Court will be restored then. That's what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9262	The questions are quite explicit, clearly. We made contact with the Ministry of Industry. The minister will arrive Monday morning, only the appointment is agreed. I'd like the board to schedule the board president. In case we don't communicate with him, I'll make an appointment. I think we have really started a topic that is vital to Serbia and I think that this assembly initiative is in a correct and very detailed way elaborated. I hope we've exhausted it. Anyone else want a word? Here you go. Mr. Ostojić, then Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9263	Art. 225 and 226. We are prepared to conclude that at this point, it would be an acceptable explanation that Mrs Kolundjia has given you, Madam President. But I have one question, technically, although it's not, because Monday seems like it's a long way off and someone's trying to get divorce stuff, beat up their PR and marketing money over the weekend and not get the right information at the right time. So, do we, Madam President, work tomorrow? If the Assembly is working tomorrow, we don't see why this committee wouldn't be held tomorrow, especially in light of the fact that Monday is Bajram.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9264	I thought we'd be working on the agenda today, so we don't work tomorrow without getting ready for Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9265	If that's the case, then fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9266	That's right, but on the condition that we're really doing a little bit and a half on the agenda, if possible, to make a contribution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9267	If we're not working tomorrow, fine, Monday, but I don't know, because of Bajram. We think we said about this moment what we had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9268	Mr. Ilic has a word, please. Mr. Marash, too. I think we're really bringing an end to the debate on this subject. Come on, Mr. Ilich and Mr. Marasha, and let's move on to the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an extremely unpleasant situation to discuss in Parliament the Gas Agreement, which this parliament voted 214 for. After that, however, a number of situations arise, and the press uses it most, and now, depending on who reads it, it has information and thus discusses it. We don't know who's negotiating anymore, who's talking to whom, where they're talking, who's in charge of it. That part of the contract that was signed, that was good and Parliament accepted it, then the government, without any vote against, accepted it. The President of the Republic explained it in Moscow and praised the agreement. But now everyone interprets it in their own way, statements are given where anyone arrives, as well as about the concession, and how anyone gets to comment. Some advice is being made that has its own interpretations. And the concession was adopted in Parliament. I don't see that after some piece of advice, it can bring down and create some confusion among Serbian citizens. I ask that responsible people come here and say what they signed, who negotiates and what negotiates, who is responsible for the negotiations? Can we follow up, have a review of the negotiations? What Dacic was negotiating was good. As far as I'm concerned, it's a sequel to something that's been arranged. I can't understand these three points aren't being fired. Therefore, this is a serious agreement and one of the ministers has to come, to have the prime minister, as the government's most responsible person, see if he's the main man in that government and if there's any idea what anyone in the government is doing. I know the government has problems, here's the budget. Today, yesterday it was due, tomorrow it will be adopted by the government. Make a deal, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, tell us what you want, tell us what your goal is. Have you deviated from that text of the Agreement that has been ratified in Parliament? Why did you bring down the concession? I know it was the will of a political party, which expressed its support for the government if the concession simply collapsed. That's a great deal. I repeat, he received unanimous support from both the first and other Kostunica's governments. They're all responsible for what it is. And here, in Parliament, he received huge support. (President: Time. Let's see what we want. Someone's reading "Kurr", someone's "Politics", someone's "News", interprets journalists as they arrive, and we're here to discuss a serious agreement. Is that the amended agreement we signed in Moscow? I signed it and got the government's consent to sign it. I'd like to know who's captain of the negotiating team. Let that captain come in here and tell us, gentlemen, we haven't signed that yet, we need to sign that, and this, this is controversial, this isn't. Then we'll clear up the situation. Now, we're finishing the year, and we haven't defined anything. Budget - we don't know where we're going, what we're going to do. Here, Pitiæ boasts this morning, "A successful budget, we've boxed, we're done." Everyone's done something, everyone's happy, and we, who should vote it out and adopt the Budget Law, have no idea. (President: Time, Mr. Ilich. If we have ratified something, has it changed? What's changed? Who changed and who authorized him to change? If we've adopted a concession here, what advice has ruined the concession, and now, based on a statement from the council, the concessionaries are suing and they'll get a dispute, because before the contract expires, someone has come out and said it won't work, the banks have said – goodbye... (President: Will you finish? )......................................................................................................... They're now saying, "Now you're going to pay for the damage." Who are these people who behave like this and don't respect the highest institution in this country - the Serbian Parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9270	Mr. Marash has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9271	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundzija, I find your proposal to be correct and satisfying for those demands that we have made, which is that the Committee on Industry is urgently scheduled and that we know everything that is necessary, and for what there is conflicting information in the public. But there's something else we want to say, and that's that we want the director of Srbiagas to be present. We believe that Mr. Skundric, when he arrives on Monday, must first give us answers to those questions for which he remained in debt from last session of the Industry Committee. So there are a number of questions that Mr. Skundric has in no way answered. I also underline that we want the director of the "Srbigas" to be present on the Committee, but this time on the side where Minister Skundric is sitting, as he was present as an MP last time. We want to get information that is related not only to this oil-gas deal, but also to the mediator, because the statement he made says that we are ready, indeed, to all, to hand over the Russian majority package. Mr. Ilic, I agree with you, you are responsible for this signing of the treaty, you signed it on behalf of the Serbian state and it has been ratified in this assembly. Responsibility has been transferred to the congregation. I completely agree that someone has decided to step down this agreement, regardless of what we were up against it, and that it all comes down to the sale of NIS. That's why we won't answer for this question again. We're pleased to schedule Monday's session, except in the case, Madam President, that you decide to work tomorrow; then it would really be appropriate for the Committee to be tomorrow, the fresh information is that we don't wait for Monday. I hope it's acceptable for you that if we work tomorrow, we also have a Committee on Industry tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9272	Yeah, absolutely, if we work tomorrow, it makes sense to be the board. If not, Monday. Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9273	Ladies and gentlemen, when we were here, against the ratification of the Agreement, we warned that NIS is being sold into depravity, for the better, as Alajbeg's straw, the answer was that everything should be watched in the package, as a whole arrangement. No one said we were selling NIS at the right price, but we're gonna get a lot with the pipeline, so we're selling NIS so cheap. Apparently, there's nothing from the pipeline, and it's clear to everyone now. You also don't know who's negotiating. The other night, in the Uttice of the Week, we heard that the Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister is the head of the negotiating team, but the chief of the negotiating team is not negotiating, but, on behalf of the government, the gas-oil agreement is being negotiated by the police minister. Where does that exist in the world? Next, what if the NIS deal is signed tonight? Then it's the Industry Committee on Monday. So, if there's no Assembly tomorrow, and you've announced that it's until 9:00 p.m., I suggest that at 18-19 p.m. be the Industry Committee. Why would it be delayed for Monday? What are you going to do if he signs tonight? This Miller guy's got a hard-on, he's here to share his bags here. Is that contrary to a ratified agreement? Yes, it is. You understand each other as much as you say it isn't, but come out and explain it for the pay phone. So, I suggest we speed up holding a session of the Committee on Industry, that the Committee on Industry take its stand and inform the Government, that tomorrow is not too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9274	You wanted to do business? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9275	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting in connection with an officer. 104, 225 and 226. I'm going to ask you to forward one of my proposals and ask for a notice. Namely, I received one letter from the citizens of Pančevo, which states that members of the Management Board of Pancevo Bank received the following amounts: Munić Snezana received 5.325.297 dinars, Kavaj Svetlan, from Belgrade, deputy chairman of the Management Board of the Privredna Banka, received 3,584,291, Pesic Nenad, member of the Executive Board, from Kovacica, received 2,965.037. Namely, members of this board of directors...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9276	Mr. Jojic, just tell me which member you're advertising, I can't tie up a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9277	I'm looking for a notice on whether this is true, Art. 225 and 226, in relation to Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9278	Please, this request has absolutely nothing to do with the agenda or the current topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9279	Please, if I don't hear from the Rules of Procedure again, I'll be done in a minute. (President: Good. ) Further, Đurić Vesna, from Belgrade, Branko Ćopić 3, received 774.800 dinars, Nenad Urosevic, from Belgrade, Duke Dobrinjc number 18, received 1,035.602 dinars, Nadica Mihajlović, Belgrade, Radlerova 22 – 774.800 dinars, Marija Pantelić, Belgrade, Vukosavljeviceva 62 – 774.800 dinars, Marija Matic, from Belgrade, 905.2019 dinar. When this is calculated, the state here is being robbed, and the majority owner in this bank is the state. These eight members, the Pancevo Business Bank, it's only the chairman of this board that received 5,325,297, but when you take that the price of corn is six dinars per kilogram, it turns out that she, that she is a farmer, and that she is not a farmer... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... could and should have paid 887,000... (President: Time. ) So, I request a notice from the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, and I propose... (President: we understand. )......................................................................................................... One more sentence, I'm sorry, I'm asking the Panchev Police Administration, of the head of this administration, to enter this bank, as well as the budgetary inspection, to determine the illegalities in receiving and robbing people's, state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9280	Mr. Kragovic, also, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please return to work on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9281	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on Article 100, in relation to the article. 225nd and 226, I'm asking for an explanation from the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense. Namely, when a crime took place in Kosovo Kamenica, in the village of Kriljevo, it is a village that has 300 Shipatarians and one Serbian house, and in that Serbian house lived Bogdanovic Stanko and Stanica, the old people, the station was immobilized, found dead, Veton Elšani, a spokesman for the Kosovo police service, said they died naturally. What is most important, many cameras, many people are interested, because they cannot access and see what actually happened in the village of Kriljevo, in the municipality of Kosovo Kamenica. Just to remind you that there are no Serb members in the Kosovo Police Service in Kosovo, just because the government of the Republic of Serbia paid those people for one time, and then stopped paying, so they lost any protection there. Despite many attempts, representatives of the Kosovo Kamenica municipality and many TV teams who wanted to record the whereabouts of the Bogdanovic family and what happened to that family, failed because the village was blocked and could not be approached. And at first I told you it was a village that had 300 Shipage houses and only had one Serbian house. So, another pure ethnic, Cypriot village in Kosovo and Metohija, because, unfortunately, the Bogdanovic family was killed. These people, who are over 70 years old, are harassing the Shiptar Separatists and terrorists and they continue their crimes. Serbia is silent, there is no answer to such crimes, no one wants to deal with it. On many occasions, I said that you left Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to deal with themselves and to manage as they know and can. You do not consider it serious that you will receive Serbian heads and Serbian bodies in Serbia. Probably the family and the two will take them, because they will not have the conditions to bury them in Kosovo's Kamenica. We continue to deal with some peripheral problems, hide from the public, hide from the Serbs that diplomatic victory of ours, the Eulex mission. We do not want to explain to the Serbs what it is that they did well in Brussels and New York, what it is that it expects. If it's... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In this case, very bad days are ahead for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9282	Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9283	Madam Chairman, thank you. I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This possibility also draws me from the constitutional powers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to oversee the government's work and the new circumstances. We asked the other day for all the appropriate assessment of the security situation in Kosovo and Metohija, given that there is an objective danger of terrorism spilling over and into the wider area, i.e. the rest of the Republic of Serbia. The answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9284	Mrs. Ragush, this is an issue that absolutely does not touch the agenda and amendments that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9285	I've reported in accordance with Article 226. So I ask for an explanation given the new circumstances in Kosovo and Metohija, if you please, I can explain it to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9286	I think you're completely off topic and you're abusing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9287	Okay. Now I'd like you to explain to me whether I have the right to ask for an explanation based on Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9288	I think you've been looking for those explanations the past few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9289	No, I didn't. You didn't let me explain this until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9290	Something new happened?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9291	Exactly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9292	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9293	Thank you. I hope you'll get my time back to square one.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9294	No, I don't. 30 seconds was a dialogue. I'll take that away from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9295	Here, I'm also reporting on the basis of Article 104. You are truly violating my dignity as a People's MP and the right and the ability to express what I am entitled to, and on the basis of Article 226. So today I received a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns my question, i.e. my doubts and requests for explanations from the Secretary-General for the Agreement signed, or between Brussels and Washington, on the participation of 80 Americans in the Eulex mission. Since we are completely unclear what the Americans are looking for in the European mission, we have voiced our suspicion that, in accordance with the truce in Iraq, the territory of KIM could be the case of a mercenaries' army known as black water. Here is what we have received in response, so the SRS Parliamentary Club: "The Agreement on Military Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and America, as well as with other countries, is concluded on principles and in accordance with the standards applicable to bilateral agreements of this kind. They're a partner character. The scope of co-operation is determined by each other. Therefore, there is no possibility of entering the territory of the Republic of Serbia of any foreign mercenaries, and thus neither their uncontrolled activity in our country. ''This, therefore, is Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a newly formed circumstance in KIM territory. Agents of the German BND Intelligence Service were present. We are now seeking the responsibility of the foreign minister for the incorrect response and for the emerging situation in the KIM territory, given that those responsible interior ministry, and we have checked this out, have not been reported as agents of the German intelligence service. Of course, I'll report back to Article 226, since I wasn't usurped by your remarks, I took advantage of everything I wanted within three minutes. Thank you, and I'm sorry for this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9296	Mr Kragovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, I request an explanation from the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the foreign ministry cabinet and the KIM cabinet. Yesterday, a session of the KIM Assembly of Communities was held in Kosovo Mitrovica, to which the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and the foreign minister, as well as the KIM minister, were called. No one found fit to attend and attend a session attended by 45 delegates from 25 municipalities, as well as 25 presidents of KIM municipalities. I am looking for an explanation -- which prevented any of the cabinets, whether the Prime Minister, or the foreign minister, or the KIM minister, from coming and explaining to the Serbian people what was done in Brussels and New York. What is it that the Serbian people expect in the upcoming period at KIM. At the session itself, following the debate of several delegates, conclusions were reached, which I would like to read to you: "The KIM Community of Communities finds that despite the 70,322 signatures of Serbs from KIM, as well as the resolution of the Serbian Parliament on the non-acceptability of Eulex, the authorities in Belgrade accept this mission, which was formed on the basis of Ahtisaari's plan. It is strange that countries like the United States and Great Britain, which are the main promoters of Kosovo's independence, have the same attitudes as the official Belgrade. The Eulex mission cannot be neutral, as in most parts of the KiM, their work will be based on the constitution of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo. The KIM Community Assembly considers a clear resolution of the Security Council, which defines Kosovo and Metohija as part of the state of Yugoslavia, i.e. Serbia, trading for the alleged neutral mission of Eulex. Third, the acceptance of EULEX by Belgrade looks like a special recognition of Kosovo's independence, and a six-point programme should ensure autonomy for Serbs, above all, in the north of KiM, and for Albanians, it is unacceptable, too. Authorities in Belgrade can hardly explain the struggle to preserve KIM in Serbia when customs are imposed under the same area. For Serbs across the KIM, UNMIK's mission is the only valid one and we expect official Belgrade, with its Western friends, to not rush the departure of this mission, because this would be devastating for the survival of Serbs. The revision of the Kumanovo Agreement is about trade, in principle – EULEX for the Land Area of Security. The real point is to abolish a decision to return to 1,000 Serb police officers and soldiers to KIM, which has never been realised so far in practice. The sixth, the KIM Community Assembly supports the KIM Ministry's decision to control funds from the government of Serbia's budget, but expects inspections to go towards the state secretary of the same ministry, Mr Oliver Ivanovic, who usurped numerous business spaces in Kosovo Mitrovica. '"
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9298	Time, Mr. Kragovic, speak 30 seconds longer, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9299	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9300	You know what, it would still be our turn to respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9302	I would just like to meet you if I had scheduled the seventh session of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for industry for 8 December 2008, starting at 11 o'clock. The agenda is – to discuss information on the negotiations of the delegations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation regarding the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy. In case of prevention, I ask the MPs to report that they will be prevented. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Keep calling, but it's really not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9303	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know what it means to throw people's MPs that something is or is not correct. This is a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. But I called in another case. I answered because you had just informed the Serbian Parliament and the public that you had violated article 77. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I will quote Article 77's 1st and 2nd position: "The Committee's session is convened by the chairman of the committee. The Chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at the request of at least a third of the total number of board members, or a third of the full composition of the Committee within the meaning of Article. 24th and 42nd of this Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly. If he does not do so within the required time limit, the committee shall convene the Vice-President of the Committee, or the President of the National Assembly." Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the conditions of the article have not been met. 24th and 42nd of this Rules of Procedure. Mr. Milorad Buha, the chairman of this committee, and I have informed the MPs, and you were present, as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in exile, scheduled a meeting of the government for this afternoon, counting that today is an unemployed day, because a man is following the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He's at the government meeting right now and normally his cell phone's off, because a man's decent and doing a serious job. Indeed, I don't see any reason why you hurried to schedule a committee session this way. Of course, we don't mind having that session scheduled, but I don't see why you have different arches for the MPs' groups. I highly appreciate all the 229 MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have no objection, on the contrary, to think that everyone has the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to use the article. 225 and 226, as well as other members of the Rules of Procedure. But the least you're expected to do, Madam President of the National Assembly, is to have the same archaic against all the MPs. You seem to mind that your LDP colleagues have spoken to the Rules of Procedure for about an hour and a half, which is their legitimate right, and I've just used three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9304	I have gained confidence that at least one third of the total number of Committee members would like this session to be scheduled. That's what we're going to argue. Also, I realized that Mr. Buha was unable to schedule that session today, so I took advantage of the law of Article 77 that I would schedule it. You can call it that, in any case, in the voting day, we can make that clear. I think, indeed, that I have met the largest number of MPs, not just members of this committee, to talk about this important topic on the body that this assembly has, which is the Committee on Industry. I think it's a very legitimate and correct way to work. But it is your right to evaluate my every statement, performance, move, in the way you think it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First of all, the word is Mrs. Marina, so Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9305	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Our work and our behaviour determines the highest legislative act of the Serbian state, which is the Constitution and Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We use it rightly, which is the use of the Rules of Procedure, not abuse. When it comes to political attitude, I think the ruling majority of the opposition is the last one to transfer inaccuracy, given that we have been insisting here for more than a month that the government will come, that we discuss it at a special session. We get the impression that for some reason, it's prolonging. Given the new circumstances, that two people were found dead in Kosovo's Kamenica, the SRS is concerned that, of course, Cypriot terrorists and what is happening in KIM territory -- that they are jeopardising the security of not only Serbian residents, the remaining Serb inhabitants of KIM, but also all other citizens who are trying to respect the Constitution's guaranteed framework. On what grounds do we raise this reasonable doubt? On the basis of the fact that we have not received any single argument from the competent minister, the competent ministries, the Prime Minister, who, beyond any doubt, would convince the opposition's MPs that the state of Serbia is implementing its laws on the territory of all Serbia. In addition to a secret piece of the German intelligence report, the other day, which I talked about the other day, and I don't want to talk about it anymore, I expect a response from the government, today received research from the US agency Stratford, which says: 'Transit heroin is the main source of Kosovo's income. Heroin from Afghanistan and Central Asia comes to the Balkans through Turkey and Kosovo and is distributed to various points in Europe. One of the main smuggling channels leads across the Italian port of Bari, where the mafia there distributes it across Europe. European authorities, which have been struggling with the Kosovo mafia for decades, are aware of Kosovo's strategic importance for smuggling. The Kosovo Mafia is brutally effective and difficult to penetrate, given the clan and family organisation of the network of smugglers. "It is finally concluded that Europeans understand this. Members of the organisation have already stepped up actions against smuggling operations within Kosovo and possible links with the Kosovo government. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this is also the secret report of the German Intelligence Service, on this, too, says the German Parliament, and we hope that you, as the first among the equal, with a special sense of justice and justice, will indeed find the mechanism, because of the threat to the direct security of all citizens and the Constitution of the set system, and here call on all those who are competent, their own, and who should therefore answer these and similar questions that threaten all of us. Thank you and forgive the overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9306	He has the word Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on one subject and the work of an institution, which is RIK, I have one hundred questions, I hope that at least 99 will allow me to be president of the Assembly, which I want to ask here. Namely, what's going on? On several occasions, I asked the government of the Republic of Serbia to give the RIK mandate, so that election actions related to local self-government in the KIM would be conducted by RIK, due to lack of courts in the KIM area. Although the government met with the desire of all local self-government and issued an order to RIK to perform the necessary actions for the work of local self-government, RIK stands as if it were an ordinary court, as if it were conducting litigation proceedings in connection with the event. Namely, what's going on? In the municipality of Leposavic, as an authorised face of the SRS, 13.10 I submitted a request for the replacement of nine SO Leposavic council members. The obligation of the president of the SO was to establish, on the basis of my documentation, the termination of the term of office of those committees, on the basis of the resignations, powers and contracts and on the basis of my authority. As President SO Leposavic did not do so, on 4 November I applied to the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica and the District Court for a ruling saying that he had suspended the mandate for those committees and that the order was given to fill the seats in SO Leposavic's new mandates. Normally, the procedure is next – that I should turn to RIK, who only had one job to do, to issue assurances for new committees, on the basis of a proposal from an authorised person or a proposal from the SRS. The proposal was submitted on 4.11, but RIK did not even want to put it on the agenda. Then I put it here, in the assembly, and I got a promise that it would be. Although I left 11.11, and today 51.2, RIK refused to put the proposal on the agenda again last night, for one reason – because President SO, allegedly sending a memo, did not stamp his memo. That document exists with me, and it exists in a court of law that passed such a verdict. In fact, it is about that verdict and a simple accompanying act, and they are now, using the will of the majority and will, doing more crimes. Most importantly, they don't respect the court's decision. Madam Minister, is it possible in this country that anyone, and especially such experienced lawyers, may not respect the court's decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9308	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9310	It's okay. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, first of all look back at your behavior. You have no reason to be nervous about the MPs of the SRS. It is not opposition parties' fault that the ruling coalition is in a hurry to bring the 2009 budget, and what is late in that, especially not the SRS. The government of the Republic of Serbia had an obligation to submit the 2009 draft budget to the National Assembly on 1 November this year. That didn't happen. They said it would be established at yesterday's Serbian government session, never happened again, you had a fight at the government. The draft budget will finally be set up tomorrow, December 6th. So you should give more criticism to the Serbian government, Prime Minister Cvetkovic and the real prime minister -- Boris Tadic, not to the MPs. It is particularly inappropriate, at the very least, to interrupt Mr Kragovic when he raises reasonable doubt that a Serbian family in Kosovo Kamenica appears to have been killed. We have been warning these days that the secrets of the Albanian terrorist group in KIM are threatening to send cut off Serb heads from KIM to Belgrade, Serbian authorities. A few days ago, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at the Orthodox cemetery in Stari Paz, the Ustasha passwords were adopted, the letter 'U', 'Serbs on willows' and 'NDH' was written. When we talked here that, by adopting the Statute of Vojvodina, you let out a bottle of the evil spirit of the defeated Austro-Hungarian monarchy and NDH, you laughed. Today, you interrupt Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic when he talks about a new wave, unfortunately, killing Serbs at KIM. So listen to what the MPs have to tell you, and the Serbian government is not doing its job – it is not the fault of the National Assembly, especially not the MPs of the opposition parties. As for the amendment submitted by Mr. Shormaz, I must first refer to what Mrs. Malovic said. It turns out that the purpose of all these laws is to bring only a mere termological change. Turns out everything will stay the way it is, except the courts will no longer be called municipal and countyal, but basic and higher. What used to be a municipal court, it will now be a judicial unit, citizens won't have to travel anywhere, judges won't have to travel anywhere, and now it turns out that the entire judicial reform in Serbia is actually being conducted due to mere weather changes. That, of course, is not so. Given the amended provisions on court jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that citizens and how they will have to travel. You, Mrs. Malovic, seem to be unaware, or knowingly keep one fact silent. Courts are not state bodies that only judge, which conduct litigation, criminal, executive, etc., courts also carry out a number of other cases. The court also has an office. The office has a whole series of notebooks. In Vojvodina, municipal courts run land books. Wills are deposited in court, court deposits, etc. Of course, citizens will have to travel because of all these things out there, in these basic courts of yours, when on the days of the court, which you announce, these things won't be able to cover themselves. How do you propose to solve, for example, the way in which land books are kept in municipal courts in Vojvodina? How do you think you can handle the question of enrollment in those books that are held in the office of every court? How do you think you can handle the deposit of the legacy that citizens write on court days? So it is clear that, on the one hand, you are collecting justice in Serbia, and how difficult it will be for citizens to come to this justice, and on the other hand, a big question will open up. You will leave a large number of judges in Serbia without work with such alleged judicial reforms. I told you the other day, if you had already wanted to reduce public spending in Serbia, then I guess you should have left the executive authority to reduce the number of ministries, to reduce the number of management bodies in their composition, to reduce the number of these famous and unfortunate agencies, which have envied Serbia in black in every respect, legal, economic, financial, political. But, no, you're going to fuck public spending by leaving thousands of judges out of work, leaving thousands of people working in the judicial administration without a job. Mrs. Malovic, you forget one fact, the state is investing in the schooling of judges. A man needs to finish law school, he needs to finish a traineeship, he needs to pass a judicial exam, he needs someone to choose him as a judge, and then he starts to do a judicial duty. Now you're going to leave thousands of such people out of work through the lustration process. Of course, you do all this because of the reason Mr Krasic put forward, you want to reduce the number of judges in Serbia because, of course, it is easier to manipulate the fewer people than the larger ones. Since you like to call on European standards and say that everything you do is because you are asked by the EU, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, here I am holding in my hands a report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress in the European integration process. It's a summary, by the way. This material was obtained by all MPs who are members of the Committee on European Integration. Otherwise, the evil languages, Mrs Malovic, say that in the original English version, which has not been delivered to the MPs, at point 2, which refers to the Serbian Parliament, it refers to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, there is one sentence that says that the Serbian Parliament is negatively assessed, among other things, and because the political party is sitting in parliament, the false MPs, who did not participate in the 11 May elections at all. As far as judicial reform is concerned, here's what it says - judicial reform is, in principle, assessed negatively; no key laws have been adopted, resulting in the absence of the appointment of holders of the most significant judicial functions. In conclusion, the report states that "significant efforts must be made to ensure Serbia's independence, accountability and efficiency of the judicial system". There has been modest progress in the field of fighting corruption, and this, above all, thanks to the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Nowhere in the European Commission report, and this report for you should probably be very important, there is no requirement for the Republic of Serbia to change the judicial network, fire judges, fire people working in the judicial administration; there is only a requirement for the judiciary to be independent, be responsible and be effective. By the laws you propose, the judiciary will be dependent on the executive authority, it will be irresponsible and, of course, it will be far more inefficient than it is now. Mrs. Malovic, I'd like to introduce you to another fact. You are the minister of justice, and if your colleagues in the Serbian government have not informed you, let me do it. Mr. Vuk Jeremic announced that Serbia will press charges against Croatia. Otherwise, he remembered that Croats committed genocide against Serbs only when the International Court of Justice ruled that he was competent to resolve Croatia's case against Serbia. However, you did not seem to be informed, Mrs. Malovic, that Mr. Tibor Varadi does not want to represent Serbia before the International Court of Justice in The Hague in case Serbia presses charges or charges. Why? It's not too bad, but it's interesting why he doesn't want it. I don't know if you know it, Mrs Malovic, from a few years ago, this same Tibor Varadi, who, to the shame of the Serbian state, represents Serbia in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, is a Croatian state arbitration officer. It has been chosen by Croatia as a state-run arbitration officer in international disputes it will eventually lead. What does that mean? In the event that Croatia has some dispute with a foreign state and in case an arbitration court is formed, Croatia, as a party to the dispute, has the right to appoint a number of arbitarians. One of those who are on the list of Croatian state arbitration is Mrs. Malovic and Tibor Varadi. Check in the “National Journals” of the Republic of Croatia, the decision of the Croatian state authorities is published to appoint Tibor Varadi, the famous law professor, as Croatian State Arbitrar. You trust such a man with the fate of Serbia and such a man, allegedly, should represent the interests of the state of Serbia and its citizens. Otherwise, another piece of information. In 1998, when Richard Holbrooke, in Belgrade, held talks with the late Slobodan Milosevic on the deployment of the OSCE mission to KiM, led by that notorious Walker, in the breaks of those talks, Richard Holbrooke did not sleep in Belgrade, he slept in Tibor Varadi's private apartment in Budapest. It's also important information. So, Mrs. Malovic, you better deal with these issues that are extremely painful for the state of Serbia; don't touch the judicial network, what you're proposing is very dangerous. As for yesterday's events in the home of General Ratko Mladic's son, here, unfortunately, you have this tragic case with KIM, take care of Serbs whose lives are once again at risk at KIM, and leave the Serbian heroes to Serbian history and the Serbian people to remember them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9312	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, I request an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does RIK exercise the mandate entrusted to him by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? In my ignorance that he is a member of RIK and a minister of justice, I address myself, hoping to receive protection from the minister of justice, however, as an expert on matters of law, as an expert on whether one request should be placed on the agenda, a request where all necessary documents have been prepared and collected. And in consultations with the people who work in the RIK service, they say everything is fully documented, but, in any case, let us get that same copy, with a accompanying letter of judgment from the Kosovo Mitrovica District Court. This is where the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. You are all-powerful to usurp power, aside from misusing the will of citizens who went to the elections in Leposavic on 11 May and giving the mandate to the SRS committees. One month you didn't want to work, you don't want to work another month, so you won't do a third month, and then you'll say, "SO Leposavic doesn't work, temporary measures," and so the "yellow company" will get the first municipality on KIM. Is that the goal, in such a way as to achieve an election result? It's a shame, it's a disgrace to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and about RIK not to talk. Is it possible that the minister of justice does not respect the court's decision? Is it possible that members of the RIK, who have over 20 years of employment, who are either lawyers or judges or respected lawyers, do not respect the court's decision, but need another seal on the signature of one president of the assembly, who broke the law because he was obliged, was obliged to, under the Law on Local Self-Government, but, at that time, at the session, on the basis of documentation which was handed to him neatly, to establish the termination of the term of office. He avoided it. The chance to protect its rights is exactly through the court and if the court makes a decision, and this court has made a decision, as has most courts in Serbia, with the exception of the Kragujevac District Court, which makes the opposite decisions. All other district courts are operating under the Law on Local Self-Government, by the Law on the Selection of Councilors, and you don't respect it either. Again, I ask the question, that the government will give me the answer as soon as possible – how does RIK exercise its will and terror over the KIM council members?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9314	The word has a People's MP, Fremond Arpad.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9315	Madam President, Madam Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the National MP of the Hungarian Coalition, I would like to support the adoption of this amendment on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities. You have heard from us these days about the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. Let me repeat more important things, since the Serbian Government has given a negative opinion on this and on all other SVM amendments. In the SVM, we believe that MPs, above all, should represent the interests of citizens and voters of those municipalities, cities and regions, thanks to which they have the opportunity to be in the National Assembly. This law in the proposed form, according to our deep conviction, is against the citizens of Vojvodina, against citizens of the entire Republic of Serbia, because it is trying to introduce something irrational. It's irrational because it suggests reducing the number of municipal courts from 138 to 34. There are only eight basic courts in Vojvodina. That is why we have submitted amendments, wanting to improve this bill and the amendments concern the introduction of a basic court in Backo Topoli, Senti and Vienna. I believe that if you would accept our proposal to streamline, that is, if you were to use it in practice, by establishing, or by surviving, another 11-12 courts on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, you would satisfy the demands of the citizens of this country. In total, you would have 44-45 basic courts, instead of 34, which would be much more acceptable. We don't want to tear down the concept of this law and we don't want to start 10 or 15 new basic courts. We want to preserve those courts, whether it's criminal courts, or basic courts, whose survival is necessary. This solution would not question the whole concept of judicial reform, which is really necessary, but rather preserve those courts whose survival has historical and geographical justification. If we are talking about historical and geographical justifications, let me briefly draw your attention to the village of Pacir in the municipality of Backo Topol, from which I come. I'll try to show you how centralization of the state affects and doesn't take care of small, rural environments. In fact, the Pachir next year celebrates the 600th anniversary of its existence, and as things stand, unfortunately, its 700th anniversary may not have anyone to celebrate. If we look back, 70 years ago, Patchir had two stripes: Subotica-Vinkovci and Subotica-Redka-Ojaci. In those years, Pacir had about 5,000 inhabitants, craftsmen's shops that were also manufactured for export, mills for the processing of cereals, two workshops for the production of soda, two milk processing cooperatives and an alcohol processing plant. Further development continues and after World War II, a brick was built, then plants for painting textile goods, production of barrels, brooms, a construction company, a agricultural cooperative. At the time, there was a gas station, a police station, a military department, a tax administration, more craftsmen's workshops. I have to draw attention to you that at that time the Patchir was a special municipality and until then everything was fine. When he became part of the Old Moravica municipality, things began to change. It got worse and worse when we became part of Bačka Topol's municipality. In the last 30 years alone, all factories and plants have been shut down in Patchir, well, even more private craft stores. Today Pachir doesn't have a gas station, no railway station, no cinema hall, his building of the school, which the citizens of Pachir built of their money. It's all privatized today or in state hands. To this day, only a few mixed goods shops, a private construction firm and agricultural cooperatives that are privatized are working in the village. If we look at short history, we come to the conclusion that Serbia was a much more decentralised state 50 years ago than today. Today, order came to medium and smaller towns and municipalities in Serbia. Slowly, by centralization, we also destroy our smaller municipalities. There's no decentralisation, just centralization continuing. What a city without a court, no police, no most important institutions, no military department, etc.? Today, section or department, tomorrow, nothing. Of course, we can hardly stop it, but at least we can fight against the centralization of this country and point to a bad thinking system. When the municipalities and the city are abolished, the cities lose features by which they can objectively be called urban environments. In my opinion, that's very bad. Furthermore, I want to make arguments against this draft law concerning the use of the language of national minorities in court proceedings. The remaining of these courts is a guarantee of use in the official use of the language of national minorities. By abolishing these courts, the use of the language of national minorities in all these court proceedings is at stake. That's inadmissible. We cannot say whether the right is used through a court interpreter or directly, and we know that the right to use language is guaranteed by the Constitution and the 1991 Law on official use of language. Finally, I want to repeat, if our other amendments and this amendment are not supported, we will not be able to vote in favour of this law, because we will not vote against citizens and against voters from the territory of the municipalities from which we come. I think we have good arguments. I've only talked about some, and we'll talk about it for the next few days. We want to convince the representatives of the Ministry of Justice that these amendments are good and that by adopting them, we can achieve that this law on the seat of courts and public prosecutors is even better, that citizens are made even more available to justice in court, and that citizens who are members of the national communities are guaranteed the official use of their language, that we do not have a reduction of the standards achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9316	Thank you, Mr. Fremond. The word is Mr. Kragovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request, on the basis of Article 100, and for the sake of Article 100. 225 and 226, an explanation from the Minister of Justice how to protect my rights. Namely, I submitted a request to RIK on November 4th and 11th to address the problem of complete parliamentary seats in SO Leposavic. I didn't get any answers at the first rejection, and now, in an hour, it expires 48 hours. I didn't get any answers to their decision either. I would like to receive the agreement, so that I can continue to use my rights, which is to file a criminal complaint against Sonja Brkic, the president of RIK, because of the upheaval, because of the lack of work, because of the lack of respect for the court's decision and, with pleasure, against Minister Snezana Malovic, because she does not respect the court's decision and does not want to do her job, and they only have an obligation, on the basis of certain documents, to respect the election will since 11 May 2008. So again, I ask – how can I exercise my rights if RIK is deaf and dumb about all these questions and doesn't give me any answers? If I got any answers, then I could represent my rights to the court. This is how I'm in a mess and it's just passing the time. Another month will pass, and then the justice minister will tell the local self-government minister, where three months passed, no assembly session held. By the law of local self-government, you will respond immediately, on the same day, the same minute, the same second. A temporary measure is being introduced, a representative of the "yellow company" and a new local government are being brought in, and then, in a few months or a few years, we will call the elections, to see the will of the people, because this previous government was incompetent, because it did not have the support of RIK to issue 9 credentials about filling 9 vacant seats in SO Leposavic. I ask you again, both as Minister of Justice and as a member of RIK – when will you sit down and provide me with an answer to what I asked for since 4 November, so that I can protect myself, as an authorised person, and not by training the SRS, to take all the actions to protect all those voters who gave voice to the SRS? So once again, I ask you to tell the members, the secretary, or that scribe, to make that decision and to deliver it as soon as possible to whoever has filed a request to fill the council seats, or to me, as an authorised person in front of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9318	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9319	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very bad proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, and in addition to that, the fact that more than 120 amendments have been submitted to this law. What's interesting is that over 30 amendments have been submitted by MPs of the ruling coalition, and that clearly says that something is wrong with this bill. Of course, it is not right when from 138 existing municipal courts in Serbia, the establishment of 34 basic courts is planned, while 104 municipalities in the Republic of Serbia are left without municipal courts, i.e. some judicial units, for which it is still unclear how they will function, whether there will be some judicial days or some other way. This will be determined by some other acts of these courts. I think that this is a very bad message to the citizens of Serbia, and I think that this is how some areas in the Republic of Serbia, or 104 municipalities in Serbia, declare less significant areas than others. This caused a certain disturbance, both for citizens and for the professional public, and I think it also gives a bad message to investors who plan to invest funds, or have already invested funds in certain environments. Because what they have to think about is these environments when the state doesn't take care of them and lifts them from one of the most important state institutions, which, of course, are municipal courts. The proposer's explanation that this is how rationalization is done, costs are reduced, and that these courts will work more efficiently, is completely incorrect. I think, on the contrary, that the costs will increase, given that the judges will travel from city to city, from municipality to municipality. The cost of these trips is increased, both by judges, by court, by interpreters and by other persons who will perform their duties. If there are judges who are unwittingly working, or unsuspectingly doing so, it is regulated in another way, supervised, controlled by their work, and not abolished by courts to make them more efficient. I don't think that argument stands. Since I come from the Municipality of Chatin, the Zlatibor County, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of this Law. Namely, in Article 3 of the proposed law, point 25 stands – The basic court in Požega, for the territory of the municipalities of Arile, Ivanzica, Kosjerić and Požega, with judicial units in Aril, Ivanjica and Kosjerić. Point 26 – The basic court in Prijepolje, for the territory of the municipalities of Nova Varoš, Priboj and Prijepolje, with judicial units in Nova Varosha and Priboj. Point 32 – The basic court in Užica, for the territory of the municipalities of Bajina Basta, Čajetina and for the town of Užice, with judicial units in Baja Basta and Chajetina. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which I have predicted to delete points 25. 26th and 32nd, it reads: "The Municipal Court in Požega, Municipality Court in Aril, Municipality Court in Koserić, Municipality Court in Novi Varoša, Municipality Court in Priboj, Municipality Court in Užica, Municipality Court in Baja Basta, Municipal Court in Čatitina." This means that all nine municipal courts remain in the territory of the Zlatibor district, not to remove six courts, to abolish municipal courts in six municipalities. I come from the Čajetin municipality, a municipality that is extremely territorially large, has 647 square kilometers, 21 meat communities, it is a mountain-mounted area, a border municipality with Republika Srpska, so I think it is inadmissible to abolish municipal courts, i.e. to abolish the Municipal Court in Chatitina. It's a divisive area. Some villages are located from the administrative center and 30-40 kilometers away, such as Jablanica, Ljubliš, Gostilje, Sirogojno, Dobroselica, and I think that these citizens will be greatly difficult to exercise their rights before the court if the basic court is in Užica. Also, there are more than 25,000 guests in the territory of the municipality of Čajetina, which is the most visited tourist site in Serbia and during certain periods of the year, so we have another small town on the territory, and that should be an argument for the court's failure. The Minister said that nothing will change and that citizens will not travel further if they have their own judicial unit. That's just not true. In its opening statement, it was said that these court registers would be in the headquarters of the primary courts, not in the judicial units. I must point out that in the Community Court of Cheetah, more than 3,500 over the purchase contracts of various immovable property and land are to be carried out annually, so that all these people will be forced, if this law is passed as proposed, to go to Užice, to the Court of First Instance, to verify those contracts, because these court records will be in Užica. A similar situation is also in Novi Varosha, Priboj, Baja Basta, Arilj, Koserić. Nova Varosh is also a mountain-mounted area; Priboj, Bajina Basta, a border municipality. I think, of course, it is better to accept these amendments of ours and to retain the existing organisation of courts, i.e.. to remain all 138 courts in Serbia. This government has been talking about even regional development since the beginning of its work. Of course, we all advocate a balanced regional development, but we in the Zlatibor County feel something quite different. Since this government's arrival, the concession for the construction of the Horgos-Požega road has been annulled. We are now being suspended from municipal courts in six municipalities in the territory of the Zlatibor County. Really, I don't know what's next that we in the Zlatibor County are supposed to expect from this government. I would ask that in this way they no longer perform even regional development. I urge you to accept the amendments that we, the MPs of the DSS and other parliamentary groups, have submitted, to remain the organisation of the courts as it has been so far, because it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9320	Thank you. Mr Milan M. Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9321	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens and representatives of the government, we have before us a law on a network of courts that, following a discussion so far, in this Parliament and beyond, did not deserve to be found in the debate. According to the promoter, this law should lead to rationalisation, savings, or reduction of the number of courts, all to facilitate and to their satisfaction. Based on the amendments that have come to this law, which is about 124 amendments, if we analyze them, we'll see that 80% of the amendments that require it to remain an existing state. That means that the current state is better than what was proposed. I support my colleague Arsen Gjuric's amendment. I come from the territory of Aryl, and I would look back in a few words at the General Court in Požega. The basic court in Požega is scheduled for Ivanjica, Arilje and Kosjerić. That's four municipalities. But there's a big space. If we look at the long axis, it is from Valjev to Novi Pazar, Kosjerić, Ivanjica, from Divčibar to Golija and Javor. We say the citizens won't travel, then the judges will travel. Judges are elected for basic courts and, as explained here, they will receive independent, impartially, schedules to go to other courts, or other areas. We said that small courts are subject to corruption, because people know each other. All I can say is that Ariel is a small place, or a small court. However, according to indicators worthy of the ministry of justice, the Ariel court is one of the better. Therefore, this reconstruction of the Courts won't give the citizens of Ariel anything. This court, which now works, works properly. How will the judge who lives in Koserić get a warrant to go to trial in Javor or Golia, it's about 200 km away? By the time he leaves and comes back, it's all day, or vice versa. Therefore, I suggest that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. The conditions have not yet been met, or conditions for this network to be applied. If we are ordered from Europe and asked to do these things, we do not have such preconditions as in Europe, so when the time comes, when we have them, we will deal with a new network of courts. Thank you and pleasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9322	First Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9323	These are local patriotic amendments, because the government has forced us to defend these amendments, and the MPs who write them write them, because they simply can't stand the pressure of the environment. The court, the court building, the people who work in that building, represent something recognizable in that place, and I am not surprised by these amendments, because they aim to preserve something that has acquired positions. Is that justified? I think it's justifiable. Is that supposed to be rationalized in some way? Perhaps, it may be necessary to do so, but with well-known criteria and criteria. This amendment concerns municipalities from the Zlatibor County. Since it's almost the same as when it comes to amendments to the organisation of courts in another county, I'm not gonna stick to those details, but I'd move on, because I have no intention of repeating my presentations, to present you with a hypothetical one situation. Since it is already known that there will be a new election, i.e. re-election and lustration, that there will be a reduction in the number of courts, the number of judges, in this new competition that needs to implement the zero composition of the High Council of the Court and the State Council of Prosecutors, we will have a situation to say, for example, for one basic court, I would say, the omnibus court, which now sublimes a number of municipal courts, will be called a competition, that candidates who, for example, work in some municipal court that is shutting down, who may become a judicial unit. Then there is, really, a problem – what will be applied as a criterion in the election? Will one of the criteria be the candidate's residence? So that might not be complicated, I'll take a concrete example. The municipality court of Požega is deleted, so the basic court in Požega is foreseen for the territory of the municipalities of Arlje, Ivanjica, Kosjerić and Požega, with judicial units in Aril, Ivanjica, Kosjerić. I'll take an example of Ariel, it'll become a judicial unit now, I don't know, but 30 kilometers is, I guess, between them. You've called a contest for the General Court in Požega. The candidates are reporting. You have to send one of the selected candidates to work at the Ariel Court Unit. What will be the criterion of the election? Do those who are already working, now, at the Court of Municipality of Ariel, have the advantage as candidates for the future basic court in Požega? If they have the advantage, then what are the criteria? On what criteria do you choose judges? Professionality, dignity, etc. What if you theoretically get into a situation where none of the selected candidates have a residence in Ariel? What happens if you pick a candidate just because he's from Ariel? For days, we've been hearing that one of the reasons why courts are being shut down and somewhere becomes the judicial units of another fundamental court is the high degree of corruption, because it's a small environment, the possibility of affecting court decisions, etc. This example shows that this is, practically, inapplicable in a way that could be said to be objective. These are, in addition to those problems I've been telling you about for days, new problems for which you won't be able to find an answer. Now I'm speaking hypothetically, if I didn't doubt the will, the ability and the intentions of that zero composition of the High Council of the judiciary. But since there will also be a minister of justice, the chairman of the Justice Committee, the President of the Supreme Court, that is, by position, the composition, then you can conclude that this choice, which is said to be high-quality, professional, objective, will be the most ordinary volunteering. In order not to receive any warning, I, Mrs Malovic, will hand over the complete documentation. A few days ago, 15 days ago, I was running some data, data I really had in my possession, and Mr. Micunovic threw it out of my sight to lie to me. I've collected this file, which I've read before, so I'm giving it to you and I'm drawing attention to certain parts, so if what you're reading here is the position of the judiciary, then I'm asking you to apply these views objectively in all court cases. That's one thing. Since I have some bad luck, I announce state terrorism, and the next day they break into a man's house. Here, I'm a little late now. Now I'm letting you know what happened. You see, Radovan Karadzic in Belgrade is bothering, so it happened that a man entered the bookshop "Nikola Pasic" and simply knocked down his statue that was made of casts; what he couldn't reach from the bronze. Let me remind you, that bronze statue was exhibited in 2006 as an exhibit at the UN headquarters in New York. So if that bronze statue could have been in New York, the UN, as the artistic work of one of our famous Serbian vair, then have respect for the replicas, so be it from the cast. That gypsum was taken down by someone. Speaking of which, I would recommend that you visit her and ask, Ms. Slavica Đukić, if you are able, these are very cheap books, to provide for all MPs of the National Assembly by a copy of these books. You could also supply some state institutions with these books. They are needed, above all, by Foreign Minister Jeremic and those representing Serbia before the International Court of Justice. One book by Mirjana Angelković Lukic is "The Gifts of a Merciful Angel", referring to objects, property and everything that the atrocities of NATO did in 1999, and I would recommend the book of Branimir Stanojevic, of course, in the publication of the bookshop "Nikola Pasic" – "A Merciful Angel or Book of the Dead", with lists of all victims of NATO in 1999, but absolutely all. All victims, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of religion, nation and any other property. I would ask you that, if you do not mind the bust of Radovan Karadzic in the UN, make sure that your performances in the National Assembly, including in the written media, do not encourage this kind of antagonism, which today unfortunately escalated by someone, and probably being planted by the BIA, entered the bookstore, broke, broke that gypsum statue, probably showing in such a way, among other things, and anger at what Vojislav Seselj is doing extremely well in The Hague tribunal. I am glad we have good communication with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are monitoring these transfers. At the same time, I must inform you that in a few days, the SRS website will also be dedicated to fighting corruption and crime in the Republic of Serbia. On that site, there will be complete correspondence, that is, everything that competent institutions, citizens and all those who support the SRS deliver to us in this fight against crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9324	Mr. Mico Rogovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9325	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I am reporting on Mr Arsen Đurić's amendment, that the story concerning this set of amendments and the law of the judiciary of previous speakers, Mr Nikolic, Mr Peric and Mr Arsen Đurić, and the other day Kenan Hajdarevic, about the situation in the judiciary, i.e. on municipal courts, law enforcement authorities, prosecutors in the Zlatibor region, I try to draw closer to the truth, understanding and the proposal to withdraw this set of laws from circulation. Madam President, first of all, I must, on behalf of Parliament and on my own behalf, apologize to you for the other day for the use of the geographical term "Prepolje", by a fellow MP and to remind you that such a geographical term does not exist. So, at 310 km, on the M-21 Master's Road, Belgrade-Bar, there is the municipality of Prepolje, in the border belt between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, of course, in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. I am saying this because of all the citizens of the region, because of all the historians, geographers and people who are engaged in Serbian, who are amazed by the use of the concept of "Prepolje" for a congregation speaker. It's just to remind those who learned geography or long ago, or some things from geography forgot. Madam Minister, I still, on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of all the employees in the judiciary and on behalf of all the people who are interested in this set of laws, I expect you to still have the chance to withdraw this set of laws from the judiciary, in the end of the day, that the President of the Republic withdraws them. Members of all parties, in previous days, and today, regardless of whether or not they were in a position, whether they were in opposition, have given a sufficient number of arguments that all their objections should find their true destination. I'm just gonna hang up a little bit, I need a concentration for all this, and I thank you for giving your fellow MPs a heads-up. I will refer to the situation that followed the adoption of this law, which is that there was no serious debate, especially the debate of people who are in charge of thinking the most, and they are doing exactly, in the judiciary. So, a lack of quality public debate probably caused this number of amendments and the whole situation and the objections coming from the territories that we come from. Then, the lack of clear criteria and relevant facts to address the reasons for the abolition of certain municipal and remaining or the formation of other, now basic courts. The next thing, or the next question to you, Madam Minister, is in what law is the number of judges working in the justice system according to the systematization of jobs? I would like to remind you that other countries' judicial systems do not know the systematization of jobs in which, for example, the number of judges, five, six or more, should work in a certain municipal court and that there is a situation in the judiciary of those countries that in municipal, or basic courts there may be a number of judicial perpetrators, let's say, two judges can work in a particular court. Then, the situation that Mr. and colleague Kenan Hajdarevic and Arsen Đurić mentioned, concerning the Zlatibor County, is that border belts and cities in them, with their own or problem, or fortunately in that belt, have additional frequency and people, and traffic goods, and traffic, and shops, but probably also illicit shops. Do you think in these courts, in particular, in the Zlatibor County, the number of basic, or municipal courts, from 10, should be reduced to four? Such a situation is also in northern Serbia, and in other areas located in border areas with some other republics, i.e. States. Madam Minister, do you think the multiethnicity of these parts should not be an advantage rather than a problem related to the Zlatibor County, i.e. The suburban municipalities of Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš, Cajetina, Kosjerić and Bajina Basta? Shouldn't multiethnicity, with this problem of the judiciary, be an incentive for people to continue their lives in these areas, their existence, not to happen, with circumstances, as I have just mentioned, in border areas and various judicial situations, for law enforcement authorities, for public prosecutors, that because of some problem which, apparently, could arise in such territory, related to the violation of certain rules and regulations, there should be a waiting for a judge from the next city to come in a few hours? Another thing, important for this region, is that it is indeed rural, but according to the number of tourists, it is the first on Serbia's tourist map, i.e. by the number of nights and accommodation facilities. The Goldibor County, indeed, should be proud of it. But, as Mr. and colleague Djuric said, what is next that we in the Zlatibor County should expect from this government, especially these four municipalities, from Borova Glava, which I said in some previous exhibition that if the government, or the government of Serbia, continues, these regions can, literally, become reservations of the Republic of Serbia? I thank you, and I hope you understand. It was really difficult, but I hope that people who are following the Serbian Parliament heard my presentation, regardless of what is extremely difficult in this climate to speak for the assembly speaker. (All the time the speech of MP Mic Rogovic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9326	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9327	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which reads: "After point 25, a new point 26 is added, which reads: The basic court in Priboj, for the territory of the Municipality of Priboj". The 26th point so far becomes point 27, and it is changed to say: "The basic court in Prepolje, for the territory of the municipalities of Nova Varoš and Prepolje, with a judicial unit in Nova Varoša". At first, I would like to pay great respects to Mrs Malovic, who has been sitting here for days and listening to us MPs who have submitted a large number of amendments to this bill. We of the LDP think that, besides you, Mrs Malovic, it is necessary here to be some other ministers, or their secretaries, or assistants, because you have heard a large number of arguments that are not in the jurisdiction of your ministry, but which is necessary to resolve, because we believe that judicial reform is only one part of the reform of society. So don't be angry with the MPs because they submit these amendments, because citizens of small communities, like the Municipality of Priboj, are angry because this government, and some previous governments, only remember these small places when it comes to changing, reducing and taking, and there are a very large number of problems that are not solved in these cities, or in these municipalities. I'm just going to make an example, for example, that the average salary in the Municipality of Prboj is 60% of the average salary at the level of the Republic of Serbia, that is, that a large number of working citizens, and that number is barely 4,000, receives the salary that is paid, we heard the other day, a civilian at a medical center, or 13-14 thousand dinars. When these people hear that their city is only mentioned in that sense, they're very angry. I'll also tell you some more facts of political nature, and then I'll go back to the reasons why it is necessary to remain a primary, or municipal court in the area of the Municipality of Priboj. These reasons, as I said, are that there are only 4,000 employees on the territory of the Municipality of Preboj, that there are as many as 6,000 pensioners and more than 7,000 unemployed people. Also, the municipality of Priboj has left more than 7,000 people since 1991, which is about 20% of the population, according to the 1991 census. It should also be noted that the relationship between the previous governments and the municipality of Priboj, at least as regards NIP funds, was really embarrassing. Also, there is great dissatisfaction in Priboj when it comes to the engagement of the Serbian government to privatise the Car Factory, which has so far been only in terms of election campaigns and pre-election promises. The FAP is being undermined and forgotten, and the government's attitude towards it best says that the assistance of the Serbian government FAP is 100 times less than that of the flag in Kragujevac, i.e. that the Serbian government privatised the flag in Kragujevac, among other things, and with its capital, around 200m euros, gave more favourable conditions to the Fiat without doing any of that for the privatisation of FAP. Also, when it comes to the social programme, i.e. the provision of surplus employees in FAP itself, FAP workers are offered 100 euros per year of work experience, while zastava workers have been offered 300 euros per year of work experience. This shows the maternal relationship that the Serbian government has towards FAP. The LDP believes that the citizens of Priboj and the citizens of other small communities in Serbia are not the biggest culprits for the situation in which they are located, that much greater political and government culprits are in some earlier and present composition and that it is necessary that this government, too, solves the problem of the small environments. As far as the Municipality's Court of Justice is concerned in Priboj, we believe that the existence of that court based in Priboj is very important, because the municipality of Priboj is a border environment, a border municipality, as I used to say, at the border with BiH and Montenegro, i.e. with countries that are in the transition process, as well as Serbia, so there is therefore an increase in some degree of crime which is characteristic of such a type of border, exceedingly in the illicit crossing of the border, forging travel and other documents. We believe that, right now, a court on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, that is, on the territory of all these border posts, is necessary to reduce that crime rate. We also have in mind the EU's interest that the borders of the Western Balkans will not be permeable, especially for trafficking in white slaves. We also find it difficult to imagine that it is more rational for the state to, for example, in the night hours, when the border police bring in a foreign citizen, it is 30 or 40 km from the border, not 3 km from the border itself. Then, if, for example, three municipalities are expected to exist in the territory of one basic court, i.e. The basic court on the territory of the municipality of Prepolje, for the municipalities of Priboj, Prepolje and Nova Varoš, we are afraid this would help reduce efficiency in civil litigation, which are very important for each environment. I'm just going to point out that the Municipality court in Priboj began to run a huge number of so-called numbers amongst the first ones. Transitional objects, i.e. the cancellation of the labour contract and the unpaid earnings, which, after family disputes, is one of the most important disputes that encroach on human destiny. Also, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the Court of Justice in Priboj has been at the top for a number of years at an up-to-date level. Just a few years ago, in civil matter he was among the three best courts in Serbia, it was officially published in the Supreme Court Bilten. When it comes to the urgency of the matter of judicial executions, the court in Priboj has been unhindered in the top of the district for the last few years. From all of this, we believe it is necessary for this municipal court, or primary court, to remain in the territory of the Municipality of Pryboy, and it is necessary, Madam Minister, if you can in any way, to withdraw this law and to reconsider the network of these courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9328	Thank you. Mr. Kragovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 100, and based on Art. In 225 and 226, I demand an explanation, first of all, from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, a number of days ago, when I was talking about the problem of RIK's ineffectiveness, you promised me from there that RIK would have to process the case and make any decision on it. This is what is only possible, which is to assign mandates that have been vacant in local self-government at SO Leposavic. I have asked another question, and it concerns the Republic Secretariat of Law. Namely, I ask their opinion whether the accompanying act requires a seal, if the act is orderly, signed, stamped. I would ask the Republic Secretariat for legislation to deliver that opinion to the minister of justice because it does not know whether the seal is necessary, as well as to the president of RIK, Mrs Sonja Brkic, because she does not know whether the accompanying act must be stamped or not. I have to admit, I don't know myself either. I'm not an expert lawyer. I request the opinion of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives, is it necessary to seal the accompanying act, if it is written, signed and if it contains all that is necessary? I would also ask the third question, Minister of Local Self-Government – how does local self-government in the municipality of Leposavic operate if the term of office, after the court's decision, was dropped, on 29 October 2008, not to list them, and some committees are in office, such as the Deputy President of the Assembly, the President of the Assembly, etc., and perhaps some of the directors of municipal enterprises? Is this court decision respected in local self-government in the municipality of Leposavic? What is most important is I ask that the RIK session be scheduled urgently and that a decision be made, so that local self-government in Leposavic can function. You know there's a lot of obligations, that this is December, when many documents have to be adopted so local self-government can work, because otherwise we'll get into a situation that's impossible for the current composition to do anything. If RIK were to meet tomorrow, it would be time for the new committees to participate in the work of local self-government, and thus bring all necessary acts needed to ensure that the local self-government function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9330	Mrs. Radeta, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say a few important things about the amendment, in support of my colleague Hajdarevic's amendment, I have a few things to ask, specifically, you, Madam President of the National Assembly. Today, about 12 hours, I asked, I don't know how you communicate with the services, with the secretary or his deputy, who was already there – that as soon as you show up, if you come today, so I said, in Parliament, and you have come, let us know if you will do something about the appointment of RIK when it comes to parliamentary mandates in SO Leposavic. Why did I come to you? Because, and yesterday, I spoke about it in detail, last week, when counterpart Kragovic presented the problem, he said the RIK session would be scheduled this week. It's true, it was scheduled, but unfortunately, no appropriate decision was made. Yesterday I told you, in fact, I told the people's MPs and the public of Serbia that the decision was not made because it was obvious that an agreement was made between the DS and the SPS. This was illustrated by the fact that the members of the Commission -- the secretary of the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Odalovic, and the minister, Mrs. Malovic, who kept saying here that she did not attend the session, which is absolutely not justified. She attended the session. I allow myself to suspect that she was deliberately released when the debate was being held, that as a minister, she would not protect the district court's judicial verdict in Kosovo Mitrovica. I then said that against the verification of these parliamentary mandates from the SRS list in the municipality of Leposavic, Veljko Odalovic voted. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, said that was not true. After checking, I found that the vote was 7:7 and Veljko Odalovic did not vote. It was he, however, who ruled that these mandates should not be returned, i.e. not to verify the mandates of the council members at SO Leposavic. You are today, and also last night, but not to go back to what was last night, and last night you were in a very ugly, and above all in a non-business way, interrupted Parliament's session, because you didn't like the SRS MPs speaking in the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, as was the topic of what was happening at the house of Darka Mladic, the raid by police at the house of Darka Mladic, the harassment of his family. Today, LDP lawmakers spoke of some of the things they consider important for their political action. As far as the SRS MPs are concerned, we have no problem here. All MPs, all 229 MPs, can say everything they think they should say and give all messages to Serbian citizens, to their voters. This is not to be misread, no objection to what LDP colleagues said what they thought was supposed to be said. In order to end this further notification by the Rules of Procedure, it is again contrary to Article 77. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have scheduled a session of the Committee on Industry, and the conditions laid down in Article 77 are not met. So nothing burns. Mr. Buha will be here when he finishes dealings with the Republika Srpska government in persecution, because he is the president of the government. In time, I, or all the MPs, informed you of this, so that no question would be asked where was Mr. Bhuha. So, both you and the representatives of the assembly majority show yesterday, and today, and these days, some completely unnecessary anxiety, you try in every way to speed up this Parliament's work and then you don't mind, all of a sudden, letting someone who isn't a national MP speak from this place for ten minutes. If you are in a hurry, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, then make sure that every minute in this House is used in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as SRS MPs always do on every occasion. Today, when I spoke of one of the amendments, as I spoke several times, the amendments are essentially the same, of course, all concerning different courts, i.e. the territories of the courts, I said the essence of the fact that most of the MPs in this House, or rather, most of the parliamentary groups in this House, have expressed their position on this bill through amendments. It is obvious that in this House, at least when spoken from this place, there is no will and there is no necessary majority to vote on this law. It would be good if Mrs. Minister would show a little more hearing about what we're saying here. These days we have praised Mrs Malovic for sitting here, which is still valid, listening neatly, or perhaps not listening, in any case she is in Parliament, and that is what should be an example to all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But, Mrs. Malovic, you'd have to pay a little attention to the essence of what we're saying here. I want, first of all, because of the public, the citizens of Serbia and because of those people's MPs who speak here and advocate their amendments, to ask them, all those colleagues who have submitted to the amendments, to stay in their position and, indeed, in the day of voting do not vote for this law, if they have already submitted amendments and if they have represented their fellow citizens here as someone who is fighting for their rights. Dear citizens of Serbia, if this terrible law, which will cause chaos in Serbia's judiciary, is voted in the voting day, then take care of who your representatives are. Now I tell you in advance, if that happens, then it means that your representatives, your MPs, who promise you in the field, will be forced to remain courts in all the small areas that the Ministry and the assembly majority want to abolish, cheat. I'm sorry to say that. Perhaps you will deny me, and that would be best, because if indeed all those who have said here that they will not vote for the law unless their amendment is passed, and we have reached 47 amendments that have not been adopted, then that means that this law does not have a majority. If so, then there is really a logical question – why are we wasting our time convincing the government of something that obviously has no passing in this House? Whether the government is distracting us, or some MPs from the congregation's majority are distracting their fellow citizens, their constituents, we will find out in the day to vote. But whenever I talk about any amendment, every time I remind the citizens of those environments to make sure their MPs don't want the courts in those small areas to be lifted. When it comes to the amendment of counterpart Hajdarevic, I hope to be able to say within 15 minutes, because I promised today that, first of all, for the sake of the public, I will tell you how the Government of the Republic of Serbia has gone over these amendments. In fact, it's obvious that no one has even looked at them, and this is evident from the reasons why the amendments are not accepted. Hejdarevic said in his explanation of his amendment – I suggest that a separate basic court in Priboj be included in the network, given the geographical, economic, multinational, multi-confessional, language and other social specificities of the Municipality of Priboj. "Attack is a multinational environment, in which two of the most numerous people in Sandzak live in a significant number. This is why it is important that institutional mechanisms for the integration of the two communities and the building of institutions that represent a chance for a better and better common life for all citizens are developed in this municipality. In addition, due to the specific situation, the border municipalities, there are particularly important and justified reasons for special judicial institutions, including a special basic court, to be placed in this city. ''The explanation is absolutely in line with the amendment. The only thing we would change in this explanation is that instead of Sandzak, we would say - Raška area, but essentially, the explanation of the amendment corresponds to the state of things on the ground. It is true that Priboj is a multinational environment and that we, the MPs representing the majority, Serbian people in the state of Serbia, would also have to take care of this specificity, not only in Priboj, but in all multinational environments. We are the ones who must ensure that all citizens of Serbia apply the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees human and minority rights. The correct fact is that it is close to the borders with Montenegro, with Republika Srpska and that, especially as I say, young borders, these are more of a problem and need for both the existence and the court for violations and the municipal court. It is amazing that the government of the Republic of Serbia says this amendment does not accept. It is said that the government does not accept the amendment for the reasons set out for not accepting the amendment of MP Radović Milice to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Then I went back, went back, because every time it was written like that, and suddenly it appeared that the government did not accept the amendment for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments of MP Milos Aligrudic. Then, I came to this reasoning on the amendment to Milice Radovic, where it is said – the government does not accept the amendment for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments of MP Radovic Milice. This is also her amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. In addition, the proposed amendment uses the term'municipatory court', which does not comply with the draft law on the regulation of courts, which provides for the existence of basic courts. Madam Minister, how could you write that this is not in accordance with the law? Where is it in legal practice, where is it in our legal system and where are basic courts? In the bill of law. Well, wait for the proposal to be adopted, and then you say it's something that's in legal traffic. I apologize, these 15 minutes have elapsed, but very soon, on one of the amendments, I will continue and come to an explanation for the amendment of Milos Aligrudic, so you will see how illogical it is in the government's explanation and how much, in fact, the government has not even looked at our amendments and how much, respected citizens of Serbia, the government does not care about your interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9332	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9333	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think the public in Serbia knows much better how justice should be arranged than some MPs. Because, according to the Rules of Procedure, I don't think anyone should be able to bring a laptop into the National Assembly. We don't know if it's an information center, whether it's a locator, whether it's some satellite connection to the Pentagon, to the CIA, or whether it's simply a means of telling, to get a direct hearing of what's going on in the National Assembly, and it's possible that it's a means of communication, in order to get its own opinion. But these amendments are really interesting because they allow the public to see what kind of arrangement and organisation of courts in the Republic of Serbia is directed by the DS. I have to draw attention to you that when you do something DS, you have to be careful – you have to search everything nice and see what happens down there, what happens down there, that's the main thing. I'm going to do something called international standards. These standards have been prescribed by the United Nations for 20 and a few years, because when the UN realized it could not fight for the protection of human rights, which became some new UN function twenty and a few years ago, they concluded that they should prescribe principles that should guarantee independence and independence of the judiciary. Because, the UN's main members, the permanent members of the Security Council and the most significant state, by any standard, had a formal-legal guaranteed judiciary, but the organisation, the regulation and the minimum principles that should guarantee respect for human rights were very different, so there was a need, I think, that was done in Rome, to make standards. They have become quite binding for all UN member states. The first standard is to guarantee independence and independence. It was placed there at the will of the states to do so by constitution, as the most significant legal act, but it is no problem even if it is done by law. They did it because they were aware that it was hard for some states to change their constitutions, to install this. Because there are some countries that don't change the constitutions for 70-80 years, unlike those of us who change how the ruler changes, in the Republic, of course, because we're the Republic and we're not the monarchy. That's how it worked. A standard has been created. This standard that we have, I must say, and 30 and a few years ago, has been upgraded in the meantime, regardless of whether the judges elected municipal congregations, or later, since 1991, the National Assembly – but that standard has been preserved. We now have one intervention in the organization and arrangement of courts that significantly violates these standards that we have applied and which have become part of our legal tradition. What does this look like to me -- this DS operation? This DS operation looks like something we had a chance to see in 1993, in two attempts, at the UN Security Council. One attempt was February, and the other ended in May 1993. Pay attention to the date on which it was completed, it was May 25, Youth Day, 1993. One resolution was reached and, formally-lawfully, the resolution was established by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, based in The Hague. The UN tribunal's statute was also an integral part of the resolution. This has been criticised by 78 respected international law professors, as the international court is formed by an international contract, and under certain conditions, it is also possible at the UN General Assembly. The Security Council, whose responsibility is only to preserve peace, has no right to do so, and that authority, and now I'm giving it little credit, to act as a legislative body, so that it brings general acts of such nature, especially in that area where independence and independence of the judiciary and judicial functions are guaranteed. That's what Butros Galli said, at the time, the secretary general. Of course, he couldn't make it up, but he had to use the services of 10 countries that were asked for an advisory opinion on what to do, how to do it. However, in his report, he found a great lack of legitimacy and the legality of such a court, and then they found the formula to be the auxiliary body of the Security Council. Then came criticism – how is it possible for the auxiliary authority to be a court? Then they said, "Let's make it an ad hoc auxiliary organ." I think it was from Article 39. It's the UN's command. Again, everyone felt that the legitimacy problem was very pronounced, because if there is no legitimacy, then no decision can be legal. Just to remind you that the talks were concluded in 1998, as the process of forming a permanent war crimes court was launched earlier, and ended on 16 July 1998, when so-called. The Roman Statute of the Permanent Court of War Crimes. It was created on the basis of an international contract, as the countries participating in the talks concluded such an agreement. By concluding such an agreement, they have transferred part of their sovereignty and their sovereign rights in the area of judicial office to an international institution, along with many provisions guaranteeing the sovereignty of members. Regardless of the statute, members later continued negotiations to define the elements of the beings of these crimes prescribed by the UN tribunal's Statute. Most of all, the US delegation, headed by Teodor Meron, has been rebelled by the tribunal in The Hague. So, official America opposed the establishment of a permanent war crimes court, and then their representative, who opposed it, was elected judge and, for God's sake, it seems to me that in two terms he was president of the UN tribunal. It's for that consistency. On account of that Roman statute, just to remind you that the SRJ has ratified it. That's what the U.S. ratified on the last day of Bill Clinton's term, but the instruments of ratification never gave up. Then they set out in bilateral agreements with the states so that the Roman Statute would not apply to their soldiers and their citizens. It's just to understand this - the collapse in Europe and these calls for major liquids, democratic, of course, to fight for human rights, to pawn America, Europe, for respect of the constitution and the law, it's no parody at all. These are all the dry facts. To address the Hague tribunal's problem, which continues to exist with their legitimacy, the Latins came to their senses, and then recommended that all countries pass special laws on co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Why have these laws been passed? For one simple reason, which would stop many states from allowing their citizens to be delivered to a foreign court. So, stopping many countries doesn't allow that. A famous example is Germany, which passed one such law, but stated in the law that no German can be delivered to The Hague tribunal. Then he put pressure on the SRJ and the pressure ended with the adoption of the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The law, and it has no constitutional basis, since the law stipulates that the SRJ delivers, or as the term is used there, teaches its citizens to The Hague tribunal, the SRJ has admitted to destroying its sovereignty. Later, the state community, later that law changed some of its forms, or dates of new adoption, and today we have this as one material force; it is neither legal nor legitimate, but there is, it produces facts. We have a situation that when our citizens in this Hague tribunal achieve success, defeat the prosecution, show what kind of witnesses they are, show the shape of the forgeries of Serbian history, then simply, someone in Serbia goes wild, and then Sonja Licht bans "the politicians" from reporting about the trial, bans the real reporting, and then the citizens who follow through television, at 10 p.m., the transfer of the trial to Vojislav Seselj, when they read "Politics" in the morning can't be surprised what is written. It's a similar situation with another newspaper. Simply, this information about something that is extremely quality and successfully done, about which the whole world is buzzing, in Serbia cannot be heard, absolutely not heard. Then the question arises – who does it bother? So, today we have this situation where someone angry breaks a statue of casts. Just to remind you, the vair of that statue is the son of our MP Dimitrijevic from the DSS. He just told me that his son had heard about it and promised to make twice as much bust, twice as much bust Radovan Karadzic will also make it prominent in the bookshop "Nikola Pasic", where you can buy very cheaply those books about Serbian truth. I told you all this to understand, make some parallel with this Zumbul operation. Yes, you laugh, no judges are laughing, no prosecutors are laughing, especially those from Nis and the surrounding area, when they heard that, according to their function, a member of the zero composition of the High Council of the Judiciary will be Bosko Ristic. Just smile, everything Bosko Ristić did in his life, about the rights and those things, was unsuccessful. He wrote the Constitutional Charter, we don't have that state. He threw out DSS MPs, just to remind you, so they were all returned by the federal constitutional court's decision on the constitutional appeal. He's been working on changes to the Rules of Procedure, he's done a lot of things, and everything's been rated as bad. Young man, I can't praise you anymore. You're extremely successful. Ever since you, young man, adopted the amendment, you've changed so much that I have to commend you. Srdjan Milivojevic has made real progress. You see for yourself how DS ideology has changed, it has become far more efficient – BIA here today, tomorrow there, the day after, perhaps, in your apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9334	Mr. Aligrudic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9335	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to discuss the amendment between Mr Dujovic Saša and Milicevic Djordje, who are treating the Court's problem in Priboj, we must say that, in fact, the position of Article 3 is changing. Proposal for a law on the basic court in Prepolje, which says the Court of First Instance is established in Prepolje, for the territory of the municipalities of Nova Varoš, Priboj and Prepolje, with judicial units in Novi Varosha and Priboj. In an explanation, the government says why it refuses this amendment. The government does not accept the amendment for the reasons set out for not accepting the amendments of MP Radovic Milice as a member of the 3rd law. Then return to the Radovic Milice amendment to article 3 of this law and here, among other things, we hear the following. Why is this amendment not accepted by Radovic Milice? In fact, MP Radovic Milica suggested that there are 138 municipal courts. We said last time that the term "municipal" was used here on purpose, to allud to the need to reset the whole thing, to return to the very beginning, and thus draws attention to the legislator to make a new bill, because this one is not good. The term itself, in fact, isn't so important in this matter. Among other things, this is what you say - Article 3. The bill stipulates that there are judicial units in all municipalities where municipal courts existed. Look, that is true, but if you want to have fewer basic courts than the previous number of municipal courts, it is natural for you to provide for judicial units in certain areas, because of the citizens and those who are interested, who need the court's media to solve their problems or their disputed relations, or for the state to act on the perpetrators of criminal acts or those who commit crimes. So it's necessary to cover a certain territorial area. This is not disputed, however, it is said otherwise – on the other hand, the proposed network of basic courts will allow a much larger number of judges to act in cases, as judges are elected for the court rather than for the judicial unit, thus achieving more objective work of the court, equating judicial practice (I cannot understand) and avoiding the influence of the local environment on the work of judges. This raises a normal question – and who judges in these judicial units? No one? Because if judges are elected as primary court and not as judicial units, normally to choose for the basic court, does that mean that these judicial units are calling you empty? Does that mean that the judges in the judicial units have to be found there and tried? What's the court's case if the judge doesn't come to court? Does that mean that the judge who came to the courthouse is impossible to exercise local influence? Probably not, because the idea of a bill promoter is that they're walking around a little bit, so that one judge is not out of Preboy, but who knows where. It's all nice and wonderful, but it doesn't answer the question we've asked a hundred times so far – where are the criteria? Why don't we have a basic court in Priboj? Why is the primary court only in Prepolje, and there is no court in Priboj? We were able to see one So Pryboj initiative at a session held on 27.10.2008, in which they say they are asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amend the Law on Seats and Areas of the Courts, this proposal that we are discussing today, by providing for the existence of a municipal court in Priboj, again I claim that it is an irrelevant term for the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, or for the existence of a municipal court in Priboj, for the territory of the municipality of Priboj and Nova Varoš, with the court department in Novi Varosha, which becomes the public prosecutor's office of the Presidial Court in Priboj. In the light of this initiative, among other things, they say, I concentrate on what is relevant to me – the Municipality of Priboj is a border municipality, with very expressed certain needs and problems. It is a mountain-mounted area, with very poorly designed communication systems, poor travel communication and very remote settlements from the center of the municipality, which is true. At the same time, it is an area where certain criminal acts and offences by a person using the area as transit only are often done, precisely for the reasons of the border municipality. The density of the population is indeed quite small, but the very area of the municipality and the number of inhabitants deserve to be the headquarters of these state bodies on this territory, etc. Comparatively, compared to Prijepolje and the whole area covered by these municipalities, where we establish judicial units and where we don't establish them, the question arises – what criterion did the legislator urge to leave out the basic court in Priboj? We do not see these criteria, because from what has been given in the reasons for the refusal of the amendment, Milica Radovic does not insist that these can be criteria and reasons for rejecting this amendment, and these reasons are literally cited for rejecting this amendment. Then, in some cases here, in this brochure that we received from the Government, where the review of the amendments that were accepted and rejected, for which reasons they were rejected, we see that, in order not to have to give specific explanations for individual amendments, they worked on the computer principle of "copy-pass", so in many cases they wrote the same explanation. The amendment, Kenana Hajdarevic, says, is not accepted for reasons for not accepting Milice Radovic's amendment to Article 3, so in certain cases the Milice Radovic amendment is not accepted for the same reason that my amendment is not accepted, or vice versa, etc. This candle is full of it. The criteria and the reasons to be cited for solving individual cases, which is why a certain basic court should exist for certain areas, which is why it should not, why and where judicial units are formed and which are the reasons, do not stand anywhere. Believe me, these reasons cannot be the same for all municipalities in Serbia and for all areas in Serbia. This is, in one way, a misrepresentation of the applicants for the amendment, because in this way, literally, the possibility of MPs being able to participate in this debate in an equal and normal manner. This, in my opinion, is neither correct nor good, and reads something else – that the proposal has no answer to the question we ask, because that there is an answer to these questions, for each of the proposed amendments there would be an explanation why so must be. In one part of this argument, Milica Radovic's amendment, among other things, says the proposed network of basic courts, is in line with the analysis of the work of the so far-called municipal courts and the average annual inflow of cases. That's not true. We've proven this to you in our discussion, you have a stenogram, that we're not going back to where all the cases of what you've stated as a rule are not true. Maybe it's some analysis you've been running, but the result of that analysis is incorrect. This analysis results in facts. The facts are completely different. We ask ourselves, what is this analysis, who did this analysis, how was it done, so that you could come to such conclusions? That's the problem with this bill. I think and I stand behind it that it would be best for this bill to be withdrawn, that a comprehensive analysis be actually made. I repeat, we at the DSS have nothing against reducing the total number of municipal units, or, in the new variant, basic, courts; the network should be slightly smaller, it was our idea, too, to form judicial units, to make all of this right, but what we did here is a surrogate idea that we had. We can't, as someone who was the bearer of that idea in time, accept this. This looks like some kind of unsent joke or bad comedy. This is indeed unacceptable for us. Of course, what's gonna happen in voting day, we'll see. I'm not sure how this is going to end when it comes to the submitted amendments and the fate of this bill. That's why it's wiser for you to withdraw this bill, to consult the professional public in this part. Not every argument has to be respected. There's local interests, everything and everything. You can listen to what the expert public is saying about this and you can actually do a good and independent analysis and, based on it, get results. This isn't a matter that needs to be finished right now. We can end next year, bring here one bill of law, make one law that will later be in the role of achieving the judiciary and the judicial role of the state in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9336	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9337	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that the reform of the Serbian judiciary is conditio son of qua non-legal state. The majority of our citizens support a package of these judicial laws, and this law on territorial organisation, which we call a network of courts and public prosecutors, is only one in the segment of these laws. It is necessary to adopt all laws, both on judges, and on the High Council of the judiciary, and on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and on the State Council of Prosecutors, and on this law on territorial organisation, on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. The parameters which were managed by the motionor are relevant for the formation of courts, we heard it in the presentation of Ms. Minister, as the legislator, we saw it both in the reasoning of the law and in the debate which was conducted in principle and in particular. I intervened in the amendment to Article 3 paragraph 1 of point 27, respecting all the parameters managed by the legislator, which are also demographic and geographical parameters, traditions, as well as the current state of play in the current municipal court in Ruma, the number of judges, the number of cases, litigation, criminal, etc. I found it appropriate to intervene with an amendment, to rationalise the network of courts regarding the Srem County. The bill provides for the establishment of a basic court in the territory of the Srem County, which is the basic court in Sremska Mitrovica, with judicial units in Ruma, Irig, Pecinci, Stari Pazova. I proposed an amendment to establish the basic court in Ruma, for the territory of the municipalities of Indji, Irig, Pećinci, Rum and Stara Pazova, with judicial units in Indjija, Irig, Caves and Stara Pazova, and that the basic court in Sremska Mitrovica be established for the territory of the municipalities of Šid and the city of Sremska Mitrovica, with the judicial unit in Shid. I managed, above all, geographical and demographic and infrastructure parameters when I proposed and formulated this amendment. In short, I'm just going to take out some of these parameters. The Sremski District, according to the 2002 census of the Republic Statistics Institute, has 335,901 inhabitants and is the third largest county except Belgrade. They're bigger South and Nishavi County. As for the city of Ruma, it numbers 32,000 inhabitants, according to the 2002 census, and the municipality itself, the town of Ruma and 16 inhabited towns, have about 65,000 inhabitants. Why am I saying this? All of these cities, Subotica, Zrenjanin, Kikinda, Vršac, Pančevo, Sombor, Sabac, Valjevo, Smederevo, etc., all of these cities, which have more than 30,000 inhabitants, including Ruma, would have the seat of the basic court, except for Ruma. I've come up with the following data, that Loznica, Negotin, Paracino, Požega and Prokuplje have fewer than 30,000 inhabitants, and they have mostly basic courts seats. Sremska Mitrovica, as envisioned by the proposal for this law, would have the seat of the basic court, because it is the headquarters of the Sremska Management District. The main court headquarters in Mitrovica, geographically, is situated on the periphery of the county's territory, because Central and Eastern Srem represents a territory with 218,000 inhabitants. There are Stara Pazova, Indjia, Irig, Ruma and Pećinci, and residents of the largest part of Srema pass through Sremska Mitrovica only when they travel to the Republic of Croatia or other countries south of Austria. Other reasons for the trip to Sremska Mitrovica have been excluded, given the close communication of Ruma with Novi Sad and Belgrade, which are located between 20km and 50km from the municipality's headquarters. The proposed territorial organisation of the basic courts is based on the principle that, mainly, the courts' seats represent a geographical centre for the area for which the court was established, as well as a commercial, economic and other centre for citizens who will exercise their rights before that court or be a party. So, the basic court in Sremska Mitrovica, as a territorial centre for Mitrovica and Šid municipalities, would cover a total of 124,800 inhabitants. My amendment proposal, if adopted, by forming a basic court in Ruma, with judicial units in Irig, Caves, Paz and Indjia, would cover an area of about 200,000 inhabitants. My amendment would certainly not violate the concept of this law, which is excellent. I believe that the parameters used by the legislator are relevant and valid, but I also believe that the adoption of my amendment would improve the territorial organisation, i.e. the network of courts, especially in relation to the Sremski District. Therefore, the basic concept would not be violated, with all these elements that I put forward leading to the formation of a basic court in Ruma, so that the Sremski administrative district would have two basic courts – in Sremska Mitrovica and in Ruma.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9338	Mr. Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9339	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment of my esteemed colleague Vlatko Ratkovic is absolutely on the line of what the SRS represents. So we need to keep an existing judicial network. I absolutely support Mr. Ratkovic's suggestion that the municipality of Ruma has its basic court. I think there's economical and demographic and social and all the other reasons. I have already said in a discussion on the amendments of other MPs that the Serbian government seems to have gone completely wrong and wrong. Instead of reducing public spending by rationalising the state administration, which is too massive, the Serbian government has begun to do so by changing the judicial network in Serbia, which will again lead to the collection of justice for citizens. It will lead to the dismissal of a large number of judges and a large number of staff working in the judicial administration. In doing so, the Serbian government completely ignores all the criticisms that the opposition in the National Assembly of Serbia has given it, but also their friends from the European Union, the World Bank and the IMF. Here's the thing. According to World Bank data on the number of employees in individual European countries between 1999 and 2001, it can be concluded that the Serbian state administration has been pre-named, i.e. the number of persons working in the state administration above the European average. The number of employees in the state administration in Serbia is higher than in Finland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, which alone, with the exception of Finland, are in transition. Comparative data on the participation of employees and officials in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia and in Central and Eastern European countries in the total volume of public spending are also unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has seen greater participation of the fund in the overall volume of public spending than in Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia. As the current government, both present and earlier, refers to respect for legality and how it imagines rationalising the state administration in Serbia, let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia assess for themselves, let the MPs assess. I will speak exclusively with the language of facts, the language of numbers, the language of official documents of ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This can be interpreted as one micro-study as the current government violates the principle of constitutionality and legality, as it tramples all possible legal principles, only to employ its party personnel in the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, and the provisions of the Law on State Administration, the Law on State Servants and Peasants are officially violated. I have in my hands the records of regular inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. It is an act by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Department of Administrative Control, the Department of Administrative Inspectorate No 130-038-00-26/2007-13, on 2.7.2007. So one wing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or one party in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, controlled how their coalition partners work in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. In order to avoid any confusion, the opposition controlled the government, but one part of the government controlled the other part of the government. Here's what one part of the government found out how the other part of the government behaves. On page 6 of this report, section b) the deployment of civil servants and deputies, as well as on page 7 and the next several pages, reads – a number of civil servants at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not been passed a state expert exam prescribed by Article 84. The State Administration Act and Article 100. The civil servants' laws do not meet the special conditions, passed the state expert exam in the Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs, and therefore no conditions for the deployment of executive posts in a particular title, and so on... I'm not going to name these people, it wouldn't be correct, but I'll speak the language of numbers. So here it is said – a certain number of civil servants. It's an extremely large number. It is said this way – in the Center for Analyticals and Agrarian Policy – one man, in the Department for Inspectives – 11 people, in the Department for Legal and General Affairs – two people, in the Project Centre – three people, in the Office for Plant Protection – 11 people, in the Republic Water Directorate – 13 people, in the Forest Administration – 10 people, in the Veterinary Administration, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament who advocate joining the EU, 121 people employed without passing a professional state exam. In working relation to a certain time, which also does not meet the legal requirements, in the Plant Protection Administration – two people, in the Veterinary Administration – 11 people, in the Department for the Development of Villages and Agriculture – two people. On page 14 of this report, section v) of the field of working relations between civil servants and deputies, writes - Article 157. The law on civil servants is prescribed that each state body implements part of the personnel plan that applies to it. The inspection survey found that a number of employees formed a working relationship at the ministry contrary to the adopted temporary staff plan for 2007, a total of three people. Article 88. In addition, it is prescribed that the State official's law may be transferred directly to a more executive position of a civil servant who has at least been given a joint assessment twice – particularly points out, and in Article 90 of that law – that a civil servant may, for the sake of need of work, be permanently or temporarily transferred to another relevant position in the same State authority, or temporarily transferred to another State authority. Here is the name of a lady who is a graduate construction engineer, by solution 112-01-1/561/06-09, from 14.7.2006. The lady is assigned to the post of water inspector, calling for a consultant in the Department of Water Inspection, in the area of the management district of Mačvanski, Kolubarski, Podunavski and Braničevski administrative district and the Belgrade area unit, based in Belgrade, which is established under regular number 223. It's a rule book. It has been permanently moved to the workplace for administrative and analytical affairs, calling an independent consultant, Department of Administrative and Analytical Affairs and Standards in the area of water industry, which has been established under the regular number of 187 Regulations, starting from 1.02.2007. The transfer decision is 112-01-131/07-09, since 1 March 2007. The basis for the decision is Article 88. The law on civil servants, since it is reportedly two consecutive evaluations – particularly for 2005 and 2006. However, Article 3. The regulation on the evaluation of civil servants is prescribed to begin the first evaluation period on 1 January 2007, and to transfer the civil servant under Article 88. The law on civil servants could not be implemented on 1 March 2007. In addition, the procedure for filling the place of work for administrative and analytical affairs, which was classified as calling an independent adviser, to which it was appointed, has not been implemented in a manner prescribed by Article 3. Regulations implementing an internal and public competition to fill working targets in state bodies ("Employee of the Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 3, from 2006. Namely, no solution has been reached on filling the enforcement post, which is being provided to the staff management service, and besides, no statement by the executive that the enforcement post is being completed by the transfer of a civil servant from the same authority. The filling of a job for administrative and analytical jobs in calling an independent advisor does not even fit the provisional staff plan, as 15 jobs are provided for in 2007 to be called an independent consultant and all jobs are filled. Imagine what Javier Solana or Ollie Rehn would tell you to hear this. In the light of the personal files appointed, it was found that the staff had not passed a state expert's examination and that their working relationship had not been cancelled, contrary to Article 130(1), point (b) of Article 1(4), by the end of the trial work, i.e. until 20 May 2007 and 18 June 2007. Law on civil servants. The legality of the decision on the classification of executive posts in certain titles, in accordance with the Law on civil servants, could not be established, imagine, because the personal files of employees lack evidence of professional staff preparation, as well as evidence of the necessary work experience in the profession. The inspection supervision found that a certain number of civil servants had not established the names in which jobs were classified in accordance with the law, and then listed the names of people, which I do not mention. The personal files of the staff shall be unsettled and shall not contain all evidence of compliance with the general conditions for the establishment of a working relationship prescribed by Article 45. Law on civil servants. It is then said that the evidence of school preparation is missing, certified copies of diplomas, certificates of the passed expert exam, citizenship assurances and others, work books are unsupervised and for a number of employees are not given an insight. From page to page, shame and shame to the executive authority in Serbia. You think this is how you introduce Serbia into the European Union. You employ your party staff without evidence of school preparation, you violate the Civil Service Act, you violate the State Administration Act, you violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It just doesn't apply to you. You are not covered by any legal norm in the Republic of Serbia. Anything good for DS and G17 plus, that's allowed. Which is contrary to the current legislation in the Republic of Serbia, what do we care! So, gentlemen of the Serbian government, unfortunately, there's no one here, I guess they're tired, change politics. Change the path you think you are reforming the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. Leave the judges alone. These are to the greatest extent honorable and honest people, who want to live on what they were trained to be judges. Get into things like this. Hundreds and thousands of people, this is just one small example, I can bring you dozens of these illegal records, you've hired in your ministries as your party personnel. These are completely unprofessional people, unable to meet any legal requirements, but they are making a year-to-year budget for the Republic of Serbia. Your ministers are announcing, asking Serbian citizens to tighten their belts. Tighten your belt, gentlemen of power. It's easy to tighten the belt for a man who's hungry. Put your belt on first. A Russian historian said it wasn't a good country growing while the people were weak. The people of Serbia are getting thinr and thinr, and you, gentlemen of power, are getting fatter and fatter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9340	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9341	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, no matter what energy Mrs Malovic shows me, I was just about to say that I'm very sorry that you're not here. Before, it seems, three days ago, I asked Mrs. Malovic to stay the night and to withdraw this law from the procedure. Obviously, it wasn't anything. We're still discussing the law, or Mrs. Malovic didn't have enough time to sleep. They're repeating the more detailed arguments I made the other day. There are good laws and there are less good laws. Personally, I think this law is very harmful, by country, of course. I'll try to explain it. First of all, one of the motives, as I understand it, to keep from 138 courts 34, were objections to the work of so-called. small courts, where someone found it to be a great degree of corruption, to have unprofessional personnel, to have, to say, lazy judges. I believe that this was established, however, I think that Mrs Malovic, as the current minister, and any other minister, would have the general support of the Assembly to stand in the way of the team and such judges. That doesn't seem like the law. Every month someone robs some mail in Serbia. One way to stop a robbery is to close the mail. Then there'll be no robbery. That's right here. To get rid of corrupt or incompetent judges, we'll close the courts. I'm not sure that's the right way. I've already brought up the thesis on the fried land. The fact is that once you've abolished the court, at the same time you've driven not only judges, who have to go to a bigger place to work, with your families, of course, but at the same time you've kicked lawyers out of that place; no one who's going to be tried by a judge from Sremska Mitrovica in, for example, Indjia will be taken by lawyers from India. He's taking lawyers from Sremska Mitrovica. That's totally logical. In time, less and less young people will need to stay in such a place, and you make such places practically dead. Close their high school, eventually terminate their hospital, and it is quite clear that in ten years, 99% of the population of Serbia will live in these 34 cities that have now received basic courts, or who have had the good fortune to stay in high school. I've set an example of Ustasha. It is a small town 60 km from the Kings, where I had the opportunity to speak to the locals a couple or three years ago; they were suspended high school, children travel every day 60 km to the Kings and, of course, the consequence is that the number of inhabitants was halved in ten years, with a tendency, when the older ones, already in years, naturally go away, to shut down the place completely. Of course, I don't think there must be 138 courts left. Serbia has 186 municipalities, if I am not mistaken, not every municipality has to have a court, but it needs to find some measure in everything. You can't have all the space, say, I've submitted an amendment to the court's schedule in Srem, and I can't have all the luck being brought down to one court in Sremska Mitrovica. My amendment is slightly wider than Mr. Ratkovic's amendments, and I suggested that the courts be held both in Ruma and in Indjia, and in Old Paz, and in Shid. Well, he doesn't have to, there's no court in Irig, there's no court in the Caves, it's okay, they're still smaller municipalities. I'm not saying, maybe not all five courts have to stay, but let's keep it two or three. Therefore, I think that in one more complex way, the provisions of this law are reviewed, to leave one larger number, certainly, a significantly larger number than 34 courts, I say, does not have 138, and then there would be no such reaction, if we had 124 amendments to the law of 19 members, of which, 30 amendments from the party in power. In that it's very strange, I don't remember such a case, practically, everyone can freely support all amendments. It is enough, for example, for everyone to support Mrs. Radovic's amendment and we can all give up the amendment, or, more logically, that the law is withdrawn from the procedure, to make a better bill, perhaps with the same concept of reducing the number of courts, but better done. Then probably no one would have any trouble voting for such a law. I'm worried about one more thing, though. Looking for motives for such a drastic reduction in the number of courts, from 138 to 34 of the basic court, I am afraid, although Mrs Malovic assured me the other day that it was not, that one of the motives is that 34 of the Presidents of the Courts are much easier to control than 138 of the President of the Courts and that one of the very bad intentions of the authorities is behind it – that they control the courts. For so many years, first of all, I have been in opposition for many years, though, my party has been in power, but I have always advocated being a legal state and for the separation of the judiciary from the executive authorities. I guess that's what we all stand for. But by making a small number of courts, with a small number of court presidents, these court presidents have become necessarily important and necessarily must be under the control of the government, because they will depend on it. And to say that, that's what I was talking about last time, there's no economic motive at all. So I don't see economic logic at all. For me, the price of the judiciary in Serbia, the total amount, directly proportional to the number of cases, not the number of judges, assistant workers and so on. The number of objects is, statistically, always the same. Some court will one year have 100 or 1,000 less, then 1,000 more, but, at Serbia level, it is the same amount of statistical size and it costs as much as the trial, starting with those, I say, banal trials, for banal traffic violations, to the most complex and complicated trials. You can do it in three courts, in 303 courts, that's always it and that's how much it's gonna cost. The only question is whether judges, lawyers, all auxiliary staff, move, I don't know, from Ratche to Kragujevac, from India to Mitrovica, or not. Where will they live and where will you pay them? But you're going to pay them again, not to say that you're going to save a little bit of that on some courier's, extreme judicial aid business, so much so, if not much more, spend on travel expenses and judges' journals who, I don't know if anyone's thinking about it, should, at eight hours of working time, go away, judge and return. I'm not sure how effective such a job will be. That's why, Madam Minister, once again I ask you to withdraw this law from the procedure. I think that's for you, and for the ruling majority, and for the opposition most useful, so that you can go to this assembly with a much higher proposal, a proposal that can basically have the same idea, which in itself isn't bad, but which, in realisation of that idea, will be without these tails that I was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9342	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we received word that the Patriarch of Russia, Mr. Alexei, had passed away, and in your name and in your name I sent a Russian Duma telegram containing the following contents: "I regretfully received news of the death of the Patriarch of the Russian, Mr. Alexei. His personality, as a man and as a patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, is a form of struggle for a better world of all people on earth, regardless of gender, race or religion. His death, the Orthodox world, but also the Orthodox in general, loses a person who, as the Patriarch of Russia, has left an indelible mark, which will remember generations that come, not only in Russia, but generations around the world. Mr. Grizzlov, accept, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my personal behalf, the expressions of sincerest condolences. "Who answered the word? Mrs. Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I start talking about the amendment, I need to speak to you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, personally, because once again in the day you showed that you have different arches than the MP groups. I remind you again that today, at the initiation of a parliamentary group, you have counter-worked a session of a committee. I do not mention any parliamentary group, nor any committee, because I have already said this, but without any comment, you left the request of my colleague Ljuba Kragovic to get the opinion of the Legislative Committee on the issue as soon as possible – is the accompanying act administrative, is this an act that is important for the decision? The problem tabled by my colleague Ljuba Kragovic, who we talked about yesterday, concerns the fill-up of parliamentary seats from the SRS list in the municipality of Leposavic, is also very urgent, bound by deadlines and should have been done, at least, just as you did in that first case, especially since you had the president of the Legislative Committee present here. You should have asked the chairman of the Legislative Committee to schedule a session and give that opinion on RIK. Otherwise, as a graduate lawyer, I argue, and I know that this accompanying act, which served as an alibi for the RIK part, is not to fill the council seats with SRS committees in the municipality of Leposavic, a completely irrelevant paper, which did not have to exist at all. Here, colleague Kragovic comes in and can hear what I'm about to say. So this paper that says, in addition to that and that, it's something that has nothing to do with the subject in the process. The documentation submitted to RIK was free to bring in a pigeon writer. It is important that the documentation is complete and that there were and there are conditions to fill out parliamentary seats from the SRS list in the municipality of Leposavic. So much, first of all, for the public, and I really expect you to have the same relationship with all the parliamentary groups in the future. Whether we are nice to you, or not, it is completely irrelevant, it is important that you act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and have the same criteria for each MP and each MP group. When it comes to the amendment of counterpart Zoran Shami, and previously Vlatka Ratkovica, who are in one part the same essentially refers to the same territory of the court, we have here a real example of what I was talking about when I spoke about one of the previous amendments. We were wondering these days what was the government of Serbia's criteria not to determine such a network of courts, it's a special story, I'll also talk about it, but what criteria were run by the government when, of the 130 amendments, 19 adopted and others did not? What is the difference between any fellow Members whose amendment has not been adopted and someone whose amendment has been adopted? Have you, for example, adopted the amendments of Nenad Konstantinovic and Srdjan Milivojevic because you have more sympathy for "resilients" than, say, Vlatko Ratkovic, whose amendment you have not adopted, or is it because Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has been playing your "bodigard" in this House for several days? Indeed, no sound reasoning could be found. Vlatko Ratkovic and his amendment are examples of what I have already said several times. This is a message, first of all, to the citizens of Ruma, of course, and to everyone who follows us. Vlatko Ratkovic, as a public envoy from Ruma, asked that there be a basic court in Ruma. The amendment has not been accepted so far, and if it will be in the voting day, we will see. If the amendment is not accepted, will counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic vote for this law or not? Did he come out here to explain his amendment to the citizens of Ruma to hear Vlatko Ratkovic pleading for the interests of his fellow citizens, or did he really mean it? If he truly represented the citizens of Ruma here and if this important amendment is not passed on to him, he must vote against the law. There's no other explanation. If counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic votes for this law and does not get the amendment adopted in his voting day, then today he has deceived the citizens of Ruma who represent him in the most harsh way possible. The MP can say whatever he wants from here, not to be misread, so there are no restrictions, that's the position of the SRS, but it's not correct to go out here and say that you represent a group of citizens and that on behalf of that group of citizens you insist on, you ask, you don't get it, and you vote again for what you haven't been adopted. At the very least, that doesn't make sense. Or if, in the day of the vote, Vlatko Ratkovic's amendment is adopted, it can be interpreted as his condition for voting for the law. In any case, I draw attention to fellow Members of the People's Parliaments that in the day of voting, we particularly take care of this amendment, so that we can inform the citizens of Serbia, in this case the citizens of Ruma, in the case of Vlatko Ratkovic's amendments, whether DS MPs truly represent the interests of citizens who represent or behave as they would like to hear, and when they vote, then the button is pressed contrary to what is being said in this place. And Mr. Ratkovic's amendment, and Mr. Shami's amendment, I have already said, applies in one part to the same court territory, but is more acceptable to our parliamentary group to Mr. Shami, because this amendment, unlike what Vlatko Ratkovic suggested, proposes municipal courts, alongside Sremska Mitrovica, and in Indija, Stara Pazova, Shid and Ruma. So if this amendment is not adopted, then it would be good to adopt at least this amendment where it is proposed, in addition to the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica, and the establishment of a municipal court in Ruma. Really, I have the impression, Madam Minister, that you never once visited Serbia; if you did, I think you'd know how to go from, say, Old Paz to Sremska Mitrovica, and that you wouldn't think of it being the territory of a court. In addition to everything you've listed here as a reason, people, say, from Old Paz, have to pay even tolls for Sremska Mitrovica. You're here to explain to us today that there are no additional costs, that no citizen will have to travel from the seat of his municipality. We've already said more than once that's not true and proved it to you, of course. Milos Aligrudic had just continued what I had started before, this ridiculous side of the reasoning of the Serbian government on every amendment. No matter what territory it refers to, the argument goes – the amendment is not accepted, as in Milice Radovic's amendment, several times afterwards – Milos Aligrudic, then Milice Radovic again. We came to the 14th page of the argument, the government's report, a big explanation for the Milice Radovic amendment. Otherwise, let me remind you that we have said more than once today that it would be best to adopt this amendment, because this amendment provides for the existence of 138 basic courts. What does the government say? The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposed amendment provides for the establishment of 138 basic courts, which is entirely identical to that of the current law, under which there are 138 municipal courts. ''You have not proved to us, Madam Minister, that the problem with the functioning of the courts is that there are 138 municipal courts in Serbia today. You didn't convince us that this was the cause of the poor functioning of the judiciary and you didn't convince us that this was the cause of crime and corruption in the judiciary. You did not convince us that 138 municipal courts in Serbia mean, in itself, the poor judiciary. So this is an argument we can't possibly accept. You say, this solution is not in line with the draft law on the regulation of courts, which provides for the education of judicial units outside the seat of the basic courts. Of course he doesn't agree with that. That's what we're telling you. We want it to be out of line with that, because we're looking for a different solution to the amendment. You're writing us arguments as if the MPs were morons. Tell us something new, tell us something you're going to convince us of, or you're going to tell us what you said in the end, which is one big lie and what, in most cases, are colleagues who spoke as a reason why they think they need to keep the courts in their municipalities. This is the last and last sentence: "In determining the number of basic courts and the area of their jurisdiction, in addition to the inflow of cases, it was taken into account that in every city and administrative district in the Republic of Serbia at least one basic court." Does this, gentlemen, fellow lawyers, have any legal reason for such a network of courts? It's really amazing. What do you say next? And here the government is lying to us, he says – in addition, as a criterion for the education of the basic court, there are also criteria for the geographical distance and development of the travel network. We've been telling you for five days, exactly, among other things, the geographical distance is the reason for the submission of 130 amendments. The lack of development of the travel network is the reason for the submission of 130 amendments, exactly what we are talking about here, talking and talking about, which is what Serbian citizens know is and what we have their support for, and through phone calls, and through telegrams and letters that we receive in the SRS rooms. You say, for the sake of all this, the amendment is not accepted, since it is completely contrary to the applicant's intensities regarding judicial reform and the establishment of a completely new network of judicial authorities. Well, I guess the amendment is the way to be in... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The opposite of what the government wants, because if we thought as Government, we wouldn't stand for the amendments. My time is up, I apologize, just one more sentence. When it comes to the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, Mrs Malovic, it is the general opinion that this law must be withdrawn from the procedure. It is the general opinion of the MPs, the professional public, the citizens of Serbia, the media. So every step you're invited to withdraw this bill. Why such stubbornness is really unclear to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9344	The amendment, Mr. Srdjan Mikovic. I would just like to tell you that Mr Kragovic has, in fact, referred the question to the Republic Secretariat for legislation, but it does not matter, we will also refer the question to our Legislative Committee, following this discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9345	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are currently talking about an amendment at point 30 of Article 3. The bill submitted by Mr. Zoran Shami. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic has submitted the amendment to the same point. I would just point out one big difference between Mr. Shami's amendments, compared to the bill and Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's proposed amendment. If we could possibly adopt Mr. Zoran Shami's amendment, and I see that the SRS Group of MPs is closer to being positively determined according to that amendment, I must point out that in this situation, the citizens of Iriga would be left without a court covering their territory. Also, Irig and the Caves would be out of judicial units. So the citizens of Iriga and the citizens of the Cave would not be able to exercise their rights in court in places where they exercise their rights today. I am sorry that Mr. Vitomir Plužarević, the MP of the SRS from Vrdnik, did not report for the word, to say if it was okay for his Vrdnik and his Irig not to be treated with this amendment and not to know where the Irish would exercise their rights. I didn't want to report for any earlier amendments that had been filed. I think it is very important that, if the amendments are submitted, not all territories remain uncovered, because we have happened to submit amendments, if adopted, to forget the territories of the municipalities of Žitište, Sečanja, Gajin Han, Doljevac, and as far as I know, Mr Milan Lapčević's amendment, which makes it impossible for the citizens of Raznja to exercise their rights in front of the judicial unit, is supported by the SRS parliamentary group. I didn't see Mr. Milojkovic challenged the SRS government. The territories of New Montenegro, Little Ijoš, are being forgotten. In any case, the territory of Ivanzica is forgotten. I think it's very important, if we talk seriously about the moderations of how to improve the proposed legal text, to do it maximumly securely, that we do not, in the event of an amendment, come into a situation where a large number of citizens in certain municipalities are prevented from exercising their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9346	Before you came forward, Mrs. Radet, but here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9347	Mr. Mikovic, my advice is to make you a little less smart. The DSS did not submit amendments that would change the status they had so far, you mentioned Secchanj, Zitiste, Irig, etc. They never had any courts before, they had their own judicial units. We're talking basic courts here. That's why that amendment was written like that. When we want to consult you on how we're going to write amendments, we're going to do it anyway. But for starters, please be less smart.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9348	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9349	It is truly surprising how counterpart Mikovic tried to defend the government's proposal to Serbia. We've been talking here for a few days about the proposal for this law in particular. I must admit that you are one of the few of a dozen DS MPs sitting here, and I assume you are following what the MPs are talking about. I think it is clear to everyone that we are, in fact, insisting that the situation, when it comes to the network of courts, or the judicial authorities, should remain unchanged at this point, that the government withdraws the bill, so that it seriously sits down and makes a serious proposal. You probably didn't like what we called it, or explain to the citizens of Serbia in which they are represented by DS MPs, that they speak there, to them, to pass it on here, sometimes publicly, and vote completely contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens. You have tried to list here, allegedly, some courts, some places that would be left without judicial protection if some amendments were adopted. I suppose you have, in fact you should have an impact on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it is you who chose them and you can resolve them, to change ministers, etc., so you better talk to Mrs. Malovic, to explain to her, to convince her to withdraw this bill, not to cause chaos in the judiciary. I'm sure you're aware, too, of course, of your colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, who tells what he says and goes away. Otherwise, his argument was excellent and reasoned. But he got out of the O.R. because he obviously couldn't talk anymore, because he expected the minister at least to accept the amendment as a party colleague. So, don't abuse the fact that you've just listed several courts, to make an impression of someone who's been following what's been done here, so now you've apologized how... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... By accepting these amendments, municipal seats would be left without judicial protection. The best way and the best proposal is once again to withdraw this law or, at worst, accept the amendment to Milice Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9350	The word is Mr. Radovanovic, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9351	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I still had to report to the Rules of Procedure and join Mr Shami and Mrs Verice Radeti on the comments of fellow MP Srdjan Mikovic on what the SRS MPs are doing or not doing, according to him. In doing so, he unfoundedly stated that the SRS MP, Mr. Vlad Milojkovic, did not react on the matter of possible judicial protection and the exercise of justice before the court in Raznje. Mr. Mikovic, as an SRS MP, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 when it comes to criminal courts, and to Article 3, when it comes to basic courts. The bill does not change anything in the organisation of the court, both infringing and in the basic court. Right now, there's a municipal court in Aleksinec, with a court department in Raznje. Under the bill of law, the abolition of the Municipal Court in Aleksinc is envisaged, the Court of Justice of Nis is formed, with a judicial unit in Aleksinac and Raznje. So, there's nothing changing in Raznja again. When it comes to a mistrial, without arguments, without a basis, you mention some of our inactivity, which doesn't exist. You can see how active SRS MPs are, and Mr. Vlad Milojkovic did not have the need to react in the debate, as an SRS MP from Raznja, as you stated, especially since there was already an amendment that I submitted, and also a colleague Milan Lapcevic, as far as I know, on the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9352	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. Mr. Martinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9353	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly impressed by Mr. Mikovic's keenness. If you followed closely what he said, he points out criticism to the MPs of the SRS – why are they not submitting amendments to protect the rights of citizens who are threatened by the proposal that came from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? So, in my life, I have not heard a better argument about how rights and freedoms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be protected. Mr. Mikovic, the government of the Republic of Serbia is abolishing the existing judicial network in the Republic of Serbia, shutting down the courts, the judges will be dismissed, a large number of court personnel will be fired. Citizens, under difficult conditions, will be able to exercise their rights. That's the essence of this bill. If I'm not mistaken, you're a lawyer, instead of proposing to your minister, the government, to withdraw this bill from the assembly procedure, you're here triumphantly going out for a pay phone and calling out the MPs why your amendments do not defend citizens' rights, which is exactly what you're threatening by this bill. It is clear that DS MPs are investing amendments to this bill just to wash their conscience before the citizens of those municipalities they come from. Afterwards, DS MPs, in particular, suffer a lot of pressure. Why? Because they're part of the ruling coalition. It depends on them whether this law is passed or not. It's not just the case with Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. Every DS MP is likely to suffer more or less pressure than the judges, than the people who are employed in courts, than the citizens, to retain the existing judicial network. Then you play a double game, you tell those judges, you tell the court administration, you tell the citizens -- here, I'll do my best, I'll write the amendment, I'll propose to adopt your demands, but when the day comes, you won't, Mr. Mikovic, Mr. Ratkovic, or anyone else, vote for your amendment, which is nonsens, which is precedent, but you'll vote for this bill, which directly violates the rights of judges, judicial staff and citizens of the municipalities from which you come. So, Mr. Mikovic, you and your colleagues are hypocritical. You have no sincere intention of correcting the bill. You just want to make a smoke screen in front of the public, so that, for God's sake, you stand up for their rights... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... In fact, you will be a mere asset to the government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9354	Mr. Martinovic, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9355	Here, Mrs. Dejanovic, two seconds and I'm done... to adopt this bill that will lead to a judicial network in the Republic of Serbia and the entire legal system in chaos. If I'm wrong, here, the citizens of Serbia will be able to see for themselves on the day of the vote. If you are a man of your word, if you respect the citizens of the municipalities from which you come, if you are a man, vote in the day of voting for your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9356	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The word is wanted by Mr Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9357	President-in-Office, Ms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if this is about an amendment proposing the existence of a court in Gornji Milanovac, for the area of the municipality, there are justifiable reasons. That is the essence of this amendment. I must say, I understand the bill's intention that many of the problems that we have in the judiciary today need to be solved and that it is the urgency to rationalise the entire system of judicial authority. On the other hand, I am not entirely convinced that this law will do so. I allow myself to do so, but with the fence that I am unable to carry out, perhaps, a valid, adequate assessment, and I have no doubt that you, too, Mrs Malovic, have the best intentions. I would like the epilogue of everything to be such that when this law is adopted, such positive results as are set as objectives when it is proposed here. I am, in principle, an opponent of centralisation that contributes to the reduction of basic assumptions for the exercise of citizens' rights on various grounds. In fact, decentralisation is essentially a need in many areas of life and work and in the system of government, precisely for reasons – so that less developed environments can achieve their functions and contribute to a better, one better quality of life for citizens outside major centres. The decentralisation of the functions of the Republic in the area of the Executive Authority also implies adequate, compatible decentralisation and other functions, including judicial functions. Of course, there is no sign of equality between what is the decentralisation of the executive and what, in fact, I'm trying to explain as a parallel in the area of judicial authority, because they're different in their essence. As far as this amendment is concerned, I would like to say that we have reactions to both local self-government and local self-government officials and citizens in Gornji Milanovac, because it is a municipality that takes up 836 square kilometers, which has 50,000 inhabitants. There are 63 settlements in the municipality, and the municipality's diameter is over 110km. On the other hand, there are other reasons to be respected, because Gornji Milanovac has the same characteristic that is a state-of-the-art part of Serbia. In fact, in 1808, Karajordje founded a Mine Master in Mine. In 1824, Knez Milos Obrenović founded the Master in Brusnica, today's Gornja Milanovac. Furthermore, in 1836, also Prince Milos, the County Court of Cačka is moving to Brusnica, and in 1856, Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic moved all surrounding courts to today's Gornja Milanovac. A very important piece of information from the past, which speaks of what is tradition, because one of the criteria when establishing a network and editing courts should certainly be history and tradition, is that among the famous judges, by which, in Belgrade and other cities, streets bear names – Prince Atanasko Mihailović, Prince Marko Rakic, Ilija Popović Preljinac and the famous Duke Nikola Milicevic Lunjevica. Certainly, the past should not be a model of the future, but should be a basis for dignity, not in this case, Gornji Milanovac or any other narrow area, but for the very state, the Serbian people and all citizens living in Serbia. That's why these reasons are very significant. When the proposed network of courts is looked at, therefore, and sued and misdemeanor courts, other examples can be found where we could be justified to comment on the solutions offered. The very environment from which I come, Petrovac at Mlava, can make an observation when it comes to the surface, and about the number of objects, about the number of inhabitants, and about the distance from the Povorec, etc. In any case, I can hardly be attached to such solutions, although in principle I accept them as an attempt by the promoter to make certain changes in the judiciary, which today is burdened with a number of problems and with such problems cannot survive, and therefore has a negative impact on what citizens need. I will return to Gornja Milanovac and say that in the last three years there are nearly 23,000 cases in the Municipal Court, so the annual inflow is over 7.5 thousand cases. On behalf of those who are most interested in the specific amendment, on behalf of the local self-government of Gornji Milanovac and on behalf of the club SPS - Unique Serbia, I ask you, Madam Minister, to consider this amendment and this important data. Once again, I point out that in Gornji Milanovac, two centuries of history and the work of the judiciary should be marked straight this year. It is unpopular that such a tradition is not respected. In any case, my personal support and support for SPS MPs - Unique Serbia you have in what is your attempt to contribute to such changes in the judiciary that will make a general improvement for all citizens and the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9358	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Mr Popovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept this amendment from my colleagues, but I have to ask my fellow SPS fellow Members, if they don't adopt this amendment, will they vote for the law in general? I will use this debate to read to you and Serbian citizens the letter I received from a group of lawyers from the Kolubar district: "The law on the seat of the courts is a law which in its essence represents a direct invitation for people living in small areas, and that call is – you move to large cities, see that all the institutions of this country go to large areas. For the Kolubar region that means it – we all go to Belgrade or Valjevo. A large number of judges, prosecutors, lawyers are already making ads to sell their real estates and target apartments and houses around Belgrade. So, and what little we have of educated people in small communities, logically to flee to large cities, mostly to Belgrade, and what this government, by law, is directly encouraging legal solutions. In light of such a legal solution, it is said that it wants to prevent the influence of local powermakers on the work of small courts. What a lie. Why do you deceive Serbian citizens? Why don't you tell them that the judges and prosecutors are elected by the Republic Assembly and that local authorities can't either choose or dismiss judges? We ask you, how can one who cannot appoint or relieve prosecutors or the judge affect him in making decisions? Are you saying that judges or prosecutors in small areas are under pressure, and judges in large areas are not, because they live in large areas? ''In that sense, we must mention that a large number of lawyers, including a judge from the Colubary region, have asked us to mention the shameful beating up of their fellow Chikiriz. This man was so offended by his statements that a number of them wanted to come to this congregation to answer his lies. He says Mr. Chiquiriz can't win a dispute in a small court. His colleagues say you're either lying or you're an incompetent lawyer; you lose in small courts, you lose in Zrenjanin, in Novi Sad. Your judges are under pressure, your lawyers are connected to the judges, the witches are, as you said, all networked. They're wondering how do you have any business at all? Ugly is that you present some experiences from your failed cases behind this speaker. Blame your colleagues who are unable to answer you and try to draw general conclusions from individual cases. So in the Kolubar region, municipal courts of Ljig, Ub, Mininica, Lajkovac and Osecina are lifted. They become judicial units. Now imagine a judge from the League who should first travel to Valjev during the day, and then from Valjev, for example, to Osecin for trial. First someone from the League should drive him to Valev, or do you think the judge is traveling by bus? In addition, from Ljig to Valjev you have 20 seats where the bus stops, and after that, from Valjev, this judge who is already tired from a 40km trip should go to Osecina to judge, another 40km. When he gets there, I don't think he's up to anything, let alone focus on the subject. It snows, rains, who travels to trial? No judges, no parties, no one. We're gonna have a big increase in the number of sick judges, that's for sure. The Ibar highway passes through the municipality of Ljig. If there's a car accident, how's the judge from Valyev gonna make an insight into the League? Will he wait for him for a few hours, a blocked highway, or will the judge from Valjev be sitting in some bar at the Ibari Master's and waiting, don't let God, let the accident happen? Now, imagine this circus, the judge from Osecina travels almost 80 kilometers to Ljig, the judge from the League travels just as much to Osecina, and we all have to pretend that we don't know anything and trust Mr. Homen that it's a savings, that it will prevent the influence of local powers, that Mr. Chikiriz will be able to win some dispute there, that the witches won't be networked. The judge from Lykovec travels to Ub, the judge from Ub to Lykovac, the judge from Valjev to Mionica, the judge from Mionica to Osecino and so again Jovo. The only question is, who's gonna pay for all this? The same goes for public prosecutors. What about the citizens? I don't care about Mr. Homen that a man from the village of Zivkovac, the municipality of Ljig, will have to travel to Valjev about 70 kilometers and cross the bus six times and that man will eventually have to take justice into his own hands. Is that how you save, Mr. Homen? You, Mr. Homen, are one of the idea makers of this law. They ask your colleagues, how many years have you worked as a judge, so they can believe this is a good law? Explain, Mr. Homen, to the citizens next. Which is why the first draft law was withdrawn and removed from the Ministry's site, and then immediately, after four to five days, a new, diametrically opposite of the first one was published? Answer, have you been ordered by Europe, or have you determined that you are not doing well first? So, who took that first draft off, you or Europe? Further, explain the fact that based on the same geographical and infrastructure parameters, you make two diametrically opposite laws, of which the first one is prepared for a longer period, and the second one, in a few days, and the second one, you say, is better than the first one. Do you have guarantees that this law will be possible in practice if the Society of Judges, the Supreme Court of Serbia, all representatives of the courts, judges and prosecutors, give you the opinion that the law is inadmissible in practice? You say you'll be changing procedural laws. And what if you can't change them, even if you do, what will they change? Madam Minister, why did you, first of all, arrange the municipal court in Ljug, make central heating, adapt all the rooms, especially courtrooms, garages, prosecution rooms, equip all of this with computer equipment, furniture, air conditioning of all rooms, even these days you've been doing very expensive concrete works and support walls around the building, bringing the building into such a state that it looks really respectable and beautiful, and now you're cutting this court? Was that, perhaps, a money laundering? Is that where someone was supposed to make money? Indeed, what's the reason for you to take care of a building, invest a lot of money, and then cancel that court? What about all these courtrooms, cabinets, tea kitchens, equipment? Finally, the unanimous message of all your colleagues is to withdraw this law from the procedure, to sit down with experienced judges, prosecutors, lawyers, and to find the best solution for Serbia and Serbian citizens, who are asking you not to just defend them in this way as you defend them. Drag this law, don't hide behind Europe, this is not exactly what Europe has ordered; it would be more said that these are your ideas, on the basis of which you should point out, as you, Madam Minister, and you, Mr Homen, have reformed the Serbian judiciary. You won't get away with this, anyway, you'll see for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9360	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Reese Halimi's amendment, please, Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Riza Halimi whom I don't know for what reasons I don't see here, it's probably Friday, it's late, Presevo is far away, it's the farthest destination from Belgrade, and for some of his reasons he's gone, he filed an amendment to Article 3 of this law. I'm just going to brief on what this is about, although it's been heard many times from this pay phone. In Article 3(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The bill adds a new point 35, which reads: "The primary court in Presevo, for the territory of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, with the judicial unit in Bujanovac". And then that logical line -- so far point 5. The bill is amended and said: "The main court in Vranje, for the territory of the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Vladikin Han, Surdulica, Trgovište and Vranje, with the judicial unit in Bosilegrad, Vladicin Han and Surdulica. ". Right at the beginning, let me say that the SRS supports this amendment to Mr. Reese Halimi. The SRS supports all other amendments to this law, other MPs, regardless of whether they are from the opposition structure or from the structure of the government, as we have seen there are, in particular, supporting amendments submitted by MPs, representatives of national minorities or MPs on behalf of those places where there is a dominant number of representatives of various national minorities. We have been discussing this law for several days, and if we were to make a summary, we could say that the whole debate on these laws, especially this law, comes down to the exact same story of all the MPs. What's changing in this? Only geographical names of the place shall be changed, the names of the Members of Parliaments who submit these amendments and certain specificities relating to certain places, such as the number of inhabitants, whether or not a border municipality, whether or not such an above sea level or a municipality, whether divergence and borders and municipalities are such that places are far from the centre of the municipality, etc. Everything else is the same, and we heard it all from this pay phone. What I'm talking about is all the members of this law, and especially the 2nd and 3rd members of this law, by knowing that one applies to the offenders and the other to the basic courts. If, by any chance, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allowed a single, united debate to be conducted, we could decide to conduct a single debate on all amendments, because that is the structure of these amendments and that is the law. Now we ask ourselves – what makes Parliament inefficient? You've made the people's MPs, as far as we're concerned, repeat the same story, but that's the way it has to be done. You didn't expect to, and you're not surprised by the number of amendments to these laws we're considering, are you? We saw it here, I said in the beginning, that amendments are equally submitted by MPs of the government and MPs of the opposition. If some law we're considering deserves amendments, then it's this law. What will a small-town MP say, from any part of Serbia, whether it belongs to the opposition or to the authorities, when his fellow citizens ask him – did you advocate to remain the court in that place? Of course, a man must represent the interests of those people who chose him and, believe me, this time, when this law is on the agenda, I don't blame the MPs of the ruling majority at all, especially the MPs from the smaller places, because we saw that this law, above all, is being touched and treated by those smaller places. I come from Nis, you know, Nis is the second largest city in Serbia. This law does not touch Nis, but Nis and Nisovski County have a number of municipalities and I really must, in a way, at least from this pay phone, take to the protection of the citizens of Nisavsky County, first of all, the citizens of Alexinac, the citizens of Srlig and other municipalities in Nisava County, as well as all municipalities in Serbia, because, indeed, what are these people going to do? Finally, Madam Minister, I really appreciate your loyalty to the business you are currently in, but please take a brave step in this direction, withdraw this law and it will be a big step for the Serbian judiciary and a big step for all those who live in small towns in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9362	Here you go, Mr. Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9363	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Riza Halimi is another proof of the cutting and destruction of the judicial network. As an SRS MP, no matter what MP, who has tabled an amendment to this poor bill, I support the amendment of counterpart Riza Halimi, who says - in Article 3(1). The bill adds a new point 35, which reads: "The primary court in Presevo, for the territory of the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, with the judicial unit in Bujanovac". So far, point 5. The bill is amended and said: "The main court in Vranje, for the territory of the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Vladikin Han, Surdulica, Trgovište and Vranje, with the judicial unit in Bosilegrad, Vladicin Han and Surdulica". What's very important is to point out that we're coming here in a dilemma whether it's really important where the territorial court is located, when the courts aren't doing their job properly. Through proposals and through sets of judicial, anti-corruption, or European laws, as the position wishes to say, we have brought forth a series of irregularities that can indicate that neither in the distance nor near, nor in the head of the Serbian country, the judges and the judiciary can always do their job properly. We have now come to a proposal for a law that carries out a continuation of lustration and a selective choice of those judges who are partyly obedient. By cutting the court network, we come to a question – what will happen to the judges who worked in these basic courts? Now there will be reduced judicial units. What they'll do after this job, i.e. How will the government provide them, since it's shut down their workplace. In order for the selection to apply equally to all judges, I will only remind myself that the minister of the previous assembly, Petrovic, was head of the government's anti-corruption committee in Serbia, that he participated and engaged in the internal control of the justice ministry in 2007, which had carried out 14 judicial controls throughout Serbia and that in all controlled entities it was established, we can say freely, by mixing wide-ranging proportions. In addition to the question – who controls the chaos in the judiciary, the more important question is – how is this chaos controlled and what is the epilogue of every control? I think that this is much less known to citizens, given that Minister Petrovic led this. The law requires an internal controller to report the mechanic to the competent authorities. This obligation arises from Article 75. The law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia, which states that an application for the initiation of the procedure under Article 47 of this Law is submitted by internal controllers. Now we're going to ask a question of purpose and what do we want to get out of all this? It is important to highlight the fact that the internal controllers of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, after each procedure, have been followed by ex post controls with budgetary users, courts and prosecutors, were under obligation, under their official duty, to submit appropriate reports to the competent authorities. According to the findings of internal controllers, there was material in all 14 authorities controlled to submit appropriate reports after the controls were carried out. Simply, by breaking other regulations, the provisions of the Budgetary System Act have been violated, since, mainly, payment from the budget is made in an illegal manner, in smaller or larger amounts than allowed. In individuals, payments were made without legal basis. These consequences of the interference and non-intentional spending of the budgetary resources of the Courts and Prosecutors have resulted in violations of the Law on Court Orders, the Law on Court Taxes, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Accounting and Audit, the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services, as well as violations of various regulations and regulations. Because of that, we only ask two of those three basic questions. Did the Ministry of Justice, or the Group for Oversight and Internal Control, file any violations or criminal charges against the relevant persons in controlled entities after the controls were carried out in the judicial bodies during 2007? If so, how many such applications have been filed against which persons and bodies have they been filed against? If applications have not been submitted after the controls have been carried out, for what reasons have they not been submitted? Ministers, Mrs. Malovic, of all this I have cited, I have an example from the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade, when Judge Gordana Vasic gave the order, on 14.11., which she has ordered the opt-outs to be fees for those documents, it is a confirmation of the agreement on mutual relations between the committee and the applicant of the electoral list, accounting and charging as if it were a taxi for over-the-counter contracts that are not defined, in accordance with heading 13, paragraph 1 and paragraph 5. Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees. I have here the number of the official messenger in which she asks that the tax be paid of 1,332 dinars. You well know, as a good lawyer, that this fee is paid by a special regulation, that the regulation is passed by the Ministry of Justice, that it is precisely defined by the Law on Local Elections, Article 47. Here, I have also brought a rule on the fee for the signing and mutual relations contracts, in which Article 2 says – for the overing of the signing of the applicant of the electoral list for the committee, or the contract of mutual relations, a fee of 150 dinars is paid. We wrote a letter to Judge Gordani Vasic, who is not in charge of the Shater Service, and she annulled her decision because she did not comply with the Law on Local Elections, but in accordance with the Tax Act. What's important, too, is that we refused to pay those orders, and when we got the order... If the time is up, I'll proceed with the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9364	On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9365	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to Article 4, is found in the article, or in the amendment itself, to Article 3 which I have submitted and which I have asked to continue to remain that network of courts that exist. I believe that this solution has proved to be good and there is no reason to change. I don't know how many times I've talked about the most negative consequences if this law comes to life. I will do it now, because I believe that Mrs Malovic has so far understood the weight of our words and is seriously considering withdrawing this proposal. With the amendment, I tried to intervene so that the solution provided for Belgrade would not be accepted. I don't think there's any basis for it to come to life. For days, we have been listening to a very reasoned debate of the MPs, who made their remarks on the network of courts, and I think that in the best way I will do it if I talk about this amendment concerning the Supreme Court in Belgrade. I will in the simplest way point out why this solution for Belgrade should not be acceptable. There are 17 municipalities in Belgrade, there are two million people, and this bill was predicted by only two basic courts. One for the city and another basic court for suburban settlements. By who knows which time I refer the question and I really want Mrs Malovic to answer me – what criteria did the Ministry of Justice have when it proposed such a solution? It is not clear to me and to all MPs who have spoken about a solution to Belgrade, I cannot understand that this question, which I am asking for who knows which time, has not been properly answered. Many times I've talked about the situation in Belgrade's judiciary. I've talked many times about if this concept of law comes to life, we'll have chaos in the Belgrade judiciary. I have also talked many times about the fact that so far working in the Belgrade judiciary has been very burdened by a huge number of cases, the overbooking of all courts. In the clearest way, I will present the data for each of the five municipal courts as many as there are now in Belgrade. In the First Municipal Court, which is the largest in Belgrade, there are 335 employees – 72 judges and close to 17,000 cases. In the Second Municipal Court – 351 employees, 62 judges and 34,000 cases at work. Here I have to say that 17,000 cases go to the land book, since the Second Court is a land and book court, which is responsible for the territory of the whole of Belgrade, but this is what it looks like in the departments. The litigation and labour disputes have 10,000 cases, investigation – 3,500, guilt – 3,400, abandonment – 700, outsider – 500 and land book – 17,000. In the Third Court, we have 171 employees, 41 judges and 12,000 cases. In the Fourth Court – 200 employees, 62 judges. In the Fifth Court – 160 employees, 48 judges. Do you think the first basic court, which should only apply to the territory of the city, without suburban settlements, can receive 1200 employees, 284 judges and over 100,000 cases? I've told you before that it's impossible and that you only predicted it for one reason – that in a painless way you would fire a huge number of workers and that, under the pretext of re-election, you would re-fire a huge number of judges. Even if that is not your intention, I will explain on a more classic case what the Belgrade judiciary should look like to this solution. A few days ago I told you and advised you to build a new Empire State Building. That's what I'm saying right now, I'm seriously saying this. I believe that a building that should receive so many employees, so many judges and more than 100,000 cases, does not exist on Belgrade's territory, but does not exist on the Balkan territory, not all over Europe. Just imagine working in a court of law that should have 300 judges. Just imagine that each of these judges should have one courtroom. Let's be rational, so let's say one courtroom is shared by two judges. Each of them should be provided with one cabinet, or one for two judges. Imagine the situation that you should place in the office 100,000 items. What's it supposed to look like? How many squares does it take to have an office like that? Do we even have such rooms on Belgrade territory? I've been asking a question many times, and I really think it's high time I got an answer to the question of where the First Court seat is going to be, where will the seat of the Second Court be? According to the amendment I filed, I believe you do not know where the seat of the High Court will be. This amendment is accompanied by the thread I had in mind when I proposed an amendment to Article 3 of this bill, which provides for the current network of courts to remain unchanged. The main objective of this amendment is to establish that the Supreme Court in Belgrade applies to the area of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth basic courts. I will not speak on purpose again, because I have said several times that this bill will not cut costs, that this bill will directly participate in the death of many places in Serbia, that this bill will make you participate in the demarcation of border areas. I'm also not going to say that the members of the national minorities with this bill will, by the way, give up using their native language, for the reason I spoke several times before today's address. I'm not going to talk about this bill that you're going to participate in the huge layoff of Belgrade's judiciary workers, but I can't say that the concept provided for Belgrade's judiciary is the most drastic and the worst. In all other courts, you did not appreciate the size and depravity of the municipality itself, but in the Belgrade judiciary you did not appreciate what the notor facts are, that it is the capital, which has two million inhabitants, which has 17 municipalities and that in the Belgrade judiciary you have examples where the judge can receive 90 new cases in the work within a month, which is nowhere, in any court in Serbia. As far as I'm concerned, I've told you many times, but I think we've convinced you completely and completely what you need to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9366	Mr. Milan Avramovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9367	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Belgrade, we cannot remain unarranged, we cannot meet the public, and the minister, with this situation in the Belgrade District Court, when it comes to judges who are bringing cases under lawsuits filed by SRS committees from all municipalities in Belgrade, as well as other judges, who are placed in the same basket with those who are not doing the job properly. So, if the Belgrade District Court were to be honored, i.e. Some judges, or two judicial councils, whose names I'm going to read, to do the job right, I think the labels of the other judges would be far cleaner and clearer. A few days ago, I warned the minister from this assembly booth, alerted the Society of Judges and the Judicial Council, which does not work according to a code that must be respected, I warned all those who thought the SRS MPs had put in the same situation, i.e. in the same basket of all judges. If the ministry wants to deal with crime in Serbia, we call on them to deal first with criminals sitting in the Belgrade District Court. I'm deliberately saying, criminals, I'm going to argue that in my presentation. I remind you that the SRS, November 17th and 19th of this year, filed criminal charges against six judges of the District Court in Belgrade. I have to read the names and last names, no matter how much it bothers some, for the other judges of honor. These are judges Mirjana Arangelovic, Mirjana Ridjski, Dusica Marinkovic, which is one of the judicial councils, and the judges of the other are Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skorić and Zivana Djukanovic. Reports have been made for the conduct of a felony violation of the law by the judges in Article 360. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, in connection with the criminal part of the infringement of the equality referred to in Article 128. The criminal code, both in co-execution and in the extended duration, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(1)(b) of the Code. 33rd and 61st. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. Afterwards, several criminal charges have been filed and with each new verdict, the anti-candidate, with every new criminal offence, the SRS will file a new addition of criminal charges against these judges, given that after reporting from this pay phone, from which we have notified the public of the filing of these criminal charges, a highly inappropriate and unprofessional reaction by the Society of Judges, as well as the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, which I will now quote to you. So, I will quote to you a statement from the Society of Judges: "Some MPs, their performances, deliberately comment on judicial decisions, the amount of innuendo and false information, insult and exert direct pressure on judges who act in electoral and other court cases and create an atmosphere of lynch." Imagine that statement. This reaction by the Serbian Judges' Society is inappropriate, because it followed without any insight into the facts or judgments brought by the suspected judges. That is why the SRS will hand over the criminal charges filed, as well as the convictions of the six suspects of the District Court in Belgrade, to the President of the District Court, the Supreme Court of Serbia, the district public prosecutor and the Association of Serbian Judges. We expect the Supreme Court to respond as soon as possible to the SRS' request for an emergency review of the verdicts made. From the District Court and the district attorney, we expect them to prevent violations, further criminal acts by these judges, because from the day these criminal charges were made, to this day, 15 other anti-legislative verdicts have been passed, which in the most harsh way are trampled on by the electoral will of citizens and deny the rights that the SRS won in the 11 May elections. We expect the Association of Judges of Serbia to fence these six judges after seeing these verdicts. I point out once again that they are criminals, because as a MP, I would never deplore anyone, but I keep repeating and repeat the accusations that these people are criminals and break the law as long as they don't answer for it, and they'll answer eventually. The society of Serbian judges is obliged to fence from criminals in their own ranks, above all, because of a large number of judges who are honorably and legally performing their duties, who are sometimes hit by a small number of criminals, who are currently the highest legal act, Boris Tadic's will. In a completely inappropriate way, Mrs Malovic and the Ministry of Justice, who, instead of urgating at the District Public Prosecutor's Office, acted as soon as possible to prosecute these criminal charges and to stand in the way of violations of the law, also issued a statement supporting the Association of Judges of Serbia, or their statement, and asked the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, above all, to examine whether there are elements of criminal acts in the SRS MPs' statements for the Assembly, that I am not mistaken, and that – endangering the safety of judicial officials. This, Mrs Malovic, shows, unfortunately, that even those who wrote this statement, I have read it before from this assembly speaker, at the Ministry of Justice, and not even you, Mrs Malovic, who accepted this statement, at the request of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, i.e. me, you did not fence from that statement. That's why we can conclude that those who wrote this statement have absolutely no knowledge of the law. It is a shame that anyone, even a law school student, knows this, calls on the district attorney to determine whether there are elements of a crime that are not prescribed by the Serbian Criminal Code and which do not exist in Serbian legislation. I read to you the Criminal Code of Serbia, but what you called for in this statement says that whoever wrote it doesn't have any legal knowledge. This way, I would like to inform you, Mrs Malovic, that the crime of jeopardising the safety of judicial holders does not exist. A special criminal application by the SRS will be filed against the Council of the District Court in Belgrade and Judges Mirjana Arangelovic, Mirjana Ridjski and Dusica Marinkovic, because a verdict has not yet been reached following an appeal by the SRS board of directors from Zemun. So, complaints were filed on November 26th, at 8:45 p.m. The pre-inclusive legal deadline for the County Court's ruling on these appeals is 48 hours. It's been more than eight days since we got here. So, the pre-inclusive legal deadline, which cannot be breached, has passed more than four times, despite numerous emergencyes by the same council members, and the verdicts have not yet been passed. This shows that there is no end to haughtiness and passion, on the one hand, the Boris Tadic regime, and, on the other hand, these judges of the District Court in Belgrade, which serve the regime to carry out the dirtiest jobs and to trample the electoral will of citizens. So let me just get this straight. The Serbian Radical Party has decided to oppose this regime, the dictatorial and treasonous regime of Boris Tadic, it is important that I mention it, and that they are more ossious and brutal in trampling the Constitution, the law and the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that our conviction that we must oppose, by all democratic means, and that this regime must be brought down as soon as possible, be stronger.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-05-0.u9368	On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) I, too, think we'll finish tonight and continue our work not tomorrow, but Monday, at 10 o'clock. But if you guys have any idea it's gonna be on Sunday and we make a fair deal... Monday, 10:00. Thank you for your cooperation.
