ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9002	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, namely that we have more than one third of the MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of the Courts and Public Prosecutors (exist in particular) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Balint Pastor, and then Mrs Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9003	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I would also like to direct from this place, until it is too late, an appeal to the Government, not to refer to the assembly procedure of the draft budget that is anti-constitutional. We have indicated in previous days that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected in general, that it must be respected, among other things, and Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says -- the AP Vojvodina budget is at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have to say with the SVM, he has no intention of voting against Serbia's budget. The SVM has no intention of destroying the government. It is important for us to abolish visas for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 and to make Serbia a candidate for EU membership. These two goals can only be achieved if the government is stable and if we don't lose a year on a new pre-election campaign, on new elections, on the formation of a new government. For these reasons, we want to be a factor of stability in the ruling coalition. Also, from this place I want to repeat, we are not able to vote for a budget that is anti-constitutional. For this reason, I appeal to the Government to respect the Constitution. The SVM indicated that this constitution is harmful to Serbia, that it is harmful to Vojvodina, but it is valid and that is why we respect it. All MPs and all ministers, most likely, respect this constitution, but if we respect the Constitution, then let us respect every member of the Constitution and let us not think in a way that only a certain provision should be respected, that is, certain parts of the Constitution. That is why I urge the Government to refer the budget to the assembly procedure, as soon as possible, which provides at least 7% for Vojvodina. I would once again like to say, and from this point on, to Mr Cvetkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, that he does not repeat statements that he does not write in the Constitution what sources he needs to provide 7% for Vojvodina. Of course, Serbia's budget needs to provide 7% for Vojvodina. We're not saying he's a member of 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is just some kind of non-binding recommendation for the government and for the Serbian Parliament, and Vojvodina, unfortunately, has no original income and cannot be provided 7% of other revenues, not from the budget reserve, but exclusively from the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. I hope the government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to submit a draft budget that is in line with the Constitution, which respects Vojvodina, which respects the interests of Vojvodina and that the SVM will be able to vote in favour of the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9004	Your suggestion that it is necessary to respect the Constitution, as a basic legal act of this country, will be passed on to the Government. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9005	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, please, that, pursuant to Article 226, immediately, you are taking certain activities relating to the Ministry of Justice, here is Ms. Malovic, and the Ministry of Police, and that you are urgently asking for information – what is the reason for the disturbance of the Darko Mladic family? There is, right now, an intervention team, searching Mr. Dark Mladic's house, harassing his family, which is absolutely pointless, given the fact that the house has been under surveillance and police surveillance for over 24 hours now. It's impossible that it could happen there or anyone could come without the police recording it or not registering it. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, the MP and head of our parliamentary group, is just at the house of Mr. Dark Mladic, that there, as a citizen, attends the search because, by law, so much must be provided by the authorities. I warn you that if this pointless action is not immediately terminated, all the MPs of the SRS will go to Darko Mladic's house and we will invite citizens of Belgrade to join us, because we must protect the rights of all citizens, which the authorities in Serbia probably do not intend. Since you can't, apparently, find Ratko Mladic, then maybe you'll take Darka Mladic to The Hague, take him there to trial instead of his father. Besides, it's the principle that Americans applied in Iraq, and since you're copying them, it's possible you're going to do something like that. It is possible that you, Mrs Malovic, have already sharpened the pen for the extradition of Ratko Mladic, but since you cannot find it, you must not disturb the Darko Mladic family, who cannot be responsible for anything, for which you, possibly, accuse his father, who, in our opinion, also has no responsibility. In any case, the Darko Mladic family must not suffer what it has suffered today and in recent days, in recent months, etc. I apologize for the weather, just one more sentence. You saw this morning in all the printed media that Olga Kavran, a spokesman for The Hague tribunal, says that not even Brammertz, nor anyone from The Hague tribunal asked to break the series "My Cousin from the Village" broadcast on RTS, because it reminds someone of Ratko Mladic and the actions carried out by the authorities of the MUP, BIA, CIA, who knows who everyone in Serbia. You even made that up, even the government invented that The Hague is looking for an end to that series, and obviously, if we got that information today, it's not true. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I urge you once again to ask the authorities to immediately stop the lawless harassment of the Darko Mladic family. Otherwise, we also inform Serbian citizens that this is happening. If you don't stop it quickly, we will invite them to come along and protest peacefully in front of the house of Dark Mladic against this kind of government, this kind of behavior, harassment and harassment of free citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9006	Your question, suggestions and requests will be forwarded and MPs will be informed of all events. I can't say exactly the time limit, as soon as we get the information, we'll go straight to the information method, which, however, has a certain procedure. Mr. Krasic reported to the Rules of Procedure, so Mr. Buha, also, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9007	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I call on Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I don't know what we people's messengers have sinned so much that you take care of the work of the National Assembly. I don't know if you've noticed, but if you haven't noticed, then I have to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, because of this kind of work of the National Assembly, it shouldn't surprise us what's happening on the streets. It is now one of the Mladic family members. Dear citizens, tomorrow you'll be, perhaps, the very ones who follow this transmission. Why? Because we have a BIA that's been ripped off, that no one can control. I will today, if I'm in a position to explain to you what the operations of BIA are called "Zumbul" and "Testis"; it's another title for another action. But to continue by one fine tradition, I will deliver this letter to Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, asking to copy it into 250 copies, for all MPs, and for media representatives – 21 pieces will be for media representatives. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps BIA and these attacks and you, in your apartment, are looking for Mladic, Petrovic, Jankovic, it doesn't matter who, just to cover up, among other things, and a major affair in the Republic of Serbia's Building Directorate. I'm just going to quote one piece of the letter, which was sent by the employees, they have to speak anonymously, because the BIA is everywhere. Remember that sentence from yesterday. As long as there's drugs on the streets of Serbia, the main dealer is BIA, because she didn't stop it. Now let's see what's been going on in that construction directorate ever since it came in line with DS, a certain Grujic. He told his close associates that he must give money to the DS and the party, because the party's president, Mr Tadic, must give the ministers 4,000 euros in cash. There's a lot of talk about it in the towers. Still, housing, monter, affair after affair. I'm handing this over, they sent me evidence for all of this. Let's say, the rent-a-carrying contract. I don't know if this is true and it would be better if BIA, Mia, CIA, dia and others hiding behind such names, such as "zumbula" or "testis", would check this out and focus on the fight against crime, not on breaking into this Mr. Mladic's house, and tomorrow, the citizens of Serbia, and your apartments will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9008	Mr. Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to you under Rule 226 of our Rules of Procedure and I'm asking for information from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Civil Protection. In this case, it is an enormous violation of human rights because certain state authorities, by someone's order, have entered the house, the facility in which Darko Mladic, the son of Ratko Mladic, lives. We witnessed, two months ago, a similar invasion of a business company, "Vujic" Valjevo, which was also linked in business terms to the company and company owned by Darko Mladic. Who in our society has the right to violate fundamental human rights, the right to work, the right to normal business and the functioning of a business? Who has the right to enter into a business relationship between two business partners? Nobody. You can, the current government can do it. Here is the minister of justice, and I call on the minister of justice to come out and explain to the public what is going on. This is an enormous violation of human rights, a man working normally, a normal business; a state forbids him to work normally and make income and profit from his business. What's the basis, why is he defending normal business? It's a violation of the Constitution. You need to get out here to say on what grounds, the Justice Minister needs to know, there's a service, there's a state-owned institution, you need to get that information, get out here, tell the public what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9010	National MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will, in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly, try to help, above all, the President of the Assembly, and then intend the SRS to get some information. The president of the assembly said that the stenographic notes of Mrs Radeta's presentation, I suppose, and Mr. Buha, will be sent to the government, that today, or when they are ready, we will get information about what is going on in the Darka Mladic case. Personally, I think you're the most competent person to give us all the information we need for such a thing. I think you too could put yourself in the position of Parliament, help, first of all, the presidents, get out and tell this speaker what it is, which is why this time is the target of Mr Darko Mladic's interest in the state authorities. As Mr. Buha said earlier, a month ago, a month and a half ago, the competent state authorities, after which they were very inconclusively giving statements, entered into the family house, into the Vujic brothers' company, or the Vujic family firm, searched, harassed the family, questioned and brought down the business and any other reputation of that family and these companies, or at least, was their intention, and the explanation was that they knew that Ratko Mladic was not there, but that due to certain contacts they had to do so. It seems to me that it is contrary to your intentions and intensities that this country, in one hundred years' time, is being introduced into the EU, that is not in line with European standards, is not in line with the elemental human and all other rights. I think that because of this, precisely, you who are sitting here as a representative of the government, as a minister of justice, you could shorten all this story, go out and tell us why the state has brutally collapsed on people who may not have been able to choose their parents, who are the children of Ratko Mladic, and because the sons or daughters of Ratko Mladic are, among other things, proud, but are not obliged to, because they are not part of the concept that comes out of Andric's wedding, to be harassed, humiliated and brutally brought into an awkward and unpleasant situation. Be kind, come out and tell us why Darko Mladic is under the torture of the justice ministry and the competent state authorities in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9012	Mr. Markovic, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9013	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, several months ago, Serbian citizens cannot be safe in their homes, on the street or anywhere. Art. 225 and 226. Now that you've called me, Mr. Milivoevich, I'm going to do a little digression, just to say a few things. It seems that in secret, the government's reconstruction was carried out, because the ideologist of the DS sat down in the first bench and it looks like he became minister of something, and since we have a minister of 'nothing', it's going to be some kind of show. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you, I remind the citizens of Serbia that a year and a half ago the entire street is blocked where Mr. Dark Mladic's house, all houses searched, houses of MPs, houses of everyone. They were looking for something. Mladic's war could not be sought there, given that the whole area is under constant surveillance by the MUP. A house was searched two days ago, i.e. additional harassment of the Karadzic family was carried out. They've also been looking for, brother-in-law, Ratko Mladic. Don't be surprised when special forces come to your house, when they break down your door and come in looking for Ratko Mladic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems this government has made a promise to Brammertz, regardless of what he's asked for. It seems that this is now a special treatment for Serbian citizens to prove to him that something is being done. So Orwella, 1984, came to Serbia a long time ago. Like all MPs of the SRS, I demand from the MUP, from the Ministry of Justice, from you, Mrs Malovic, to inform the MPs and the public urgently – what is the intervention unit looking for at the house of Darka Mladic? Won't the interrogation process include his underage, more specifically, two-year-old son? Will you ask him where his grandfather is too? If you're not able to protect the citizens, you can't harass them anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9014	MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9015	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which you are violating, are required to respect the Constitution, the law and make sure that what exists in this country as the Constitution, the law, is applied. I need to draw your attention that yesterday, in your absence, I was talking about state terrorism. Today they immediately set out to prove it. Yesterday, I announced what will happen, thanks to Operation Testis, led by Miki Rakic, head of cabinet Boris Tadic, a variant of pressure on the Ratko Mladic family. Although this country has long been saying that Ratko Mladic is not here, it is being pressured against his son, his business partners. You should include yourself and protect his human rights, because, a little bit, so let the unbalanced and some other unit, as an organized group of bandits, come to Mladic's house tomorrow to your house, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'd remind you that it's much better to point that special unit somewhere else. There is evidence here of how the DS election campaign was financed and how who paid for the hands of 71,328,636 dinars; other documentation – at hand is 90 and some million; all the media and all the agencies that helped DS make another fraud. Protect Darko Mladic from this shagging. It is the same thing that was done over the family of Radovan Karadzic, in the Palace, with the aim of forcing Ratko Mladic mentally to do something, because the public, who will go through the media, who you control, will call him – surrender, do not let your family get hurt. Protect the human rights of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Control this BIA, Nikita, Rakic, Vukadinović and the others. They went outside the framework of the law and the Constitution. Let's stop that primitive thing. The vote from Bodrum, the vote from Thessaloniki, the arrest of 13,000 people, it's anti-civilization behavior. We know who the protagonist is. As of January 25, 2001 (bravo, young man, you're right, young man) this primitiveism has taken place – in a nice suit, a vote from Bodrum, a vote from Thessaloniki. Time's just coming. Well done, young man.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9016	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9017	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, I call on you. 101, 103 and 104. Please state, or I ask that in the day of the vote, we be told that Mr Krasic has seriously injured the Rules of Procedure. He brought forth a bunch of lies. He's accusing people. He calls for resistance to law enforcement by the competent state authorities, which is a serious violation of both the Constitution and the law. He uses the congregation pay phone for that. Please, one more thing, we've had more than a proper relationship with the need to show up and things that don't concern the agenda. Madam President, please, from now on, we have strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, because the gentleman's agreement requires two sides. We have one side that for days, hours listens to the most pointless subjects, which have nothing to do with anyone who doesn't care about anyone in this country, all because someone claims that this country isn't represented enough, and 20 hours a day is on the state television channel. You're the same, until eight o'clock in the evening, and from 10 o'clock in the evening, it's their boss. It's a little too much. It can't be like that. It's not democracy. You will not demonstrate such democracy here. I pray that in the day of the vote, we will declare that Mr Krasic has violated the Rules of Procedure most harshly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9018	Your proposal will be on the agenda. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, Vice-President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9019	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Colundjia, in order to ask for someone to give the measure of caution, because someone has broken the Rules of Procedure, you have to say what someone said, and not to speak in general, you accuse, you present certain facts, etc. Mr. Krasic is known for being a man who always and in every place speaks at the same time. When he goes to court, as was the case in the private service of Mladjan Dinkic against him, he brings 10,000 sides of Dinkic's crime, which, of course, is an extension of your criminal activity, and then his immunity is established, Mladjan Dinkic, and he flees the trial, so Mr Krasic invites Mr Batic as one of the witnesses. You are replacing the thesis and you want to tell the citizens of Serbia who are watching the direct transmission of the Assembly sessions that we are allegedly obstructing Parliament's session, which is not true. Let's ask you something about the seats of these areas of courts and public prosecutors, you, as Hope Kolundji, have no idea. To question you anything from a set of judicial laws, you have no idea, ma'am, you don't. You're not in the O.R. You're having lunch three times a day, five times a day, you're out. You're only coming back when you have to say your head hurts, you've had enough radicals. Not that it's not enough for 20, but 25 hours for Serbia to cry out for Serbian radicals, the whole free Serbia cry out. The whole free Serbia is crying out for the return of Dr Vojislav Seselj. In order for that not to happen to Darko Mladic and his family, we will speak, in line with what is the country's highest legal act, which are, above all, members of the Constitution guaranteeing the security and freedom of all citizens of Serbia. To remind you that in 2001, when you kidnapped, and later, The Hague killed Slobodan Milosevic, you were distracting us in front of the presidency building with the kidnapping of property, the jeep of the Serbian Radical Party, and the moment we defended our property, you directed the faces of the boys on the head to arrest Slobodan Milosevic. Since Mr Dragan Todorovic, president of our parliamentary group, is already at the house of Darka Mladic, we tell you – stop harassing these people, Darka Mladic, all members of the family of the heroic and famous General Ratko Mladic. You'll never catch him. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, be assured that we are able, you have well noticed, that at all times we will prevent you from distracting the people here while criminals are robbing the state, until you explain to us where Kristo is, while still holding Dinkic in government, while you are taking mandates with Serbian radicals and, at the same time, harassing Serbian patriots and citizens. Where were you, Nado Kolundzija, when Ratko Mladic, the father of Darko Mladic, defended Serbian countries? (President: Time. Where have you been? In a mouse hole? It won't work that way. Serbia will either be a free and patriotic country, and we will end up fighting to get you out of the political scene. You traitors don't have what to look for and to spill your stupidity on us and distract this people, while he chokes in debt and lives hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9020	Mrs. Verica Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9021	I'm sorry, that's the deal you called. I appeal to article 101, and I pray that in the day of the vote, because of the insults given to me personally, because I believe that lies have been made, lies about me, because the lady who made those lies and lies has the right to not know, but everyone can assess the knowledge of the other to the limits of her own knowledge, and so I think that she is unable to do so, so I find it offensive and demand that in the day of the vote we make it clear that Natasha Jovanovic has hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9022	Your proposal will be appreciated. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9023	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from an article. 101st and 104th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You see how Mrs. Hope Kolundji just said she had the advantage, because it's also a gentleman's agreement, and no one was against it. That's the deal. As for what you are constantly trying to picture to the public – that you are gentlemen, so you allow the MPs of the SRS to exercise their right to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is not so, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, we use our right, you have not given us anything. We are MPs and we are talking, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, about topics that are very interesting to the citizens of Serbia. Mrs Nada Kolundzija, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, threatened the MPs in her first announcement. If you think I'm exaggerating, take a stenogram and read what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said when she first spoke. It bothers you, Mrs. Kolundjia, to transfer. Is this an announcement that you may no longer be transferring sessions of the Assembly? In particular, it is your democracy, the delayed transfer of the trial to Vojislav Seselj from The Hague. Do you know that a million and 200,000 people signed a petition and handed it over to the director, Mr. Tijanic, before the decision was made to transfer the trial of Vojislav Seselj from The Hague? It bothers you. The signatures of a million and 200,000 Serbian citizens, who signed the petition, bother you. If it bothers you, you change the channel, but I haven't noticed anything about you changing the channel, you often comment on what you were looking at at the night of the transmission. Mrs. Kolundjia, you say we distract citizens and talk about things that are of no interest to anyone in Serbia. I am not sure that the vast majority of Serbian citizens are not interested in corruption and crime at the top of the government, that Serbian citizens are not interested in the economic crisis and social misery that the DOS has brought us to, that Serbian citizens are not interested in human rights and freedoms which, as you and I enjoy, should also enjoy Darko Mladic. I don't see what the difference is, and my late father's name is Ratko, and his name is Ratko. Is that, perhaps, a reason for Bia to come to my apartment to search and who knows what to do, to harass my family? We insist on respecting the fundamental human rights and freedoms of every citizen of Serbia. Darko Mladic is a Serbian citizen and must enjoy those rights and freedoms. If you think you should arrest him, put him against the wall... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And to kill him because his father is famous General Ratko Mladic, then it's your political commitment, but it won't be possible either, Mrs. Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9024	MP Sreto Peric. Hope, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9025	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I have no idea that I have something against the television transmission of this House's work, because I think you'll lose those six votes in Vranjska Banja if you continue like this. What we are, for a reason, and what citizens expect and ask of us, is to prevent you from boycotting, breaking up the National Assembly, making it impossible for us to do the job we are here for. That's what's not possible. To prove to you that you're wrong and that what you're doing, mostly, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well, please don't count my time right now because I want to quote the members of the Rules of Procedure, because of the citizens. I know you know you're deliberately violating the Rules of Procedure. Article 100: "To the People's MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker." So it's that any debate can be interrupted if someone asks for a word in the Rules of Procedure. "The MP is obliged to state which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is injured, that it quotes and explains what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is... "So, what does the injury consist of? It can't be an injury for you to come out and say -- I want to inform the citizens of Serbia that you have a problem, 'cause you can speak for the longest three minutes, which doesn't account for the time needed to quote the Rules of Procedure. "The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote." Article 101: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another Parliament group," which you do all the time, 'quoting his name, last name or function', which you also do, 'that is to say, 'the misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to a replica. If offensive expressions refer to the MP's group, which you do all the time, ''or 'the political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group''', we are constantly victims of it, 'in the name of the parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group has the right to reply. The decision on cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be taken by the President of the National Assembly. The replica can't last longer than three minutes. Article 102: 'No one shall approach the speaker until the President of the National Assembly allows it. No one can speak at the assembly session before they ask and receive word from the president of the National Assembly. We haven't had cases like this often. That's why we had an article 103 that you regularly violated: "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda." There's a set of judicial laws on the agenda. "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech." So the fact that you're banging into the bench, that you can't stand it here, is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure, because the responsibility for order in the Hall is borne by all the MPs. Members of 225 and 226, most often referred to and thereby misused by the Rules of Procedure. I don't think so. Article 225 is located in a work called 'The Rights and responsibilities of Members of the People's Parliaments', and in no way are they related to a procedure to which it may be indicated if it is injured and, based on the injured procedure, decisions are made which would not be valid. So Article 225 says, "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the function of the MP." You have the right to be informed, you have the right to ask all the congregation services for everything you need to ask. That's not a question for the tide, that's a question for which you get the right to answer the line. So there's no dispute. "For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly's section." I quote the Rules of Procedure. I just read to you that the time I use to quote the Rules of Procedure doesn't count at the time of three minutes that I have. Article 226. "The MP has the right to ask for a notice and an explanation from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP." That's not what you do on the tide. You can ask the government a question on the tide only when we have a session with government issues. Everything else, gentlemen, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9026	Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, if your life depended on Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija, she would certainly be ready to turn off your oxygen hose. It's a personification of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9028	Mr. Peric, please take care of the way you express yourself. This really isn't right. I'll start making warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9029	Allow me. Of course there are MPs on this side who advocate what the SRS MPs do, but I have something else to tell you, Mrs. Kolundjia. You read the Rules of Procedure very well. You said the MPs were banging on the bench. Some of the SRS MPs may be banging on the bench, but you and these behind are banging on the Serbian citizens' electoral will, because, since September, you have violated the most direct, in the harshest way, electoral will of Serbia's citizens. If you hadn't done it, a completely different situation would have been. Madam President, you have a very delicate role to play. It's not easy for you, but, in the election of president of the National Assembly, you had to know what you were facing. By the way, I call for article 100 with regard to Article 27 and Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure, but I must remind you that you, the government of the Serbian State, violates the terms of the Rules of Procedure, the terms of the Constitution. In our constitution, which we adopted the way it was adopted, there is one part that regulates human and minority rights and freedoms. Many of the 63 members are directly applied. There is no need to pass laws to apply them, and two of them are also the freedom of movement of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the inviolability of the apartment. What do you want to accomplish with this? You want to intimidate the citizens, which you have done continuously since 2000, to create fear. You promised a better life, more jobs, a visa-free trip, and you brought in and produced fear. The BIA will start to control, I think, and making marriages in Serbia, and giving birth, because we have a problem with the white plague. First, you started to control the business of the company in Serbia and you were in Valjevo, in the company "Brothers Vujic", and now you control Darka Mladic, but there is no problem here as to who is last name. I believe and argue, a large number of Serbian and Serbian citizens in Republika Srpska, in Republika Srpska, would be proud to have Mladic's last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9030	Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9031	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Articles 101, 103 and 104, and I ask that in the day of the vote, we be made clear that Mr. Peric blatantly violated the Rules of Procedure and insulted me. Unlike your policy, I haven't risked a single life with my own policy, I haven't lost a square mile of Serbian territory, no refugees because of my policy had to leave their house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9032	Gentlemen, 20 have been reported to be working under the Rules of Procedure. We'll have to consult. I'll consult with the heads of Parliament at 11.10 p.m., and then we'll continue our work at 11.40 p.m. You've asked me some questions to prepare the answers to. Please show an elementary understanding of our cooperation, so we can work. [[After break, 11,40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. He has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment... According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. What about the others? We took a break, and after each break, we continue to work on the amendment. The break was made with a tendency to continue our work on the agenda. Besides, there's no one reported in the O.R. No, no, I'm waiting for them, really. We're continuing our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you're saying, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, is that a break has been made and that means that we are continuing on the amendments, it's simply not true. You cannot ignore the reports of the MPs, no matter how much they apply. Now I'm going to quote a few members of the Rules of Procedure to explain, as a lawyer, what our Rules of Procedure actually says. Please take care of the quote. Article 27 says: "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. "So it is obvious that this Article 27, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, commits you to certain matters, first of all, to the respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to the respect of the MPs, when MPs want to make certain views, that is, on the basis of the Constitution and this Rules of Procedure, of the parliamentary group they represent. You have repeatedly, not just today, but months ago, used Article 85. Now I will quote some of the views of Article 85 of our Rules of Procedure, you have used them quite the opposite of what is stated in the Rules of Procedure: "Sessions of the National Assembly at which the bill proposals, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Resolutions, Recommendations, Decisions, Conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts taken by the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, in the time of 10 to 18 hours, with an interruption of one hour. "Station 2: "The National Assembly decides on draft laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly, in principle, details and in general, in voting days. "Station 3: "The President of the National Assembly sets a day for voting after the debate on all points of the agenda is over. "Station 4, which most often, as well as attitude 5, violates, reads: "Extremely... (President: time has passed. Excuse me. I'm sorry, I'm quoting and I'd like you to take care of it, I've noted. "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly", this is also a quote from the Rules of Procedure, "can decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work after 18 hours, if there are legitimate reasons, which the president declares to the MPs." Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have frequently violated this position of Article 85 on a daily basis. My colleague, Jugovic, I would like you to be patient with me, and I would like to quote the Rules of Procedure. So you have very often violated this member and this position of the Rules of Procedure, because you have never given us an explanation for why you extend your working hours. You can't just say there are legitimate reasons. These legitimate reasons must be specified. I quote item 5: "The President can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours, and only until the debate is completed in principle, in particular, on the starting point of the agenda. "The following position: "The extension of the session after 18 hours is required by the president to inform the National Assembly no later than 16 hours on the day of the session proposed by the extension of work. "For all of this it is necessary to meet the conditions of attitude 4, and these are particularly justified reasons. I have to quote Article 101, because of what Mrs. Hope Kolundji was doing here. The 101st article reads: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP from another Parliament group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to the parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President of the parliamentary group has the right to replication. The decision on cases referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be taken by the President of the National Assembly. The replica can't last longer than three minutes. "You, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, did not apply Article 106, which reads: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly president", it did not do so, "which speaks before he has asked and received a word", nor is it, "who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda", nor is it, "if he interrupts the speaker in the exhibition or throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise threatens the freedom of speech", it is not, but it is "if he expresses the facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons and if he uses curses and offensive expressions". She didn't use swearing words, she did. Furthermore, "if other procedures violate order at the session or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure". Mrs. Kolundji did just that, because she threatened the MPs of the people – she is the majority of the congregation; we will no longer be lined up against the wall and you will shoot us and you will be left alone in the congregation and you can do whatever you want. I'll quote an article. 225 and 226, and I'll explain both members. This is Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. For a more complete notification, official publications of the National Assembly and information and documentation materials on issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session and on other issues from the National Assembly section are regularly provided to MPs." The first and second attitudes can't be related in the way that we're trying to interpret it here. Article 226 is particularly interesting: "The MP has the right to request notices and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP". How can you, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, Mrs Kolundžija or anyone who can tell us that we have no right, all 250 MPs, to report by this member. This member does not suffer a delay. We cannot wait for a day for parliamentary issues, which has never been a few calls by Parliament, and we cannot wait for you to be good-willed, so you can say – now you can talk about it, because it's urgent issues, things that can't wait. We can't wait a month for parliamentary questions, so that we can inform the citizens that today the Darka Mladic family is being harassed, that the apartment of Darka Mladic is being searched, when this is happening now, right now, right now, and from the moment we started talking about it. We have to, and we want to work on the Rules of Procedure. (President: Time. You cannot say that none of the MPs of the SRS are working in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9035	Mrs Radeta, before the beginning of this session, as I normally do, I called on the heads of the parliamentary groups, suggested that the agenda should be a point – parliamentary issues. They refused, estimating that the debate on the government's trust would be the point, and that's why we didn't put it on the agenda. Secondly, you quoted a large number of the Rules of Procedure, which I would particularly like to point out – that the MP is obliged to speak about what is on the agenda, that my obligation, if it does not, is to take appropriate measures – first to warn him that it does not, to take away the word, etc. I remind the MPs that, according to the Rules of Procedure, I will apply these provisions. Please, regardless of what we sometimes have, as you say, a fair agreement to send and certain other messages that are not on the agenda, there is not one Parliament that opens up a debate on amendments, and then – from historical to current events, debates everything. We must cherish the dignity of this House together. Mr Krasic responded to the Rules of Procedure. I sincerely hope that after that we will continue to work on the agenda, or amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9036	I came out to inform you, among other things, that in this part of the session, I will be the last MP from the SRS to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'm taking the opportunity to draw attention to you that a large number of topics that have been updated in the course of this morning, as part of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, concern the agenda as well. Of course, in order not to have problems with some of the parliamentary majority who feel that you should take harsh measures, I must draw attention to you that and the question that we asked you to intervene, as regards this invasion of the house of Darka Mladic, has to do with judicial authorities. We found out off the record that it was done by order of judge, investigative judge Milan Dilparic. I need to draw your attention to the fact that there are a number of documents for this judge on abuses of judicial function, but you don't want to hear it. He ordered that today, December 4th, in the street of Blagoja Parovic 117a, be executed, i.e. to leave authorized officials, the MUP, the War Crimes Detect Service. Darko Mladić turns out to be a war criminal. Please, just a little bit, so Darko Mladic, the topic of newspapers, policies, authorized authorities, who are justifying themselves abroad -- here we are, taking action. What action? To destroy a young life, because no one is allowed to deal with it now? Why would someone do business with him when he's a criminal, organized crime, for war crimes? Is it not a kind of experience, or abuse of the position of authorized officials towards a young man named Mladic? I only warned, during the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, that it was the same situation with the family of Radovan Karadzic. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, did you not forget when the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic was made? The Serbian Radical Party and MPs who were then from the SRS also used this pay phone to draw public attention to something that was going past the law, past the rules. Just to remind you, thanks, first of all, to Dragan Todorovic, who has been presenting data for months, has finally worked out some kind of responsibility, that the state remembers, for example, "Nikola Tesla" and Bojan Krist. Of course, the public expects, as the executive authority shows inability, that MPs act on some issues, and all these issues have settled within this proposed agenda point, where we are talking about judges, prosecutors, whether they are working in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Now, if you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9037	Time. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich. You want a word, then Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9038	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, here's a lighter amendment, as I would say, compared to the proposed law. On behalf of the SPS - JS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3rd point 2 to change and it is said to be established by the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, for the territory of the municipalities of Barajevo, Grocka, Lazarec, Mladenovac, Obrenovac, Sopot and Surcin, with judicial units, in addition to the scheduled ones – Lazarec, Mladenvac, Obrenovac and Sopota. Let me translate this dry language of ours a little bit, as I say, closer to the citizens. The draft law on seats and areas of courts and prosecutors provides for two basic courts to be established in Belgrade: the first basic court, which would cover the area of these 10 city municipalities, the city's part of Belgrade. The characteristic of that court is, in principle, I warned that it was one of the largest courts in the area, which should cover about a million and 700 thousand inhabitants. It's a feature of the Court of First Instance. I appreciate, Madam Minister, the explanation you gave at the time, that it was based on a detailed analysis of everything in Belgrade and that you suggested that two courts be established on this basis. Once again, I remind you to pay good attention to how much it is necessary to specialize in this court, how much it takes for the court, which will have several hundred judges, prosecutors, etc., and all with a view to good organisation, to be efficient, but also to be available to citizens of Belgrade. The second basic court, as provided for by this law, should be established for the territory of the municipalities of Barajevo, Sopot, Mladenovac, Grocka, Lazarec, Obrenovac and Surcin. Speaking of municipalities, I mean city municipalities in Belgrade. I just want to say a few words about it. Not so rarely, when it comes to Belgrade, it is only this central part of the city. Belgrade is a vast territory, with a diameter of about 100km. The territory covered by the Second Basic Court is from the Belgrade Highway - Zagreb, to the municipalities: Ub, Ljig, Arangelovac, Smederjevska Palanka and Smederevo. So the whole move will be covered by the Second Basic Court. One advantage is that, otherwise provided for by the bill, the court also has four judicial units: Lazarec, Mladenovac, Sopot and Obrenovac. As far as we're concerned, when it comes to a judicial unit and when we look at it from the point of view of citizens, they don't care whether it's a court or a judicial unit, because it's going to exercise its rights in the same way. However, we believe that there is a need to establish, predict another judicial unit – for the territory of the Municipality of Grock. So we didn't go to all the municipalities, but to the territory of the Municipality of Grock. Why? Because it's huge territory, because it's almost 100,000 inhabitants. We think that, despite the good organisation of the court, in addition to an effective judiciary, citizens should have the advantage of this reform and reorganization, to bring it closer to them. So, we don't get into the court-order law, we don't get into the concept of this court. We're not asking him to be the primary court. We respect all of this the way you predicted. But we have a lot of respect, and I think that one municipality with 100,000 inhabitants, with more dissociative territory, from Mladenvac to Panchev and from Smederev to Zveztar, should have a judicial unit. So it's not the basic court, it's the judicial unit. That way, we wouldn't question the concept that's planned here, we wouldn't question a whole set of other laws. Simply, we would just allow another large municipality to have even better conditions, so to speak, to make justice even more accessible. To make it simple, this amendment is almost technical, it doesn't get in the way of anything else. For these reasons, please take another look at the amendment. I repeat, it does not penetrate the concept, nor does the law on the regulation of courts, it is not the basic court that is sought, but the judicial unit. In this way, if we are already implementing such a comprehensive reform, we will end it by allowing, in this way, the judiciary to be organised, at least through this judicial unit to bring it closer to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9039	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Mrs. Radet has spoken of this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Mr. Cameraman to show the citizens of Serbia how much DS MPs are interested in working on the agenda, as they said, and I can see in particular that there is no Mrs. Kolundzhija, who deceived the citizens when she said the amendments on the set of laws are on the agenda. No, respected citizens, the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is on the agenda. So, when we said in the previous announcement that MPs, who don't mind us actually doing our job here on behalf of the citizens who sent us here, don't know what's on the agenda, we were right, and whoever doesn't, let's check in the stenogram. When it comes to this amendment by my colleague, Petronivic, as well as all amendments to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Mrs Malovic, it is indeed high time to take these amendments seriously, and the discussion of MPs, and to withdraw this law, in the name of the Government, from the procedure. Is it possible that you are not aware of the fact that all MPs, but all the MPs, the belief that this is not a good law, that what you are trying to do, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to do, is a kind of crime against the citizens who live in these small places where you want to abolish the courts? Why did I use this expression? Because it doesn't mean just -- there are no courts, they're going to have to travel, instead of 20, 80 kilometers, which, of course, is a big problem. But there's another problem, you're terminating over 100 courts, prosecutors, and courts for violations. On average, it's, in each of those small places, about a hundred people, times four family members, it's a large number of people you leave out of work. It's a large number of family members you leave without pay, because their parents, whether they're judges, warlocks, lawyers, employees of the judiciary, won't have a job. I want, in the context of this amendment, to actually talk about a legal scandal that took place last night at the RIK session. You, Mrs. Malovic, as minister and member of RIK, I don't know if Mr. Odalovic is still sitting there, who is also a member of the RIK, did something so scandalous that it really is completely pointless to pass any laws at all. What will we do when you, representing the congregation’s majority, do not respect the laws or judicial decisions? Unfortunately, as a minister and member of the RIK, you have not stepped in to protect the judicial verdicts of the district court that I am about to speak of. So here we are very correct in communicating with you, and the truth is that you are correct, as much as you are sitting and listening, or perhaps you are not listening, that we speak to you from this place as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the course of the debate, several colleagues drew attention, saying that they were setting you up here to represent something which, apparently, is a regulation, or a proposal that does not correspond to anyone in this parliament, which means no one in the Republic of Serbia, but after what happened last night, I am convinced that no one is setting anything up for you, that you are fully aware of everything you are doing and that you have knowingly signed a warrant for the delivery of Radovan Karadzic, do not give God for Mladic, that you are waiting for a sharp feather, like Djelic once did, to dispatch Ratko Mladic and that you are fully in the course of what is happening at his son Darko's family house, about harassing members of his family etc. You are fully aware of the lustration of judges and you are completely conscious of leaving at least 500 judges without a job, which means, times four to 2,000 people without bread, Serbian citizens. That means you're fully aware of the way you're going to remove the courts in small towns. Of course, we will speak specifically about each amendment, how important it is that what you propose by this law is, in a negative sense, significant and how important it would be to accept these amendments submitted by all MPs. Here, of course, are the current, or the most powerful members of the 3rd and 4th. The bill, where you, Madam Minister, and your government, have even ignored the administrative districts in the distribution of some courts, the determination of district courts, so I'm afraid you have nothing to do with the terrible skill that has appeared on Facebook these days, related to some municipalities with some claims for secession, etc. I'll talk about it when I talk about my amendment, but I just remind, first of all, the citizens of Serbia that what we are discussing here today and these days is not harmless at all. The government of the Republic of Serbia has dangerous intentions with this law, a bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. If, God forbid, this law is passed and applied, we will come into a situation to discuss much more terrible things when it comes to the territorial integrity of the Serbian state. That is why Serbian citizens need to hear the truth and have to hear the truth about who is responsible for Eulex, and who is responsible for the fact that on the agenda of June we cannot have a theme of Kosovo and Metohija, and who is responsible for the economic crisis and social misery. That's what Serbian citizens want to hear from the MPs, from their representatives. All these reasons are, in fact, the reason why intervention was to ban us from speaking, I just don't know who it is, to draw attention to that we abuse the Rules of Procedure, etc. No, Mr. Democrats, we know that it bothers you that we are pointing our finger at the real culprits for all the problems that are current in Serbia today. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people who are on the verge of existence, who have nothing to eat, who can't pay for electricity, who can't pay for communals, and every day you threaten to make new pick-ups, and every day there's really a new collection going on, you threaten to quit. I've already said how many unemployed will be within courts, present courts, how many people from the judicial administration, who usually work for 13 or 14 grand, top 15 grand, they'll be out of a job. Your colleague Milan Markovic orders through the media that he will reduce the number of employees in the administration in local self-government, only you keep your ministries. From 2000 to this year, the number of ministry employees, in which agencies, directorates, has increased ten and a half times. All personnel solutions, all personnel of the parties who were in power, and they are untouchable, and for the rest of the citizens, you do not care. Here someone was talking the other day about the containers, unfortunately, picking on people who were decently dressed, who apparently lived a normal life. Being decently trained means that this is what they could buy by 2000 and still wear that wardrobe, but unfortunately, now that the Democrats rule Serbia, they have nothing to eat. That's what Serbian citizens need to hear and that's what Serbian citizens need to know. Otherwise, counterpart Krasic has repeatedly drawn your attention to your democracy, which is known for the vote from Bodrum, after the vote from Thessaloniki, after the period when the Assembly, instead of 250, had 308 MPs, when Bosko Ristic had a whole parliamentary group, as chairman of the Administrative Committee, evicted them from Parliament, and the court later returned them, and no one ever asked him who was responsible for receiving a salary at the same time, with the only error of the DS and then the chairman of the Bosko Ristic Administrative Board. There are many, many questions that we will talk about today and every day. Mrs. Malovic, now I'm going to say what I actually wanted to say. The district court of Kosovo Mitrovica has reached a verdict that is justified, that in the municipality of Leposavic the mandates of the councils, former SRS committees, and that these mandates, new mandates, are assigned to the SRS committees. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you, on the question last week, told counterpart Ljubi Kragovic that he was not concerned, that it would be on the agenda on Wednesday or Thursday, and that last night was on the RIK agenda, because, due to specificity, problems are being solved by RIK, not the municipal election commission. This is not a topic right now, but it is about last night's RIK, or members of the DS commission, from G 17 plus, from the SPS and that RIK vice president, Judge Oliver Antic, voted that these mandates could not be taken and assigned, due to a formal error, because there was no seal on the accompanying letter of the president. Mrs. Malovic, can you, as Minister of Justice, say here that the letter accompanying is an act? Is this an act that depends on this judicial verdict being applied or not? No, obviously you've agreed to "yellow," these so-called "yellows." Advanced and Veljko Odalović, on behalf of the SPS, you obviously agreed, Ljubi Kragovic... Mr. Odalovic, unfortunately, you cannot communicate with the MPs from here, but, here, tell Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, so let her tell us if you were Ljubi Kragovic yesterday, two hours before the session and before he went to Kosovo Mitrovica, said – everything is fine, the documentation is reviewed, everything is fine and today's decision will be made? You said that. Then you're on purpose, or if someone in the service did it to you, you see who it is, we really have no intention of protecting anyone in the service or anyone in the ministry or anyone responsible for such abuses. I now announce to you, Mrs Malovic, and to you, Mr Odalovic, and to the other members of the Commission who voted against the law, that criminal charges against you will already be filed tomorrow personally because we Serbian radicals do not want anyone to play with the electoral will of Serbian citizens, especially we will not let anyone make fools of us, because we are not. Let the citizens of Serbia, let all Serbian lawyers see that Mrs Malovic, the minister, believes that one accompanying letter, which she says, in addition to the act, we are delivering to you the ruling of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the number and that act on the basis of which it is being decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9041	Mrs. Malovic has a word. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9042	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I apologize for having to answer a question that is not on the agenda, not about the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but about the Republic Election Commission. For the sake of Serbian citizens and clarifications, I will explain that I am a member of the Republic Election Commission, and this is the deputy member of Mrs. Carmen Cuk, who is otherwise a member of the Republic Election Commission in front of the SRS, which means I cannot vote at the session of the Republic Election Commission if the member is present. A member was present last night. I will say, for the sake of the truth, that I was only at the beginning of the session, since unfortunately I couldn't stay until the end, but I was informed what had happened, I was informed that for the municipalities of Vitin and Leposavic the conclusion of the Republic Election Commission which had been ordered to edit the documentation, and when it was settled, it would be again at the RIK session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9043	Thank you. I just want to say that Veljko Odalovic, who is a member of the Commission, was not against it. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9044	Article 101, replica. He was against it, but well, you can take the record from the RIK session. Mrs. Malovic, you were under obligation, whether as a member, whether as a deputy, it is completely irrelevant, to draw attention and to protect, as justice minister, the district court ruling in Kosovo Mitrovica or any other court in Serbia. It's the least you're expected to do. Your justification for whether you have had time to be in the entire session, or not to be, is completely irrelevant. Also, if the conclusion was reached and delivered, it speaks of, it was concluded, that the conclusion should be extended for a while, so that Sonja Brkic, again in agreement with Dejan Djurdjevic, is waiting for a certain time when she will schedule the session, then waiting for Dejan Djurdjevic to come, to have enough votes and to have his comment, to wait 20 minutes before the session started, and in the material you received as a member of the RIK was a proposal, that is, Mr. Odalovic, the services, as otherwise, you know, if the service had to put the proposal where it was only to be signed, of course, allow the debate and may otherwise be cast, etc., but it was clearly prepared that the documentation that was delivered by his colleague Kragovic was absolutely complete and only it was formally necessary to pass through the RIK's session. That is also the case in this House, when you provide us to process that one parliamentary group, instead of Mark Mark Markovic, has appointed Janko Jankovic as the Committee for Poverty, we get the text of the decision, a proposal for a decision. The motion for a decision was the same in RIK. So, those in charge, Marko Danilovic, as the secretary of the Commission, the officers who prepared it, Veljko Odalović, as a member of the Commission and as a secretary of the Assembly, who is objectively responsible for the work of all employees, so everyone saw it, or should have seen it, and they all saw that this documentation was okay and, I repeat, Mr Odalović told his colleagues Ljubi Kragovic, and then, last night, to get in time, to get those three months, would you somehow introduce a forced administration... It's a shame what you do with judges. It's a shame what you do with justice. (President: Time. ) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9045	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9046	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3(4). The draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, because I believe that this bill has given a completely inadequate model of the network of basic, or municipal courts, as they used to be called, and will thus be damaged, first of all, by the citizens of Serbia, as my amendment applied to two districts, to the Kolubar district, where I come from and whose citizens I represent, and to the Raška district. In fact, I'm aware that any arguments to make here and any amendment to this law, it can't be adequate, simply, because the bill is so bad that amendments can't be fixed. If that were true, it shows the number of amendments, since over 120 amendments have been submitted to only 19 members, and this third member, which mainly refers to the seat of municipal courts, the largest number of amendments has been submitted. So the seats are a question of where all my colleagues are, on the left and on the right, so those who represent the ruling coalition, and those who represent the opposition, have submitted a bunch of amendments. I see that, mostly, the minister and the government have not accepted these amendments, so it seems to me that all of this today, and these days, we're explaining there's no big echo. Because of what I think I'm really right about this, I think I should explain this amendment, and when I say that the network of courts' seats is bad, I have, first of all, the opinion of the public, and that part of the professional public that is very disdainful these days. Today, a part of that public, professional and professional judicial public, asked President Tadic that you simply withdraw this whole set of judicial laws, so that you no longer embarrass yourself and that you do not bring the judiciary into a situation that cannot be released for long. You say that one of the reasons, I really feel like this, looking at you and saying – you, I think of the promoter – rationalization. It can't be rationalized under anything else, first of all, because if 104 courts are abolished and 300 or 400 judges are fired, as this model predicts, it can't possibly be rationalization. The model you're offering is more expensive in approach, more expensive in travel; you can imagine a bunch of judges traveling through Serbia's roads. I travel every day from Valjev to Belgrade and I know how long it can take, so I can imagine how late the judges are gonna be and how difficult the work they're supposed to be doing anyway. Rationalization, as a method, is completely out. What you are offering is, in fact, a violation of the basic principle – the availability of justice to citizens, and that is not something we should talk about. In addition, you did not specify in the bill any criteria when deciding which courts and where to keep. However, in the explanation I read with the bill, I see that one of the criteria is geographical distance, that another criterion is a network of roads, and I could understand that you are building a traffic company. It has something to do with each other. But since you're building a network of courts, I don't see what that has to do with it. Don't understand that as a representative of the DSS, I'm against rationalization. There's room to talk about it, there's room to talk about that the courts that have a small number of cases, maybe, should be dealt with in some other way, but you have a situation here that 104 courts need to be abolished, because they don't fit your criteria. I think that one really complete and detailed analysis should have been carried out, and that detailed analysis meant criteria such as, say, territory covered by that court, how many inhabitants are gravitating that court, what is the national structure of the population, whether that court is located near the state border, or not located near the state border, and another thousand arguments and criteria could be found and discussed. You're talking about abolishing courts in small towns, because corruption reigns there. It's a completely unsustainable thesis. I represent these small places and I want to say that it is a completely unsustainable thesis, because if it is true, if corruption is in courts, and there is, your task is to regulate this question, to put those who are corrupt in the places that the state has set, in institutions like prisons, and those other people, who are not corrupt, not to get dirty with that story – they are all corrupt. If we follow your thesis, completely inappropriate, in small places teachers work. Shall we put them in the vans and drive them around Serbia? In small places doctors work, come on, let's apply that model here. It's completely inadmissible. Corruption is not a small place, corruption is in Belgrade, perhaps, more than in a small place, but in a small place it is much more known. I've shown that the criteria you've listed cannot be criteria. What remains is the essence, so politics remains. Politically, the courts move out, they shut down. Consider what the ruling coalition, as a political message, sends to citizens in small cities. It sends them a message that they shouldn't have cities, that they shouldn't live in urban areas, because you're removing their institutions. A small town that has a school, a church, a court, makes sense. That's the point that this town is gathering around. I know that in small cities people look much better and more at court and any institution of the state than it does in Belgrade and in large cities. If in a small town you abolish an institution such as the court, make sure that for a long time this institution will not be restored there, and it is not negligible that in public institutions, such as the court, in state bodies, a very large number of people, who will be in a position to remain unemployed at this moment. I'd just like to say a few more things that are related to the first part of my amendment at point 4, that's Colubary County. That's where I picked up the numbers that could be some kind of parameters when you decide. For example, the current municipal court, the General Court, as you call it in the bill of this law, remains in Valjev. Right now, it's a court that has about 30,000 cases a year. 24 judges are working in it right now. I can tell you that they barely cover the number of objects they have. I know that, because, as an MP, I'm in a situation where a lot of citizens call me and ask for my help. Why are they asking for help? Because they don't get their cases in order. It is a court in which in the past four or five years many funds have been invested, both in the equipment and in the complete assembly of the court on the outside. It's a court where several judges were employed, so the systematization was fully covered, and it was a court, to my pride, which, before 2000, by 2003, was at the beginning of the table according to the number of cases he solved. Right now, it's a court in the first part of the table. This means that everything invested in that court makes sense. Valjevo is one of the cities that he found and rented space, rented another building where he would be prosecutors. Valjevo's going one step ahead, and it's a small town. The point of the story is that my fellow citizens complain that it's impossible, very difficult, for their cases to come to court. I'm just going to point out the Model Factory people who, five years from month to month, have meetings with me, because they can't exercise their rights, even though the court has returned them to work. Procedures are extended, from the Supreme Court, municipal, county, Supreme, so that they still cannot exercise their right to return to work or retire, because, by years and by internship, they are already there. In a court of law, we have problems. Imagine when in such a court judges once, twice, travel three times a week. I'm using the term that's here right now. The Court of First Instance held 3,321 cases in 2007 and in the first nine months of this year – 2,457 cases. In addition, there are nine systematised judges in this court, six people working in those places and, according to the decision of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, they received three more judges working in the Kolubar district's territory as an aid. What I'm saying is that they have increased needs, more cases and they have systematicized places for these people. What happens when that court is gone? He will be a unit. You will tell me. Let's go to Osrečina municipality. I have to remind you, it's a municipality located near the state border. The court has invested a lot of funds, the building is fully decorated and equipped, has 600 square meters, has contemporary courtrooms, four cabinets for judges. In 2007, this court had 3,299 cases, and by September this year – 3,404 cases. My party colleagues in Osijek suggested that when you abolish this court, the Court of Osecina will be the first institution to be abolished in the 21st century. I don't think it's natural and nice to have someone bring an epithet of someone who's destroyed and abolished institutions. The municipal court in Lykovec, 2007 had 1,257 cases, until September 2008 – 1,280 cases. By the way, Lykovac is a municipality, there's a gasification going on, there's an expropriation of land in Mali Bork and Skobalj, the migration of the population due to the advancement of mining works and spears of Kolubara, if a miracle happens, and that highway we're all talking about is coming to life because it's going through the territory of this municipality. There's so much need for that court to stay, I think it's incredibly ugly to put away an institution that's in the middle and right. You've mentioned Mionica on many occasions. I'd like someone to go to court in Mionica and then talk about it all. Not to mention, since I see it's pretty boring and the minister and all the others, so I'm going to go for another argument that she used as an argument, which is a network of roads in the Colubary County. The network of roads in the Colubary County has been running pretty long. It has been restored in one part over the past few years, it has been restored, but it is also very bad. Since I've already mentioned Osecina and it's one mountainous area in the Colubary County, I can't imagine how and by what means judges will be transported when they cross the Stone Mountain and go to trial anywhere. I have to tell you that students and teachers who go to Osecina in high school can't cross that hill when it snows. What I'm saying is that citizens of Osijek can expect courts to work in their midst just to fly. I will continue to explain this amendment, although I see that there is absolutely no cooperation in that part to follow. The second part of my amendment is also on Article 3rd point 13. That's the part that applies to Raski County. It is good to establish a court in the King, but it is not good that you have abolished it in Raska. In 2007, there were 3,700 items, and in 10 months this year – 3,500 items. Otherwise, I have to say, since you obviously don't know, Raška municipality is located along the administrative line of Kosovo and Metohija. That means he's got a higher crime rate, from drug abuse to human trafficking. In addition, it belongs to a part of the Bather with unlawfully erected objects, so that the abolishing of the court under such circumstances is equal to suicide for that end. What I'm saying is that what you called arguments simply cannot be arguments, because you have this moment, as far as all MPs are concerned here, and those who sit and support the government, and those who do not support it, as well as the entire professional public, are a great resistance. There is only one option - to withdraw these laws, or to accept the amendment, not mine, because my only part, I fully understand that each of my colleagues is fighting for their own district and for their end, but to accept the amendment of my colleague from the DSS Milice Radovic, who says that this Article 3 should be deleted, i.e. Leave a network of dishes like she is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9047	Mr. Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9048	I'll just pick up where Milica left off. You know, gentlemen of Parliament, the public in Serbia, that the future republican public prosecutor, when he sees what this network is like, what's going to be done, what are the competencies, is going to remain only to fall down and have a little hair on his head, if at all. The problem is big. The problem is that there is a strategy for judicial reform. She was ordered, paid from abroad, made several years ago; those who then had to accept it, of course, by demonstrating indignity, for money, because someone on the side paid for that study, it's called a strategy. Now they've all finally seen that it's something bad, that it's something that's inapplicable. You are likely to vote with some acrobatics to this bill, along with all opposition from the MPs who belong to the assembly majority, but know, this will not be able to live. However, in order not to repeat myself, I will move on. It is only apparent that the government is right, as the legislator of the law, when it says - there will be no major problems, since in these small areas, where municipal courts are being shut down by a new organisation, judicial units are opening up. They continue as judicial units. That's about the answer for snow on the hill and some of the other arguments we hear here, because there's not going to be any of these judges. But then the question arises – why can't they continue as courts? Again, we come to that main answer, and it comes down to this -- why do we have a table and some basic courts, which is something of a president, when we can have 30? It's easier to control 30 than it is to control some of the presidents of the courts. It wasn't hard to guess what the background of this transformation was. However, you can conclude that there is no rationalization. Why? Here, so that the president of the National Assembly doesn't warn me, and I don't have any more money to pay, I'll take these two examples that are covered by Mrs. Milice's amendment. They concern points 4 and 13. Point 4 refers to the basic court in Valjevo, and point 13 refers to the basic court in the King. The amendment, in practice, suggests that there are no such judicial units, but that the existing situation should only be transferred to a new law. If we take any of these examples, let's say, a court in Valjevo, and if we want to perform some rationalization, transformation, then it was possible on the basis of an analytical assessment of all the data measuring the work of a court, the performance of judges, and to extract some common criteria and criteria and to in some way define the municipal court in a smaller place. If on the basis of these anonymous criteria, they are not explained, turn the municipal court into a judicial unit, you still haven't solved the problem. You'll have to have one judge in the judicial unit who will be the organizer of the task force. If he's not the president of that little court, then he's in charge of the coordinator, I don't know what you're gonna call him. Then there will probably be a need, once, perhaps twice a week, for the president of the basic court to invite the co-ordinators from the judicial units to agree on work, report, etc. I simply don't believe that this network will work the way you imagined it, and the question is whether it can be sent, given that it's data that has some degree of protection. The reduction of the number of secretaries in the judicial units is not the reform we need. I have to protest sharply over that argument that if in small towns, the municipal court shuts down and turns into a judicial unit, reduces crime in court, influence, corruption, which, by the way, exists in these small courts. Your argument is completely wrong. The biggest corruption in the judiciary is in Belgrade. Theoretically, there can't be any bigger than this one in Belgrade. It's a system of large numbers. However you apply some of the usual percentages, to express something to the mass that exists in Belgrade, it is the nominal amount of the largest. I need to draw attention to you for not paying attention to another matter of your orientation. Something needs to be done with smaller courts, but, above all, with regard to the quality of trial and working conditions. We don't see anything from this transformation of yours that is necessary to our judiciary. I'll give you a few very practical examples. We have lawyers here who are likely to nod their heads and confirm what I'm saying. We have a problem at the hearing. The lawyer represents, brings out his thesis, and then the president of the council dictates in the record something that comes to his mind. Why don't we start shooting sessions, a stenogram? Then there's not even a waste of time repeating something that's already been said once. Here's one solution that could change things pretty much in our judiciary. I guarantee you it will prevent the corruption that exists with the judge, because then the judge will not interpret what Batic said in the courtroom as the defendant. The man said something in his breath for 10 minutes, then the judge should dictate and he should correct it while she dictates. Let's get a shot, a stenogram, and the problem is solved. We can't make every court special. He's special about other things, Mr. Batic. We'll get to him, too. Another kind of savings is to make a very high-quality team around every judge, so judges don't wear cases at home in cagers, so on their private computer they play daktilographers and judges. You don't want that problem solved. You want to zero the composition of one, zero the composition of the other, to read the judges and prosecutors, to set them at your own free will. Why? To legalize and preserve what we survive every day. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I gave you that letter of employees in the Serbian Building Directorate this morning. I kindly asked you, if there is a possibility, to multiply it into 250 copies, to give 21 copies to the press. This is what you need to answer. I can't say that this is true, nor is it true, because I'm not authorized to conduct an investigation, nor do I have time to conduct an investigation. There's some paperwork on these apartment-saving contracts. He has a special chapter on this new director, as citizens constantly send their observations to the SRS, criticises. We're covered in material, so you know, because this transmission is being monitored and citizens have noticed that only this side represents their vital interests. There's the other side, which wants to fool around, that it doesn't exist. Director Grujic's management, in parentheses, writes – DS, building B7, Arsenija Čarnojevic, so let the company "Montera", so some Mr. Kopčović, I don't know, Batic, do you know him, and then the distribution of some apartments, I can guess some names here, something to make a mistake. They buy and sell apartments. Here, again, on page 5, he told his close associates he had to give money to DS because the party's president, Mr Tadic, must give the ministers 4,000 euros in cash. There's a lot of talk about it in the towers. I didn't make this up so someone wouldn't jump if I were to interpret something right now. You have, in the end, employees of the Serbian Civil Directorate, who simply cannot. There's a cleaning lady on the way. It was during Zlatanovic, the one from G17. And he's mentioned here, so you know. This isn't just DS. This, practically, was formed by the government's decision on November 2, 2001, Mr. Batic, you were then in that government. There was a change in how any party was in power. Now they sell and resell apartments. They do everything and everything. I don't want anyone to interpret that I went to a person, but I asked you to multiply this, to let the MPs know, to give it to the press, to start with this investigative journalism, because it's necessary to find out the truth. It's not good, to say that it's immoral for everything to go down just for the director of the airport. It wouldn't be good. We would not satisfy, above all, the demands and needs of citizens to hear the truth, to see who is doing harm by his work, conduct, and otherwise. I am absolutely sure that in the percentage of corruption, the percentage of unquality work is preceded by courts in Belgrade, as this shows a system of large numbers. We can emotionally observe the court from my place, from someone else's place, so we can express some attitudes, but the system of large numbers is valid, applied, yields results. It'd probably be a topic for all the organs fighting crime, not trespassing, breaking into the house. For 15 days, people get into the house. What's being demonstrated? What's showing? Violence, literally, violence. When violence comes from representatives of state authorities, we must ask whether the state body abuses authority or does it comply with the law and regulations. If there's a target every 15 days, I have reason to doubt that it's exactly against the law and don't be angry when we ask that question from here. I have to distract you, I'm in a agenda topic. For who knows which time, I ask the question concerning Article 3(3) - does a judge in Serbia know how to apply this provision of the Law on the financing of political parties? Mrs. Malovic, I'm going to read again what's written in that law. The law is bad. When the law was passed and published, it was also an affair, because Djelic wanted to take money for a book with that press, and with a rule book and with those things, so the law was changed. Biserka Zivkovic, apart from the National Assembly, changed, so he was not in charge of this organ, but of the other organ, so Djelic became angry – the second organ, because he had already printed the book. It's all common knowledge. As soon as I have it on my computer, it means it's common knowledge. To understand what Article 3(3) regulated – private sources in the financing of political parties are membership fees, contributions from legal and natural persons, revenues from the promotional activities of the political party, revenues from the political party's assets and legislation. Does this position allow the political party to borrow from some foreign bank that is working on our territory? I'm opening this issue because I have a lot of reasons to doubt how the DS election campaign was financed. The Maheri designed the system. The report is submitted to RIK, RIK gave an audit. They say they're not in charge of it, we don't know how to do it. Let's make one investigative team, judges, prosecutors, to investigate how the DS election campaign is financed. Why? Because once their way of funding the election campaign is reviewed, it will be clear how it is with other political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9049	Mr. Vladan Batic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9050	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that, on behalf of the DHSS, I support a set of proposed judicial laws, especially in that section concerning the general re-election of all judges in Serbia. This was to be done in 2000, but there was no political will at the time. Some call it lustration. It can also be called that, because it is necessary for the whole public sector, even in the judiciary, to finally separate the grain from the weeds. It only bothers those who are insecure, scared, confused, unprofessional, lazy. They're constantly hiding behind the notion of the continuity of the judge's function, because behind the constant, like the cover, they can hide intricacies, and ignorance, and inability, not to talk about nepotism, corruption, the general hypo-crisis. No one contests the institutions of constitutionality and independence of judicial officials, but these are no metaphysical or alchemist categories. They must be in agreement with reality, with the reality in which we live. A zero choice of all judges in Serbia must be made once, so that the vast majority of judges who professionally, honorably, professionally, securely perform their duties are hostages and suffer the negative ratings that the judiciary has due to a small number of those who are no longer meant to be in the judiciary. When all judges are elected, then the Institute of Perseverance should function for all those who are responsible, able, honest and successful in their work. No function, not even a judge, can be as permanent as a front for the already mentioned inadequacy, incompetence and ignorance. As far as this law is concerned, which is on the agenda and whose amendments we are discussing, the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, his idea is essentially good. She's supposed to break up some enchanting relationships, rides, intruding, nerada, one of the frogs that rules a good part of the judiciary. However, although the idea is good, it means that the breaking up of this accumulated toad, I'm afraid that the realization of this good idea will be very complicated, or based on some kind of questionable criteria. Personally, I do not think that this law can be corrected by amendments, because accepting any amendment means changing the concept and it means violating something that the legislator has set out in the proposal for this legislative text. My proposal is for the Ministry to consider withdrawing this law for a short period of time, for a certain amount of work, so long as it is due to start operating in practice only on 1 January 2010. I think there's time, because I can't just count cases, and I'm not even sure if the number of objects is the only criterion, or maybe the county's headquarters, regardless of the number of objects or the district's seats, as the seats of future basic courts, to be the only criteria. I think that some of the criteria mentioned in this debate should also be respected – the ethnic composition of municipalities, traffic connections, traditions, development or underdevelopment of some place, or municipalities and cities, economic opportunities and standards of the population. I would mention, illustratively, two examples, let's say, the White Church, in which the tradition of courts exists for 250 years, such as this criterion of tradition, and another criterion – ethnicity in that municipality; the most important are the Czech and Romanian national minorities. They spoke to all the parliamentary groups. I think the criteria of this type should be respected, and there are many municipalities and cities in Serbia, individually expressed, perhaps, and more pronounced, but, like this, two – tradition and ethnic composition together, this is the most striking example. Or, say, the number of citizens, or the number of inhabitants. It'll sound biased, but it's not a cause, if I say the Obrenovac municipality has nearly 100,000 inhabitants. You have some district seats or whole districts that have fewer inhabitants. So what's the criterion? These are some global reasons, phenomenal, that should have been considered. We also have reasons for the prosaic nature, I would say, those life-threatening, everyday, all of us know them, tied up, if you will, and for our nature, for understanding responsibility and for habits, for the difficult change of habits, as well as for technical, traffic, organisational and other opportunities and opportunities. You, Mrs. Malovic, remember one day when we sent a surveillance service to the Court of Justice, to see how the courts work. At nine o'clock, half those judges weren't at work, and about two or half or half of the same day, we repeated the case, so the Department of Justice's surveillance went back to the same courtrooms or cabinets, and those people weren't there then. Then, of course, the moaning began, the whole choir, and the conductor – Vida Petrović-Škero. At the same time as the Belgrade District Court, because of the misread of the provisions of the ZKP, fellow lawyers will remember, abolished detention, only the Belgrade District Court, eight of the most radical killers, when the two-year term followed the prosecution's appeal. The Supreme Court has respected the appeal, but the murderers have escaped; only the son of a famous football player has returned, afraid of being killed outside, at large. It is the District Court under the auspices of Vida Petrovic-Škero. But let me get back to this. For example, the Second Municipal Court will have judicial units in many suburban municipalities in Belgrade. All these are now called, or will be called – judicial units, there are asked a series of questions. Is it actually going to be, or is it going to be arranged by the Rules of Procedure, the judicial department, that's something else, or the judicial units, where the cases will be assigned on a random basis? I ask – where will the people who live take this court as an example, and there are even more drastic examples, examples of greater distance from some other courts, where will the judges who belong to election units sit? Who finds them cabinets, say, in the Second District Court? If it's a random choice to go to trial, is there a car, a driver, where they're going to keep the cases, how and where they're going to make the verdicts? I think it's going to be a big problem, and then, based on bad habits, irresponsibility, it's going to come down to obstruction, avoiding, stalling, and I'm afraid the victims will be citizens. I remind you that only swift justice is true justice. I'm afraid, and I'm asking you one more time to consider all this. There is no heresy to consider the proposal for this law, whose idea, I repeat, is good, but Serbia is not yet ready for the tectonic disorders of this type. I am for lustration, I am for reelection, but I'm afraid that in this situation it can lead to delaying, prolonging and, perhaps, harmful consequences for the citizens, who are otherwise unhappy that court proceedings take too long. That's my well-intentioned suggestion. I would only beg and appeal, not sure whether the Rules of Procedure can fix it, change it or accept it, to think about it, repeat it, not in the interest of the judges, but in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9051	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill provides for the abolition of municipal courts in the Great Plan and the Smederjev Palace. Their jurisdiction, according to this proposal, would be taken over by the basic court in Smederev. With my amendment, I suggested that, besides the basic court in Smederev, there was also the Supreme Court in the Great Plan, with an outstretched department in Smederjevska Palanca. I've made an amendment for the reason I don't think there are rational reasons, so, justifiable reasons, in the interest of faster and better enforcement of justice, which is why the court in the Great Plan should be abolished. If we cancel the Grand Plane court, which is the same case with the other courts, the question is, will the citizens of justice, in that case, be more accessible? He won't. Will the procedure be simpler? He won't. Will the organisation of courts and justice be easier? He won't. Will judicial proceedings and the work of the judicial authorities be cheap? He won't. Is it going to be easier for the judges? They won't, it'll be harder for them. Will it make it easier for the citizens? Of course not, for certain rights will have to be exercised in municipalities outside their home in the future. Is there any state interest that would make this reorganization and the abolition of this number of courts? It doesn't exist. Then, in itself, one question arises: why do we have a bill like this? I have no answer to that question, but I do know that over the past few days more than 60 MPs have spoken about this law and neither of them knew the answer to this question. They were not only MPs from the opposition, but also MPs from the ruling parties. On the other hand, there are many reasons why I believe the Grand Plane court should continue to exist. The first reason is tradition. There's been a Grand Plane court for over 100 years. He first existed as a happy court in the Great Nuts, and since 1946 he has been serving as the Municipal Court. For some big place, for some larger and older town, a hundred years is not too long a time period, however, for the Great Plan, which as a settlement exists for just over 200 years, a hundred years is half the existence. As a result, citizens of the Great Plan, the Municipal Court sees not only as a place where they can exercise their own rights, but as part of their identity, their traditions, their history. In the past 20 years, in Serbia, we have a phenomenon that they collapse and collapse all the values of the institutions, including the state institution. I believe that, with more than a hundred courts suspended, this negative trend just accelerates and accelerates. It is simply illogical in one place to abolish an institution that has been in existence for a hundred years, which works well, of which citizens have no harm at all. On the contrary, they benefit. So there is no reasonable reason why this institution would be abolished. The next reason is available space and technical equipment. When I spoke two days ago about why I don't think it should be lifted, in fact, which is why we need to establish a court for violations in the Great Plan, I brought out here information that the Grand Plane Court building has over 2,000 square meters of surface space, which is enough for the comfortable operation of not one, but three courts, a team before every judge has his own cabinet in this building in the Great Plan, and each cabinet is equipped with a computer and other necessary equipment. The next argument I'm going to remind myself of, which I was talking about, is that the Great Plan, along with the Smederjevska Palanka, which would be covered by the Main Court in the Great Plan, has 110.000 inhabitants. You remember that here we have data that we have areas where these basic courts that have three times fewer inhabitants than those of these two municipalities will be established together. The next argument is the geographical position. I will only briefly remind myself that the Great Plan is located most of its territory, so it is provided by means of the stretching of the Belgrade-Nish highway. I'm not going to repeat now all the reasons why, practically, no day goes by without the Grand Plan's judicial authorities performing some kind of highway intervention, whether or not it's because of traffic accidents, whether or not for some other reason. The main argument that the Great Plan's court is due to continue its work is the size of the business. Ten judges, three judicial assistants and two judicial interns are currently working at the City Court in the Great Plan. So I'm going to speak through the scope of this court's work in 2007 and the first nine months of this year. In 2007, there were five litigation councils, two major labour disputes, three criminal councils, one judge handled the case, two in the investigation department. A total of 14,625 subjects were present in all matter in operation. Yesterday, a basic court was mentioned, in fact, one municipality where it will remain to serve a basic court that has three times fewer cases. If we divide this number of objects by the total number of working days, we get 59 items per day, or eight objects per working hour. It's 1,462 cases per judge per year. I repeat, 1,462 cases, or six cases per day per judge, if we count only the working days. This is the mathematics I took out only on the assumption that only one hearing is held annually, and any procedure, especially in the country of Serbia, is difficult to complete with one hearing. In 2007, a total of 9.008 cases were solved in the City Court in the Great Plan, of which 1,835 are old cases. It is 36 solved cases per working day, i.e. five cases per court's working hour. Anyone who has a superficial understanding of this matter, who knows how difficult it is to hold several hearings in one case and give a verdict that is in the interest of justice, can write its argument, can assume what the size of the work done by judges in the Grand Plana Court is. In the first nine months of this year, a total of 5,409 items were received, or more than 20 cases a day. If only working days count, it's 23 new items a day. This means that every hour of effective labor, the Court received three and a half cases. In the first nine months of this year, if we count old cases, ten judges have handled 11 026 cases, 58 cases per working day, or 5.8 cases per judge for one working day. In 2007, 614 cases were considered, which confirmed 418 and 68.08%, respectively. I know these numbers are a little tiring, but I'm saying, I don't think there's a stronger argument to defend the existence of a court against the scale of his work and the results of his work, so I'm going to talk about the work of some departments. The work of the Criminal Department: In 2007, three criminal councils worked in this court, which handled a total of 1,086 cases, of which 548 cases were received during the year. The average monthly inflow per judge is 19 cases. In the first nine months of this year, 325 new cases were received, of which 278, or 85.5% were resolved, which must be recognised as a large percentage, even for some countries with much more orderly judiciary than in Serbia. The work of the investigation department: in 2007, a total of 530 items were handled, of which 422 new items were new. The monthly inflow per judge is 22 cases. 423 cases have been solved. So again, one outstanding percentage, or 22 cases per judge per month. In the first nine months of this year, only one judge worked in the department and he handled 369 cases. Extrajudicially criminal: 127 cases were handled in 2007, 120 of which are new items. 118, or 92.91% of cases, or 12 cases, were solved monthly. Also, an exceptional percentage. In the first nine months of this year, 94 cases were handled, of which 85 new cases, 91 cases were solved, or 96.80% of cases. I'm going to say a few more words about the work of the litigation department and the work of the legacy department, so I don't bother you with these numbers. In this matter, four litigation councils were tried in 2007, a total of 1,655 cases, of which 888 cases were received last year, amounting to, as a monthly inflow, 23 cases per judge. So, practically every day of work, the judge had one new item. 935 cases have been solved, which is 19 resolved cases per judge per month. In the first nine months of this year, 1,289 cases were handled, and the monthly inflow was 17 cases per judge. I'll tell you something else about the work of the Leaven Department. During last year, 846 cases were received, or 86, 60 cases per judge. With 99 old cases found, a total of 965 cases were handled; 584 cases were solved, or 62%, which is 50 subjects per month. In the first nine months of this year, 989 cases were handled, 618 new cases were received, the monthly inflow was 69 cases per judge, and 589, and 60.16% of cases were resolved, which amounted to 66 resolved cases per month by the judge. I don't want to read any more. When you take into account all this data and you analyse it and compare it with the results of the work, with the number of jobs that some courts have that will continue to exist, then there is only one conclusion, that the abolition of the Court of Justice in the Great Plan is completely irrational and unwarranted. For those who were too tired of these numbers to illustrate the size of the Court's affairs in the Great Plan, I'll tell you this: in these 12.5 minutes, I've said not how many letters, how many letters. The number of cases the Court has handled in the Great Plan is greater than the number of letters I have spoken today for this assembly speaker. And if it were nothing else, I think it's just an argument enough to respect my amendment – that the municipal court in the Great Plana continues to work as the Court of First Instance, with the Smederjevska Palanca department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9053	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Donka Banovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9054	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have made countless arguments here, and my colleagues who have explained this bill so far, that when one bill has only 19 members, and on those 19 members we have 124 amendments, and which is interesting, it seems, only when it comes to this law, we have amendments that come from MPs who make up opposition in the Assembly, but there are a lot of amendments and MPs that make, I say, the ruling majority, it is uncertain that this bill will pass when it comes to the day of voting, because at least MPs will find it hard to gather 126 votes, or there will be 126 MPs who will support the bill. In fact, a few days group of MPs from the Group of Minorities, or SVM, explain their amendment to a number of cities in Vojvodina. It would be good if other MPs could have that kind, or own that 'control package', so perhaps it's the idea that MPs here create a lobby group for certain areas or territories in Serbia. Maybe that's how we'd do it, if nothing else, then at least we'd think seriously about our amendment. Yesterday, I was saying that there are four ways, and I will repeat that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and Justice Minister Mrs Malovic, are getting out of this problem, both elegantly and four ways to fix this law. First, which is not a repair, but is the withdrawal of the bill, and I agree that a different network should be created. However, no good analysis has been done. That's why we all have so much trouble with the proposal. We also know that this bill is not so urgent, because it will only take effect on 1 January 2010. So there's still time, or the Ministry has a year to run a serious analysis and come up with a different proposal for a network of courts. That's the first way. Another way is to adopt the amendment of counterpart Srdjan Spasojevic, who suggests that the member be deleted, so if we delete that member, he would remain a member of the current law, or the current network of courts. Either to adopt an amendment from DSS counterpart Milice Radovic, who suggests erasing and proposing to remain an old network, or to adopt amendments coming from DSS MPs. We have made individual amendments to this article and each MP has, aboutly, covered two points in the amendment, and it mainly coincides with a territorial organisation, or districts. My amendment refers to point 5, and point 5) suggests that only one basic court remain in the Pcinj County, in Vranj, for the territory of the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Bujanovac, Vladicin Han, Presevo, Surdulica, Trade and Vranje, with judicial units in Bosilegrad, Bujanovac, Vladicin Han, Presevo and Surdulica. I suggest that point 5 be deleted and the net remains as it is now, i.e. remain that there are municipal courts in Vranje, Bujanovac, Bosilegrad, Vladic's Han, Presevo and remain the Municipality court in Surdulica. The second part of my amendment refers to point 23. It proposed that there be one basic court in Piroth County, therefore, in Pirote, for the territory of the municipalities of Babusnica, Bela Palanka, Dimitrovgrad and for the town of Piroth, with judicial units in Babusnica, Beli Palanca and Dimitrovgrad. Otherwise, in the bill, there's a mistake in the text itself, it says, "The White Palanca," but it's not, it's supposed to say, "in the White Palanca," it's likely to improve. I suggest that this point be deleted and new points added. The first would be point 23 - if it were to remain that there is a Municipal Court in Piroth, that there is a Municipal Court in Babusnica and that there is a Municipal Court in Dimitrovgrad. In the White Palace, and now there's the Department of the Low Court. However, the government did not accept my amendment, explaining that it does not fit into a new concept of the network of courts and that the government is determined to abolish 104 courts in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we have also proposed these amendments because we disagree with that concept, so the explanation is logical. Also, we believe that the judicial system will not be more effective. On the contrary, a whole new and different problem will arise, which will slow down the functioning of the judicial authorities again. Then, it is not true that this proposal will lead to rationalisation. It's not just rationalising the number of judicial authorities from 138 to 34. What's most impressive is the claims we've heard here, that this will reduce corruption in the judiciary. This is not the way to solve the problem of corruption in any area. According to various surveys, and we also do not need research to know that corruption exists, when it comes to justice and justice, but also that there is corruption in health, unfortunately, there is corruption in education, there is corruption in politics. However, it has never occurred to anyone so far that, because we all know there is corruption in the police force, a police station in a city is being abolished. So it's not the way to solve corruption, it has to be solved another way. The MPs spoke of the absence of the right criteria, or of not applying all the criteria to be applied. We see that there is a mention of travel infrastructure, sometimes, the number of residents, sometimes. However, it did not seem to me that there was one comprehensive view of whether or not a city should be abolished. So that should take into account all the criteria, and the size of the municipality, and the number of inhabitants, and the resolution, and the state of travel infrastructure, the geographical location of a particular municipality, the number of objects (solved, unsettled) and, of course, the national composition of the population living in a particular city, but also the economic development. The abolition of municipal courts is not only a matter of justice, but also a political and economic issue. A bad message is being sent to citizens living in those places where the courts are being abolished. Then, the policy of even regional development is undermined. Here I'm talking about two districts-- pyrotski and Pcinjski. We all know that these are the districts that belong to those that we can freely say are poor. But the MPs, unfortunately, keep talking about their cities here, or the environments from which they come to be poor, that is, the general conclusion is that Serbia is still a rather poor country. Unemployment in some of these places is over 40%. So there are very little differences, when it comes to unemployment, between Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, Surdulice – mostly, there are very few people employed. They also need to move the population, so we have a population spilling out of these environments. It's a bad message for investors, too, because when we talk about regional development, it's bad when you tell someone who's interested in your community and local self-government that you don't have a municipal or a basic court. So, from our promise to take care of regional development and the government's promise to open 200. Thousands of jobs, it looks like nothing's going on. I will take my municipality, Dimitrovgrad, for example, even though it is one of the smallest in these two districts, to say why a municipal court should not be abolished in Dimitrovgrad. It is a municipality bordering eastern part of the Republic of Bulgaria, up to 75km in length. Let's say, when it comes to Bosilegrad, there's a state border with Bulgaria about 54km, and Surdulica is 42km; so we're talking about border municipalities. The municipality is very dissociative. The farthest village from the center is 42 kilometers away. These are villages in the area of the Old Mountains, where winter weather is difficult, so it is very difficult for a citizen from the farthest village to reach Dimitrovgrad, let alone continue the way to the first court, another 30 kilometers. Then, what's important for Dimitrovgrad, as well as for other municipalities in these districts, is that it's a city where more nations live. Most of them are Bulgarians, and they live, of course, Serbs. So, the Bulgarian national minority is the majority in the city, such as in Bosilegrad, and members of the Bulgarian national minority, who demand it, communicate with the court and communicate in the Bulgarian language, both in judicial proceedings and in the exercise of other rights in court. Therefore, the abolition of courts, such as the Court of Justice in Dimitrovgrad and in some other multinational environments, will make it very difficult for the fundamental human and minority rights of members of national minorities. In the case of the city court itself in Dimitrovgrad, there were, for example, 3,800 cases in 2006 and 2007. By November this year 1,300 cases were received, and the number refers to the cases in question. That's another view of why some courts don't need to be lifted. In Surdulica, a few years ago, it was renovated, built up, even, a new part of the Court building, so that the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office function in very good conditions, while such conditions will not exist for the work of the Vranj General Court, which will increase in numbers. Of course, he'll have a lot more work to do than all these other courts would. I urge you, Madam Minister, to think about it, because a lot of MPs have suggested that you withdraw this law and analyze it a little better - the existing situation and the network of courts, and come to us with a better proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9055	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and after that, MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9056	Mrs. Malovic, I will try to make my general impression, not only on Mrs. Donka Banovic's amendment, but also on all amendments to the MPs, whose essence is – to keep the existing judicial network. You see, Mrs. Malovic, in 1963, when the new constitution of SFRY was to be adopted, the then communist furniture declared so-called. the 'four d' policy – democratisation, decentralisation, deberocracy and deetatisation. The policy was particularly intensified in 1968, when the first amendments to the SFRJ Constitution were passed and later, especially when the famous 1974 constitution was to be brought. Decentralisation has, since the DS took over power in 2000, become one of the constant-repeating flossules in the bill's proposals, in the various strategies adopted by the Serbian and National Assembly, in the media, in the public performances of all politicians belonging to the ruling set since 2000, until now. Now you have one paradox. On the one hand, you insist on decentralisation as a necessary condition for Serbia's democratisation, while, on the other hand, abolishing municipal courts as a par excellency of state bodies. I suppose it is in line with decentralisation to leave the courts, that the courts and all other state bodies are as close as possible to the citizens, not to distance those institutions from the citizens, that citizens or judges have to go 20, 30, 50 or more kilometers to get justice, or to share that justice. Madam Minister, courts are extremely important state institutions. You have that ancient sentiment - to go to the judge, means to go to justice. That's how you distance justice from the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, one of the basic thesis why this bill should be adopted is that it is a form of rationalization of the state apparatus. But I don't understand one thing, if you wanted to rationalize the state apparatus, to reduce the number of those working in the state service. Although a formal-legal judge is not a civil servant, essentially, he is, because he's doing some work for the state. I don't understand why you didn't start from the executive authority, from the ministries, from the government's authority in their composition, from powerful agencies, for which most, not only Serbian citizens, but also legal experts, can't tell you what their essence is. Are these management bodies, are they special organizations, are they public services? What is their legal status anyway? Just to draw attention to you, in the European Commission's reports on the situation in Serbia, in the World Bank's reports, the IMF, I haven't found anywhere, correct me if I'm wrong, that the main problem in approaching Serbia's European integration is a large number of judges. I found something else, that there's a large number of officials, that there's a large number of administrative authorities, that there's a large number of agencies, that the state administration is beyond all European standards, but you don't change that. Not only are you not changing, but, year by year, as the Dossman government forms, a growing number of civil servants. You employ party personnel in all state institutions of executive authority. Now you are not changing the state as it was found in the executive government, and from year to year it is worse, but you are beginning to rationalise the state apparatus, by reducing the number of judges, for the reason that Mr Zoran Krasic stated – to help control, above all, the presidents of the courts. So you're talking about decentralisation, and I guess the point of decentralisation is to keep the court in touch with the citizens. You remember since 2001, I initially found the syntagma funny, later it became widely accepted, that state authorities should be a public service to citizens. I guess it's essentially that public service ideology of yours to be a citizen within reach of your hands, not to force people living in mountainous and mountainous areas to, say, in winter conditions, 50, 60 or 100 kilometers to get to a place where they're supposed to get some kind of justice. So that's not decentralisation for you. What do you consider decentralisation? You've completely mixed the pots. For you, decentralisation is what is now being done in Vojvodina. For you decentralisation is the same as decommissioning the state. On the one hand, what is the essence of decentralisation, which is that the state authorities are within reach of the citizens, you stop. On the other hand, under a decentralisation firm, you're breaking up the state. The DS is the main culprit for why the Vojvodina Assembly adopted the Statute of Vojvodina. Why was he adopted? They say Nero set Rome on fire to personally experience what it was like to burn Troy. It now turns out that it is necessary to separate Vojvodina from Serbia so that Bojan Pajtic can see what it is like to be president of the state. That's the essence of what's happening in Vojvodina right now. You need to prevent the collapse of the state under a decentralisation firm, because what else is Vojvodina under this statute, if not the state, if it has diplomatic representations abroad, if it can conclude international contracts, ratify those contracts, make decisions with legal force, etc. It's a country. You can call it whatever you want, but yet Roman lawyer Gaius said: “It doesn’t matter what it is called, but what its essence is. ” The AP Vojvodina is an autonomous province by name only. Basically, it's a federal unit, at least, or, tomorrow, perhaps, a sovereign state. How do you experience decentralisation? What's the point of decentralisation, you're pushing under the carpet. You're pulling state institutions in front of citizens to make justice as difficult as possible. On the other hand, under a decentralisation firm, you're breaking the state through the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina. Tomorrow, some smart-ass from the Dosmanian government will think of saying -- you know, we can't join the EU faster if we don't give too much autonomy, say, in the Raska area or, God forbid, some other area in Serbia. It's not, Mrs. Malovic, the essence of decentralisation. When they asked a Hungarian professor if it was better centralised or decentralisation, he told them – depending on the circumstances: if there are smart people in the centre of the state, who take care of the state and the interests of citizens, then it is better centralised; if they are in the center of fools, then it is better decentralisation. In view of the people who are now leading the state of Serbia and standing at the centre, the SRS considers it a better decentralisation, because in the centre of the state, people who are working against the interests of the state, against the interests of its citizens, and the evidence of this law, which draws justice, is moving away from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9057	The word has a letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9058	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and MPs, the LDP cannot support this bill and we will not vote for this law in the day of voting. Thus, we support all amendments submitted by colleagues from both the opposition and the position, which are aimed at the survival of municipal courts, i.e., now, of basic courts, if certain laws of the set of judicial laws are adopted. We have no doubt and we assume, we are always going positively from the problem, that it was a good intention of the legislator to finally make one serious cut, to seriously rationalise justice and to the courts' seats. That shouldn't be a big problem. I think we'd all be very supportive if we could actually realize the rationalization of the courts. But this proposal, as given in this congregation debate, does not prove that there has been any more serious consideration of this rationalization. Why? Of the 138 courts, 34 remain; of the 28 courts in Vojvodina, eight remain, and 110 remain in the narrow territory of Serbia, 26. What does that mean? To abolish, about 70-75% of existing municipal courts. In fact, this means that there are serious centralization of courts, which means that these courts are centralized in certain cities, in certain districts, and it is assumed that these judges, which so far worked in smaller places, where the courts are abolished, are now moving to these centres, therefore, new centres of power. So it should remain the same number of judges and judges. This means that if you take into account how many employees, the employee needs to serve one judge, and all these accompanying workers, court officials, are moving back to those centers of power. So there's no rationalization, but we have centralization. Rationalisation should mean achieving the same or better effect, with some greater savings and some capacity reductions, a reduction in the number of workers, judges and others. However, unless a field probe has previously been done, no infrastructure has been made, which should be an alpha and omega of one serious judicial reform, then we cannot get good effects of rationalisation. So again, we're going to go for a rough rationalization, a rough savings that will turn into its opposite, because we're not going to get the right effects; we're going to get the effects that, on the one hand, might reduce costs, but it's going to do much more damage, which is going to cost more than the existing network of courts. To rationalize, in fact, we re-book existing courts that are designed to center these others, first of all, of the provincial courts. So, from that prebooking, knowing how we normally approach law enforcement, you can't expect something positive and something good. It was first left for a year to do this withdrawal, it centered, it rebuke, that rationalization in the network of courts. Is a year enough to achieve the effects that have been announced and what are the essence, in fact, the intention of the legislator? We know that in earlier proposals of the law, we have provided for appeals courts, provided for some other powers, which have not yet come into force, and, behold, it has been several years, and from year to year, it is all delayed. So justice solutions can't be simple, they can't be fast, they can't be ad hoc and they can't be done on a shortcut. In particular, I resent the legislator that he did not include in this set of judicial laws any other bill that would certainly contribute much more rationally, easier to apply these existing laws if they were adopted. First of all, it is not settled what will be done with public notebooks, whether they are in any way considering the legislator. Is it thought that if we are already reducing the number of basic courts, if we are already working on these departments, or judicial units, it would be good to include that public notation institution, which works pretty well in our environment as well as in Europe? This would really achieve a good effect of rationalisation and savings, as regards the application of the law and the work of the judicial authorities. Have we considered reforming the full enforcement procedure, which is now a major delay in law enforcement and in the implementation of judicial decisions? Was there any thought to passing a law that would eventually regulate the whole enforcement process, which apparently does not work, or does it work badly? So was there any thought about making a comprehensive reform of the judiciary, and not just that we're simply reducing the number? The simple reduction of the number cannot achieve the objective that has been declared, cannot achieve the effect needed for the functioning of the judiciary, for simpler and easier access of citizens to justice, law and courts. It is not only a matter of whether they travel or not to travel to the courts, but rather whether they will come to some effective outcome if they initiate any proceedings before that court. Many will risk this journey too, many will risk both costs and everything else, but if this is delayed, if it goes on forever, then we do not see why we would reduce the number of existing courts, because by overbooking, as I have already mentioned, I highly doubt that this effect of a more rapid trial, more efficient and rational trial will be achieved. I understand that there was probably some sort of lustration. However, back eight years, although there has been a lot of talk about lustration, although there has been a lot of talk about that, indeed, not everyone who was a judge and in the previous regime being judges, and we know that there are major problems and corruption, the courts are very high-ranking on that scale of corruption of state authorities, we believe that this kind of rationalisation does not have an effect on that lustration. So, when all of this is considered, we suggest that this bill be removed from the agenda and that it be re-evaluated, re-thinking, and this comprehensive reflection of what the reasons that forced us to propose, what we want, what our goals, what we can achieve in the present state of our society, our country, in the present reality. When all this is seen, then we'll be able to do a proper rationalization of the network of courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9059	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) If not, I am setting a break for up to 15 hours, and work in the afternoon continues with the debate in particular, by amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. [[After the break, at 15.00 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. A proposal of this law, which I had provided for to remain in Surdulica court in the form of a basic court and to be responsible for the municipalities of Bosilegrad and Vladic's Han. I will try to support this amendment with my arguments, to define them and to articulate them in such a way that the representatives of the government, whom unfortunately there is no, my arguments recognize, precisely, in those arguments that they have presented here, whether a minister or one of the representatives of the assembly majority, recognize them in some of their views and arguments. First of all, in the submission of this amendment, I have been guided by the fact that in every administrative district of the Republic of Serbia there is at least one basic court; I have taken into account the geographical distance, the development of the travel network, the protection of investors and certainly the availability of justice. This legal solution has caused considerable anxiety in both the professional and the general public throughout the country, as well as in the municipality from which I come. I believe that, and because of that public, it is important to say from this pay phone that Surdulka is a border municipality. That, of course, is also Bosilegrad, and you could have just heard from counterpart Donka Banovic that these two municipalities have over 100km of state border with the Republic of Bulgaria. With the bill, as you have predicted and defined, the entire length of the border and the two border crossings in these two municipalities will remain uncovered by the basic court. So one of the ideas was, or one of the reasons was that these two border crossings, one of which is on the territory of the municipality of Surdulica, and the other on the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad, should be covered by one basic court. I suppose you know what brings with it the fact that you have border crossings, and in that positive, and in that negative context, but first of all, I felt that there would be additional legal certainty here, at least in all these negative details that could occur because of the fact that these two municipalities have two border crossings. There I would, of course, insist on the fact that just a few weeks ago, in this assembly, you adopted a set of laws that are supposed to put us on a white Schengen network. Among other things, within them, you have adopted the Act on the Protection of the State Border and the Foreign Law. By adopting these two laws, you have committed yourself to meeting certain standards, and I think that the presence of a basic court would make it easier to improve in this area, i.e. to meet certain standards which, in a positive context, are required of this country. On the other hand, it is important to say, in the context of the availability of justice, that both Surdulica and Bosilegrad, and Vladic's Han are multinational environments. In a different form and relationship it is expressed in all three of these municipalities, and, in particular, Surdulica is the municipality in which this colour is most pronounced. I think that because of this availability of justice, in the context of human and minority rights, it would be good to remain the primary court in Surdulica, at least in Surdulica, if not in every municipality in the territory of the Pcinj County. I think that would represent additional legal certainty for all those people who would eventually have certain needs in this regard. In this context, I spoke with representatives of these national minorities and co-ordinators of the Bulgarian National Minority Offices and of the Roma national minority and of one of my own intensities and intentions I received written support from both offices. Of course, our conversations were completely relieved of political and ideological attributes and therefore I received support for one such amendment. In the construction of the reasons why we should accept such an amendment, some may have less weight, it is also the fact that the Municipal Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Surdulica were founded in 1946, that 10 years ago, as Mrs Banovic said, a complete reconstruction of the municipal court and the public prosecutor's office building was carried out, that the technical premises were equipped to the end, that there are all the conditions for the court and the prosecution to work, and the estimated value of these facilities is currently over 90 million dinars. I think by withdrawing the basic court, or by abolishing the Municipality's court in Surdulica, you'll do long-term damage, given that this property will slowly, in time, be lost and perished. Here, too, it should be mentioned that with the concept of such a law, since I am talking about the Municipality of Surdulic and these two municipalities, Vladic's Han and Bosilegrad will certainly question and work on the decision of judicial and prosecutorial interns. What is important in this context is that you received one of the bad prices from the European Commission in the context of poor education in Serbia. If you haven't done anything in eight years, I don't think you should, in that second degree, deny the right to those who want to progress and perfect themselves in practice. You will agree with me that human resources are very important for our perspective and that all positive and normal reforms, in this case, the judiciary, will objectively not be able to be implemented without competent, professional and capable people. One of the reasons, perhaps the most important reason why I think you were obliged to accept my amendment, is the fact that you mentioned, which you insisted on, which is investor protection. I would remind you that in the previous term of local self-government, four very serious companies, Coca-Cola, Knauf, RS Partners from Russia and the Canadian-Australia Corporation "Dandi Noble Metals", have come to the municipality of Surdulica. All these serious companies and investors expressed their desire to be present, expressed their will to stay and invest in the perspective. I think you're going to send a very bad message to these four companies through this government move, and then you have to consider the fact that you're going to send what kind of message to potential investors, who would come to the Surdulica municipality because these four big world companies are present. In addition, I have said this from this speaker before, it should be pointed out that in the previous term of the local self-government of Surdulica has been declared leader of regional sustainable development. We have defined ourselves as a modern and quite decent concept of development, and the government's message, the government's move to abolish the Municipal Court in Surdulica, will certainly contribute to the collapse of the built image of the government in the previous term of local self-government. The mandate of the local self-government in the previous meeting is deliberately potential, given that the dominant political force in the mandate was the SRS. In the new mandate of local self-government, the local government certainly does not work. Today, the second session of the SO has been suspended, the coalition is almost out of breath, and the good part of that coalition is made by DS. If they're not staffed and able to run the city on one paved path, I don't think you government people should be their accomplices to that, or, at least, society. We come to what may be most interesting and important. I said he was in power in Surdulica, among other things, and DS. I'm also a councilman at the City Hall. I got 22. 10, call for session SO, the president of the SO is the DS lady. This session of the Assembly was to have, as the first item of the agenda, information on the proposal of the Ministry of Justice for the abolition of the Municipal Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office and to take a stand on it. There's a conclusion. All the SO committees made a unanimous decision. It's not binding for the government. I don't want to break anyone's heart with that, but why am I saying that? We have made a unanimous decision to send a request to the Ministry and to all competent state authorities to reconsider this decision and this position of the Ministry. What's interesting is that at that local level, members of the DS not only insisted, but also voted on it. I mentioned this because I believe that my amendment and the proposal to remain in Surdulica is fully legitimate, because it is supported by representatives of all those living below and who, in a political and any other sense, decide and act. It's supported by the National Minorities Office, it's supported by the Association of Lawyers, and I think you should take all this data, the facts, the arguments, and take it as serious and very rational. I'd end up thinking my amendment isn't irrational. I think the arguments are completely justified. In the context of this amendment, I have submitted two more amendments, which are a logical follow-up to this amendment. Speaking of these amendments, I will make further arguments concerning this proposal, but I think you should accept this. I think that the concept of judicial reform and the insistence on rationalisation in the judiciary in this way are completely wrong, that it will absolutely not ensure the efficiency of the judiciary or reform of the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9062	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. There are three minutes and 30 seconds available to the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9063	Actually, I answered on the basis of Article 225. The Rules of Procedure, but it is no problem for me to use the remaining three minutes after this amendment by counterpart Dragan Stevanovic. For the sake of the public, I would like to remind you that five hours ago we asked Parliament Speaker Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a notice, what is happening at Darka Mladic's house, why are human rights violations of Mr. Darka Mladic and his family, why have the police searched, with cameras present, with some TV? Although, they weren't in the house, they were around, I don't know what they were waiting for. Is it possible that in a house which is 24 hours under surveillance, as well as the entire Youth family, they can do something, or hide someone, and in spite of the eyes of the officers who are around them at any moment? We did not get the information, although Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic said she was taking a break about 11 hours so she could ask the authorities for an adequate explanation. Given that it's been five hours, we insist on getting information on what it's all about, are there any special orders being fulfilled and, if so, whose? Is this a distraction of public attention from the real and real problems that exist today in Serbia, the problems of the economic crisis and social misery, the problems of the deployment of Eulex on KIM territory, the problem of the lack of a draft budget in front of MPs, although all deadlines have expired, or is it something else, we assume, related to the visit of Serž Brammerca to Serbia? We have seen news coming these days that Serge Brammertz is asking to suspend the broadcast of a domestic series, "My cousin from the village", and today we have seen in the media that Olga Kavran, a spokesman for the UN tribunal, says the tribunal has nothing to do with it and that they have no idea that they're asking to stop broadcasting that series. If so, then it is an additional question – who is the one who is bothered by this series and who is it who has thought to violate the Constitution and fundamental human rights? Since it's been three minutes, I'll get back to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9064	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9065	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is a law that has caused the greatest controversy in the National Assembly, when it comes to a set of judicial laws. Undoubtedly, the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to abolish 104 municipal courts and thus complete a change in the network of courts and prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has upset the public, and has prompted MPs to also discuss in principle, and particularly in the debate, highlight everything they consider to be major shortcomings. Our MP group, the DSS, believes this bill has really big shortcomings. With these amendments we have submitted, we have shown how we see the concept of solutions to these laws and through a serious and constructive discussion we are trying to convince the Government of the Republic of Serbia that this bill is withdrawn from the assembly procedure. There are several reasons why this law should be withdrawn from the congregation procedure. Members of our parliamentary group pointed to all these reasons – absence of criteria, vague concepts, let's say, great contradictions in reasons why certain municipal courts exist, and there are no municipalities in the area. A bad message, when it comes to a policy of even regional development, is an inconclusive argument that corruption is much less in smaller courts than in larger courts. All this indicates that this bill is not good and that it needs to be withdrawn from the congregation procedure. What has also caused major controversy and the activity of MPs from several parliamentary groups, including some of those parliamentary groups supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia, is the fact that a really large number of municipal courts are being abolished in the AP Vojvodina area. We will be witnessing that, if this law is passed, there will be only eight basic courts in the AP Vojvodina area. Eight basic courts, of which, these seven courts are courts that will be in the centers of the district and another court in the municipality of Vršac, in the area of the Southbanat district. It is not clear how the Government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the Ministry of Justice, decided that a large number of municipalities in Vojvodina, which have a large number of inhabitants, which have municipal courts where the large inflow of cases is on an annual basis, should be left without municipal courts. I will only remind that some municipalities, which have over 60,000 inhabitants and the serious economic potential, in which it is present, through investments, a large number of large world companies, remain without municipal courts. In Srem – when it comes to Indji, Stara Pazova, Ruma, in Bačka – such as Baka Palanka, Vrbas, Vienna, large municipalities, Odžaki, Apatin, which, despite natural potentials, demographic potentials and the fact that a large number of foreign companies are present, remain without basic courts. That fact is also a very bad message to the citizens of these municipalities, and to all those who want to influence that the economic environment, the social environment, and to say the demographic environment in these environments improves. Our MP group has invested a large number of amendments trying to make these lacks of IDs and we agree with all who have said that a great injustice has been done to these municipalities on the territory of the Vojvodina. We ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice to take seriously the consideration of our and the amendment of other parliamentary groups that respect these facts. We do not dispute the right, we believe that it is good and we support it to be outside the district seat and the Court of Justice in Vrsac, we asked the question – why is the Court of Justice of the South Banat County of Kovin, in a municipality that has almost 40,000 inhabitants, or in the White Church, in which the Court has a centuries-old tradition, and what did my distinguished colleague Jojic speak of in his presentation? Two serious municipalities in the territory of the South Banat district certainly deserve to remain the primary courts in them. I say, not to dispute the fact and support that the Vršac municipality itself, with great economic potential, should have a basic court, we extend that story to other municipalities in Srem, and also to Indjia, and Stara Paz, and Ruma, and Shid, and especially to Baka, where we think that a large number of large municipalities are drastically damaged. As a parliamentary group, we have obtained a large number of data on how these courts worked, what is the number and what is the inflow of the case. You will see that in courts, like Kovin, the inflow of cases in 2007, there were 18 thousand, to a municipality that has 36,000 inhabitants, which is a very large number of cases. Imagine now that all these objects should be removed from this municipality, and this municipality is very important for its economic potential, located in the Danube, there are very large perspectives, or the White Church, which is also a municipality with great potentials. I say, it's terrible to send a message that a municipal court, which has such a great tradition, in the White Church, is now completely abolished. The essence of all our amendments to Vojvodina is that there are huge potentials in a large number of municipalities in economic, economic and demographic terms in Vojvodina. A capable and efficient leadership has managed to attract serious investors, has sent a message that there is potential for economic growth there and now we are sending them, in particular, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and probably the assembly majority, a message that the courts are being abolished. I appeal once again, I call on the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure, to take into account all the arguments that the MPs have said, and which have been presented over 120 amendments, to make a serious analysis of these objections and to come up with a solution that will indeed be appropriate for the needs of these municipalities, but also for the needs of the judiciary. Because we cannot allow what is the basic right of citizens - the availability of justice, to be the most cruelly broken in this way, especially let us not kill the potentials and all the prospects and hopes of large municipalities in Vojvodina, by abolishing the courts. We ask once again the Serbian government, in front of the DSS Parliamentary Group – withdraw this extremely bad bill from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9066	The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic, so the MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I see that Madam Minister is not here, I hope he will join us, since there are some misunderstandings regarding the information held by the City Court in New Vienna. I support the amendment of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Jovan Palalic, to Article 3rd point 8, which refers to the Municipality court in Novi Bece. I don't think there's any legal basis or any other reason for the City Court in New Vienna to stop working. The draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia has regulated that the Novi Becjej Municipal Court ceases to work as a court, and the competent court for the Novi Becej municipality would be the basic court in Zrenjanin. The draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia, which abolishes the Municipality's court in Novi Bece, without any basis and arguments and the documents mentioned were drawn up without any analysis and justifiable reason. It is unacceptable to propose that the new network of courts eliminate an unequal burden on the business of individual courts, as well as to achieve, allegedly, economics, i.e. that smaller financial resources are needed, because the essence of legal solutions is that the work of courts is, above all, effective, to reduce the final court procedure to the minimum, but also to enable citizens to have effective and adequate judicial protection in the exercise of their rights. I don't think the criteria used to shut down the City Court of New Vienna are objective. Nowhere has they been specifically analysed, because, if it had been done like this, surely there would have been no such proposal for a solution. When drawing up this proposal, the following facts should be taken into account: that the City Court in New Vienna belongs to the oldest courts in the country, because there is more than a century. The Novi Becej Municipal Court building itself was adapted in 1995, with the funds of the Republic of Serbia, and is one of the most functional facilities in Vojvodina; it has about a thousand square meters, six courts, nine office spaces, as well as other auxiliary space, which is fully dedicatedly built, adapted and reconstructed for the municipal court building. Analyzing the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia, where it is listed which municipal courts are being shut down, i.e. They stop working, as well as the municipalities covered by these courts, which are Batocina, Bolovac, Brus, Vitina, Zagutica, Lipljan, Novi Becej, etc., that I do not think, rather, that the draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, did not have objective criteria, because it is certain that the municipality of Novi Becej cannot be compared to most of the municipalities listed, on any basis. The territory of the municipality of Novi Becjej covers 609 km square, where more than 30,000 people live, most of which make up the Serb population, in some number of 70%, 20% are the Hungarian population and 10% of the other national minorities. In the territory of the municipality of Novi Becej, regardless of the present transition and problems, business entities such as IGK "Polet", "Nexe Group", "Sokolac", "Kluz", "Biserka" from Kuman and others, where the population of Novi Becej municipality is employed, as well as neighbouring municipalities. Unfortunately, of all these companies I've listed, one thing works successfully. All others are either before bankruptcy, or before liquidation, or in major problems, so that citizens of the municipality of Novi Vienna need that court to exercise their rights. All this is saying that the economic resources in the territory of the municipality of Novi Vienna deserve to have a competent municipal court in this area. When it comes to adequate judicial protection of citizens and if the aim is to bring the judicial authorities closer to the citizens, in order to exercise their rights, it is obvious that such a draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia does not have any justification. In the meantime, I have applied for a review of the decision of the Republic Justice Committee. Since the original bill envisioned the abolition of the municipal court in New Vienna, but without a court unit in New Vienna, I don't know if that and how much it contributed to New Vienna, however, getting that judicial unit, although we find it small for such a municipality. I must also refer to the amendments to a few of the ruling majority MPs, which envision the establishment of a basic court in Vienna, with a department in New Vienna, which is worse than the solutions provided for by this law. Geographically observed, in fact, there is a small distance between the headquarters of the local government of New Vienna and the municipality of Vienna, but they do not rely on each other, because certain parts of the municipality of Novi Becej, i.e. certain local communities of Novi Becay twice as far away from Vienna as Zrenjanin. Besides, between Vienna and New Vienna there is no rail transport at all, and there are no direct regular bus lines. In this situation, a large number of citizens in the municipality of Novi Becej, given their economic situation, would not be able to, in order to achieve their constitutional and legal rights, settle even material costs, i.e. Costs of the trip, not to say how much time is wasted for a trip to do a job that, as you know, takes only ten minutes. If a new basic court in Vienna were to be responsible for the territory of the municipality of Novi Becay, this would mean, by automation, that the second-degree body is the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. The municipality court of Novi Becjej, whenever it came to jurisdiction, was directed towards the Zrenjanin District Court. Zrenjanin is 50 km away, Novi Sad is 100 km away from individual settlements, so this legal solution in practice would reduce and prevent citizens' rights, i.e. for no reason would they be exposed to large material costs and harassment due to poor traffic connections of the Novo Becej area with Novi Sad, noting that some of the settlements in the municipality of Novi Becej there is no railway transport to Novi Sad at all. It should also be taken into account the fact that the municipality of Novi Vienna belongs territorially to the Central Bank, not to the South Baška District, and given the competence of the Zrenjanin Police Administration, the Zrenjanin Chamber of Commerce, the Office for the Catastre of immovableity, the subsidiary of Novi Vienna, the PIO Zrenjanin Fund, the jurisdiction of the Zrenjanin Trade Court, the jurisdiction of the future court for the violations of Zrenjanin, i.e. that all these institutions, meat and real, cover the municipality of Novi Vienna, does not make sense that one segment of the judicial authority is regulated in this way. Also, when considering which municipal courts survive in the area of the AP Vojvodina, where some of them get department status, it is noted that they did not take objective criteria, i.e. The size of the area, the economic structure, the number of inhabitants and the direct geographical proximity of the second court, because individual courts that receive the status of the department, such as Ada, Kanjiza and Temerin, have far fewer judges than the City Court in New Vienna. What is the problem, and what the ministry gentlemen should pay attention to, are those differences in information, those that are real in the City Court in New Vienna, and those that are owned by the Ministry. According to information from the Ministry, you have been informed practically that the City Court in Novi Bece serves about 2,000 cases, which is not true, since the municipality of Novi Becjej has over 6,000 cases annually. It should also bear in mind the applicable criteria for determining the necessary number of courts and staff in courts and according to these criteria, in the Municipality Court of Novi Bece, the number of judges for the last three years is from 7.33 to 6.64. Finally, the work of the City Court of Novi Vienna, i.e. its quality and efficiency, as well as the fact that it is one of the rare courts in the AP Vojvodina, which has been fully trained to conduct the procedure in both Serbian and Hungarian. For the sake of all this, I think you should accept Mr. Jovan Palalic's amendment, or, which would be even more meaningful, to accept Mrs. Milice Radovic's amendment, or, ultimately, to withdraw this bill further. (All the time speech by MP Sasa Maksimovic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9068	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to talk about Mr Palalic's amendment, I must tell you, Madam Chairman, that you have violated article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I reported neatly immediately after Mr. Palalic's date, and you, for what reasons, gave a word to a citizen to address him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9070	People's MP, I warn you of a common obligation to respect Article 104 and to honor each other with respect. National MP Sasa Maksimovic received his word. He was given the floor because it was the basis for his status as a MP and the mandate he has as a MP. I warn you to pay attention to the way in which, contrary to Article 104, you address other MPs or make false claims about the speaker of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9071	Madam Chairman, it is more than obvious that these SRS apostates have the support of the assembly majority and Boris Tadic. It's absolutely clear to us. It's good that the citizens of Serbia see this. Let's go back to the bill of law and Mr. Palalic's amendment. A similar amendment was submitted by Mr Petar Jojic of the SRS. That amendment has been accepted. Given that MPs are mostly talking about municipal courts in the environments from which they come, the views of all MPs are the same – that this bill is bad, that there would be no such amendment that the law is very good, that these laws that you want to adopt are not able, even good to rewrite. There are enough amendments to this set of laws, which are 500 amendments. I come from Odzaki municipality, I hope you know that, unfortunately, in that municipal court, there was a murder in Serbia in the course of last year. The judge who was killed in his workplace was from where I came from, from Ratkov, so it's hard for me to talk about it. Absolutely, I don't want to arbitate what happened, but unfortunately, the murder happened. But the Court of Ojacese has a wonderful and rich tradition and I don't think there's any excuse for that court not to continue to work. Now I'm going to try to give you a certain number of facts why I think so. First of all, I think there's a question of justification of a new network of courts and prosecutors in our country. We are quite skeptical when it comes to the new network of courts and prosecutors, because, in our opinion, it is prematurely made, since it has not previously been profiled and publicly presented relevant parameters that justify and rationalise the new network of courts and prosecutors from the perspective of the state's interest, too, by placing such a network of courts and public prosecutors in the interests of citizens. Because, in our opinion, all state institutions are also formed because of the needs and interests of citizens. The municipality of Odzaci is situated on a surface of 420,000 m2, with about 37,000 inhabitants of different nationalities. So it's a multinational environment. The current statute of the Municipality of Odžaki explicitly states, in Article 5, that the official language is a Serbian and Cyrillic letter, and in official use are the Latin letter, Hungarian and Slovak, in a manner established by the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. I would like to point out that there are 18 nationalities living in the District of Odjaks. The Odzac municipal court has a long, bright and rich tradition, because it was founded before World War I, and in its being, it was a long time and a happy court. At this point, I note that the Odjaks are 36 km away from Somboro and four local communities: Karavukovo, Deronja, Ratkovo and Lalić, between 40 and 50 km away, and the question is logically raised – would the abolition of the Municipal Court in Odžaks for Citizens be a gain, given the material conditions in which the vast majority lives, or would that be a devastating handicap for them? We are inclined to believe that this is other than the real situation on the ground and among the citizens. If the Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Odzac are not doing well, the perpetrators, which are passing categories, should be replaced, rather than abolished by institutions. It is common knowledge that today we have a tendency for people, especially young people, to concentrate in large cities, such as Belgrade and Novi Sad, because in smaller areas they have failed to find work, and in large cities, according to our knowledge, roses do not flourish, because the cost of life, including rent, is very large and brings them to the edge of existence. That, of course, affects the increase in crime of various kinds. Detaching courts and municipal public prosecutors from the place where citizens live is contrary to European trends, as there is clearly no regionalisation and raising living standards in regions to a higher level. Another reason why the Court should not be abolished in Odzac is that the municipality of Odzaki borders the Republic of Croatia, and the border through our municipality, along the Danube River, stretches within 10 km. In that border belt are two border crossings, i.e. two bridges, one railway, which has been reconstructed and already partially put into operation, and the other, which represents and manifests the most modern variations of architecture, and serves for the transport of goods, faces, money and all types of vehicles. It is widely known that the railway node in Bogojevo, along with Vinkovce, was the most distinctive railway node in the old Yugoslavia and also in the Balkans. It can be expected to happen again as soon as possible. These two bridges are the most frequent in the state of Serbia and represent the most remarkable exit to Western Europe. For now, only freight traffic is taking place on a railway bridge between Serbia and Croatia, and during this year, or at the latest at the beginning of next year, rail passenger traffic is expected to be released. These border crossings, counting both bridges, are attractive for the Republic of Croatia, because, in our knowledge, a lot of criminal acts have been carried out in the border belt and that extra-border crossing across the Danube River, where the transport of various goods whose traffic is generally prohibited. When I say, various goods, first of all, I mean smuggling. Unfortunately, Odzaci municipality is one of the municipalities where privatisation is, I am sure, to the worst extent possible, worst done in all of Serbia. The Ojaci municipality today has over 6,000 unemployed, at the Bureau. All companies that were proud not only of Odzak municipalities, but also of Vojvodina and Serbia, today do not work, or work very few of our citizens. We will not say anything about the municipal public prosecutor's office, because it is logical that he shares the Court's fate, we will just point out that the insight into the work and quality of the work of the District Attorney's Office Odzaki has, almost daily, the Sombor District Prosecutor's Office, and in particular the Republic Prosecutor's Office from Belgrade, which conducts annual controls. The prosecution is personally prepared to accept new obligations imposed on them by law, such as the application of a new law on criminal proceedings and other dealings, as we believe the Republic Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade feels the same way, based on a long-standing insight into the work of the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office. I think all of this I've made is enough, and this number of amendments that have been submitted by, above all, the opposition tells us enough about how bad the law is, that the ruling majority has submitted a lot of amendments, and that this law should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. I would also like to point out that the very work of the Municipal Court in Odzac is not satisfied with certain citizens, and I must say here to our public that we have had cases that have been applied in the Municipal Court in Odzac. I'm saying this because in Odzac municipality, since 2004, we've been in power of the SRS and we've had very big problems with the opposition in Odjac. First of all, I mean DS, which has very little support for the citizens of Odzac municipality, but, however, at any cost, it also puts pressure on the municipal public prosecutor's office and on the municipal court to try in any way to remove the president of the municipality and the SRS from the power in Odzac. I'm sure that won't work, because the 2008 elections showed that the SRS exercised power, above all, in the citizens' interest, and that also showed the number of votes we received in 2008, because, with 30%, we came to 45%, and the Democratic Party fell by about 5%. However, pressure remains to remove the SRS from the Odzak municipality, as has been done throughout Serbia. I'm sure you won't succeed, there's a lot of cases at the Court of Justice in Odzac where criminal charges have been filed against the president of the municipality and the SRS, and none of them have found a standoff in the Court. These processes were ongoing and we were released from responsibility, but all the applications the SRS filed against DS leaders were simply not processed. That's enough to say that the ruling majority has an impact on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. Regardless of all this and various attempts, I think citizens are the best judges and they said theirs in the election. I'm sure you won't succeed in your intention, because it's obvious that, regardless of the will of the citizens, you want to reverse their will and be in power, absolutely, in every municipality and in every village. That, dear gentlemen, is not democracy. All this work you're doing won't be good, and the procedure itself, Mrs. Komic, now, here, to me, when I put this out, clearly says that these SRS apostates have the support of the ruling majority. But it's good to see the citizens of Serbia. I'm sure they'll punish you for that one day and don't look forward to it, because they'll play the bear in front of your house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9072	The vice president, Mrs. Judita Popovic, called in on the amendment. I'd just like to let you know that today we'll be working after 18 hours, until 7:30, in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure. I would also like to inform you that we will have a delayed transmission of our work, from 18.10 hours to 19.30 hours, because at that time RTS will be transferring the European Handball Championship to Serbia-Germany.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9073	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Secretary, the LDP remains in favour of this draft law on the seat of the courts. We're staying on the whole argument we've made so far. I'd just like to point out one fact when we're talking about these duchess courts, and that's by now reading to you the courts that, in fact, are abolishing this law that the proposer assumes will be adopted. So it's about courts in Ada, Alibunar, Apatino, Backo Palanca, Backo Topola, White Church, Vienna, Vrbas, Vrsac, Indjija, Kanjiži, Kovačica, Kovina, Koli, Novi Bečevci, Odžci, Pančeva, Rumi, Senti, Stari Pazova, Temerino and Titell. By mistake, I put Vrsac and Pancheva into this story. It's a little depression, thank you for helping me fix it. I always accept criticism and expect others to accept it, if it's real. Therefore, this is a list of 20 courts that will not be adopted if this law is passed. In fact, there are eight courts left in Vojvodina. This means that judicial authority is reduced, judicial work is reduced: eight cities – eight courts. So, the entire jurisdiction, earlier, 28 municipal courts, is now taking over eight pieces, eight basic courts. That means those eight will have to work for them 28. That means they're going to have so many times more work, that means they're going to have so many times more workers, that means they're going to have to show that this bill was justified and that they're going to prove that the network of courts is really rationalized. They'll have to prove that the courts have changed, that there's no more corruption, that it's getting much more professional, that it's getting much more thrifty and that the courts are much less costing the state, before anything else is said. So this is how we refer citizens to this by reducing the number of courts, reducing the number of courts, as far as cities are concerned, we get a good solution, we get fair courts, and we achieve the goal. However, this is not the case in the judiciary. The problem in the judiciary is solved systematically, corruption is not solved by one move, corruption is solved by a system-based approach to the case. Therefore, if we expect the duchy courts to work really well, then we should set the problem up, not by reducing their numbers, but by instructing them to work in the only possible way, in a legal way, in a fair, fair and professional way. It's not, I'm undermining you again, so we're reducing their numbers, but in some other way, which is, first of all, that the ability we choose to work in future courts is indeed professional and worthy of these judicial functions. It can't be done by linear means, it can't be achieved by the simple end of the work of courts in certain places in Vojvodina. The objective is achieved by selecting and selecting judges who will be worthy of the task. If we reduce the number of courts in Vojvodina, absolutely, we won't get better courts and better work, unless it's a system reform, in the sense that it stops the function of those who are not worthy of judicial functions, which is something that should have been done eight years ago when we started reforming. It's that lustration, which is not going to happen again, and we're going to be in a situation where in a few years, if this law goes into effect, we have to change the network of courts again, we have to get those courts back to their original positions, and we're just going to make one big mess again, with no real result. So far, as much as the judiciary has changed significantly over the past 20 years, in a negative sense, in Vojvodina, it has still worked above average, as far as the expertise and quality of their work is concerned, so there is no reason why these courts are now being abolished just because the state considers it a time to save. State authorities should be courteous, state bodies that carry big money, bureaucracy, agencies, therefore, all that are budget users, and are a great burden on the budget. The court and the judiciary are a great burden on the budget, but it is the only possible way, the only way to ensure that laws are applied and that we are civilized, not anarchical society, which does not respect laws and courts. It's not a shame to spend money on courts, it's a shame to spend money on bad courts, it's a shame to spend money on bureaucracy, on a disorderly administration, which is too big, and these administrations are everywhere, from local to republican level. Therefore, we remain that this law must return to the beginning, that this law must be excluded from this procedure, that it ceases to be forced to adopt it as one of the reform laws, because it will not produce the results that are expected of it. Unfortunately, our courts today represent, especially in smaller places, some cultural headquarters, civilizations, some social progress, and only because these places have nothing but these courts. Unfortunately, everything else is abandoned, so we would get into a situation, if these courts were to be abolished, that even now provincial, those places became even more provincial, even darker and stopped being interesting for some professional part, some more cultural and some more civil part of the population. So we're going to have big migrations again, a big departure from smaller places to centres, and that's not the solution if it's in our best interest to do decentralisation. And decentralisation is the one that should be in everyone's interest and everyone's goal, because individual plants, individual places, as headquarters and developmentists, can't be as much in the minority as they are now. So we now have centres like Belgrade, Novi Sad, possibly, Nis, perhaps Kragujevac or Zrenjanin, and all other places remain on the side, outside the money flows, out of development. When such a comprehensive reform of the judiciary is being done, there is much to be thought of, that full social life, both the life and the future of a country, should be considered in order to achieve the desired goal. I therefore continue to appeal to the legislator to carefully read the submissions and submit amendments and to consider carefully whether these amendments make sense and whether their proposal for a law makes sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9074	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mrs. Radet, although your parliamentary group has three and a half minutes left. You want to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9075	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, because I cannot draw your attention otherwise that you violated Article 85(4) 15 minutes ago. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This view of Article 4, 85, reads that, exceptionally, the President of the National Assembly may decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work after 18 hours, if there are reasonable reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs. You, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, have not acted in accordance with this article and have not told us what are the specific reasons why we will be working longer today than the Rules of Procedure of Predicted Working Time. Perhaps you are justified in getting a warrant from Boris Tadic to do so. That's no good reason for us. It might be a legitimate reason for us to be in a situation where, for example, for a few days now, we have a draft budget law for 2009 in the assembly procedure, so let's respect that fact. That's not why, because we still don't have the draft budget in the assembly procedure. Then, one day again, when it comes to order, you will say that the MPs of the SRS are obstructing the work because they want to talk about this particular subject. For us, it would be a valid reason, let's say, if you said - let's continue our work tonight, and we'll discuss tomorrow the proposal for a resolution on KIM and the deployment of Eulex on KIM territory. You didn't plan that either. For us, too, would be a valid reason, let's say, that you said, let's work longer today, and tomorrow we'll talk about a state strategy related to the economic crisis and an increasingly visible social misery in Serbia. You don't care about that either. So, what are the justifiable reasons, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to work longer than planned working hours? You weren't in the O.R., you were away when I reminded you, and here, that I wouldn't report back, unless, of course, you made me, please tell the MPs in public, you promised today at a meeting with representatives of the parliamentary groups that you would inform the MPs about it, what is going on in Darka Mladic's house, on whose orders there are the police, who are doing the search. You said you'd inform Parliament and the public. Please do it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9076	I would first of all like to tell you what I have already told the heads of the parliamentary groups, and I have assumed that you have contacted the MPs of your parliamentary groups, that this was done on the orders of the prosecutor, the special prosecutor; the instance, institutions and individuals in the country are engaged, and that is the answer to the specific question of what is going on in Darka Mladic's house. As for the reasons why I extended my work today, when we put these points on the agenda, our assessment was, all of us, that reforms in the judiciary were necessary. The initial step in these reforms is legal provisions, i.e. laws that will enable it. It is something that is extremely urgent and important for the citizens of Serbia, for the truth, for justice and justice. Since we have agreed almost unanimously, on several occasions, that that is the case, I can do it any time I extend my work on these laws to repeat that sentence. So, the assessment of the largest number of members of Parliament's groups is that this legal matter needs to be worked more intensively, and especially when it's some time that maybe we don't use the most rationally all of us. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9077	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have so far expected Mr Jovan Palalic to withdraw his amendment. But I can see it didn't happen. Mr Palalic's amendment, with correction, to Article 3, especially point 8. If the amendment were to be adopted, and I see that none of the previous speakers mentioned it, we would practically come into a situation to forget the two municipalities, and that is the municipality of the city of Zitiste and the municipality of Secnica. If Mr Palalic's amendment were to be adopted from word to word, what would happen to the citizens of Cresnje and what would happen to the citizens of Zitisto? They're not covered anywhere, and that's not precise. If Mr. Palalic was joking, as Mr. Aligrudic was joking with his amendment yesterday, I understand the joke, but I think it would be correct for the amendment to withdraw.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9078	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Radet, so Mr. Palalic, or I haven't seen you at the same time. Will you give Mrs. Radeta a head start, Mr. Palalic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9079	Madam President, I must, apparently, draw attention to you, too, that we are today discussing the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. I don't know, really, who you've reached an agreement with about this bill by some speedy procedure here, when, Malten, the undivided opinion of all the MPs, in any case, of the representatives of all the parliamentary groups, is that this is a bad bill of law. How many times in two days, how many discussions in detail about this law have we heard a proposal to withdraw the bill from the procedure. We don't see what it is that you think is so urgent, especially that this is a bad law. If fellow MPs are truly principled and respond in the voting day as they reacted to this speaker, then it is quite clear that this bill does not have a majority in this House. In addition, even if this law was passed, it only takes effect on 1 January 2010, and that is not the reason why we are now doing something back-to-back because, if this law comes into force, it will be in less than 13 months. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, they're not the real reasons you just said. I say this, first of all, because of the public, because of the citizens of Serbia and the employees of the courts, and the judges and prosecutors, in fact, the employees of the judiciary, and those in the judiciary and in the courts for violations. Just to draw attention to them that they can sleep peacefully for more than a year, how surely this, for them, terrible law, for the citizens of Serbia, indeed a terrible law, will not come into force. We're convinced he won't even be brought in. In any case, it won't take effect for 13 months. When it comes to Mr Palalić's amendment and the proposal to delete in Article 3 - point 6 of the Law, a fellow Member of the Court of Justice for the same area, Peter Jojic, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, has included in a more comprehensive and comprehensive manner the amendment and made a proposal for a resolution of all courts in this territory, i.e. in the area of Vršac Municipality Court, Bela Church and Kovin, municipal courts in Zrenjanin and Novi Becej. As counterpart Jojic suggested, the amendment was also accepted by the government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that in this part, really, the law as it is, how much overcoming the problem and that the better solution given by fellow Jojic for this area is for these courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9080	He has the word Mr. Palalic. Here you go. You have six minutes left within the time frame, Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9081	It's the replica. I just want to say that the whole concept of amendments that we have submitted had a very clear objective, which is – that this law is withdrawn from the assembly procedure. That is why I propose that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopt, primarily, the amendment of our colleague, Milice Radovic, to Article 3 – that this whole system be set up as such, to return to those solutions which are now, which are only correct, with all those proposals defined in the current laws solutions, for all municipalities, for all courts, for all departments that exist in the bill. Either withdraw the bill from the assembly procedure, or adopt amendments to our parliamentary group, primarily, adopt the amendment of counterpart Milice Radovic. The solution we have proposed is the most complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9082	There is a word from Vice President Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9083	Madam President, I'm reporting for your notice that we'll be working after 18 hours and it's the judicial reform laws. In fact, there is no such example or similar, I think, in any country that is running for EU entry – that one of the reform laws has so few members, and over 100, I don't know what, 118 amendments. That says enough about the law being neither reform or good. The MPs rightly speak, not because they drag, as our people would say, their own athar, but people know the environment they are returning to – that citizens are bitter because of the fact that the Serbian judiciary and the repression of municipal courts are one measure that is not the standard of Serbian citizens and what is the need for justice and justice, but because it is a direct condition for Serbia's entry into the EU. But, alas, what would be said, when will it come to this? The moment these troops, who are on their way, catch Mladic, but it will not, thank God and for the joy of us who support Serbian General Ratko Mladic, do never – when Mladic is on the plane to The Hague. The modesty and truly excellent knowledge of Master Dejan Mirovic, the MP of the SRS, are the virtues of such an educated and congratulatory man. I will, even though he is sitting in the hall, know that he is uncomfortable and always thinks that I am biased when I talk about his scientific work, just to show you in what way you are doing this issue of humiliating Serbia, unconditionally fulfilling everything, is approached by your fellow magistrate Dejan Mirovic, and it is about today's action, for what you are doing at the house of Darka Mladic, for the passing of laws that humiliate us, for statements by Vukcevic, for the warrant of Dilparić, for all that today's Serbian state authorities are doing to further humiliate us, of course, for the visit of Brammertz. In one chapter on how we are humiliated and in these arguments against the EU, Master Dejan Mirovic also included General Mladic's question and officials' statements, those of which you depend on -- and you, Mrs Malovic, will you continue to be a minister, whether this government will exist, whether Tadic will survive in that place, to steal the mandates of the SRS, to humiliate the Assembly, to serve you things that citizens cannot, because they are in terrible misery and poverty, to swallow as a reform, because they have nothing to eat, and to suffer further humiliation. Here, I'll finish it, don't mind me, if I read just a piece of this really rich and thorough work by my colleague Mirovic. So, the issue of extradition, says counterpart Mirovic, General Mladic, is more important than making a political verdict for genocide. Then he says that, as it is, despite the pro-Western government in Belgrade, between 2000 and 2008, eight years of humiliation, over 40 people have been handed over to The Hague -- new conditions for Serbia are constantly being laid down before Serbia in connection with The Hague tribunal. Neither will the SAA, according to the Dutch foreign minister's interpretation, nor will it enter into force after the signing, until Mladic is on a plane to The Hague. (President: Time, Miss Jovanovic) What would happen if Mladic were really extradited to The Hague? Would that bring us a better life, asked counterpart Mirovic? Of course not. (President: Time, Miss Jovanovic. Here, I'm done. Because a completely certain and guilty verdict would not only cast a major historical mark on the Serbian people, but also put the issue of paying reparations and abolishing Republika Srpska on the agenda. Is this law, Mrs. Malovic, and joining the EU so valuable, says counterpart Mirovic, not only Serbian radicals, but most Serbian citizens as well? Thank you, and I'm so sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9084	Anyone else want a word? There's a word Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9085	Given the threats, warnings, and announcement that you will take us out of the National Assembly, I call on Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You mentioned this member as the basis for the extension of the session of the National Assembly. As an MP to the opposition, I cannot influence that because it is the autonomous decision of the president of the National Assembly. However, for reason of common sense, I have to point to the injury, because the fact that you've stated that it's a valid reason – why it's necessary to work after 18 hours simply doesn't stand. This type of "emergency" is not provided for in Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because these laws, and when passed, shall enter into force during that period, but shall apply from 1 January 2010. We're approaching January 1st, but in 2009. I am absolutely sure, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, given the high-minded thinking of DS ideologist Srdjan Milivojevic and his promise that after winning, they are asking the Assembly to deal with life issues of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's why we're working, to end this set of judicial laws, so that laws that are far more important and other issues that are far more important to the daily life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia come into order. I am taking the opportunity to remind you that I am adopting this initiative by Mr Milivojevic, but it would be good if you could join this initiative another whole set of issues that have opened here, such as: financing the DS election campaign; did Sutanovac raise 40 salaries, so that he would never work in the state service again, and today he became, today he is a defence minister; is that some kind of abuse, if anything else, then, even if political abuses? I would ask a question to be resolved – who buys foreign currency on the foreign market? I must draw attention to the fact that what has been done for eight years in the field of monetary policy of the Republic of Serbia does not exist anywhere on the globe. It's probably supposed to be about 150 dinars, but we don't have a serious debate. No one's going to discuss it. Where is our production, export, other people's imports, these are central issues. Next, I appreciate you wanting us to talk about Eulex as soon as possible, talk about all this stuff...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9086	Time. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic and Petar Jojic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Damnjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9087	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, is my intention to point out from this place some of the problems that concern the functioning of local self-government in the municipality of Zaguvica, where I come from, by the way. This is a picture and an opportunity of a large number of municipalities in Serbia, of course, related to a set of law on justice, more specifically, for the bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, where I have suggested that the Municipality of Zabubica remain the primary court. If we look at Article 2, as regards the misdemeanor courts, paragraph 29 – Criminal Court in Požarevec, for the territory of the municipalities of Velika Gradište, Golubac, Žabbari, Žaguvica, Kučevo, Mali Crnić, Petrovac on Mlava and for the town of Požarevac, with departments of the Court in Velika Gradište, Golubac, Žabari, Žagovica, Kučevo, Mali Crnic and Petrovac on Mlava. So what I'm saying is that this is about departments, and here we fully agree with the solutions we've come up with. Unfortunately, in the case of basic courts, the legislator did not foresee the possibility of forming a department, with which we would agree, but there was the possibility of only judicial units, which means a completely different organisation of work and choice of judges in the Primary Court in Požarevec, so the amendment could not go in the direction of the department's proposal. To remind myself only, in the case of basic courts, Article 3rd point 24 says: “The basic court in Požarevec, for the territory of the municipalities of Velika Gradište, Golubac, Žabari, Žaguica, Kučevo, Mali Crnića, Petrovac on Mlava and for the town of Požarevac, with judicial units in Velika Gradište, Žabari, Žagovica, Kučevo and Petrovac on Mlava. ” Of all the municipalities of Braničevski County, however, the municipality of Zaguvica is in the most difficult situation. Most of you probably wouldn't have heard of the Frog if it weren't for the weather forecasts and those announcements that say: the impenetrable path, Bor-Jaguvica, over the Black Summit. Unfortunately, it's our brand. The Municipality of Žagubica is one of the largest municipalities in Serbia – 764 square kilometers, one of eight municipalities in Braničevska Management District and the most distant from the planned headquarters of the Primary Court in Požarevec; it is 85 kilometers away. The extremely bad road infrastructure, very bad climate conditions, a very pronounced depopulation, is a large number of people in dispersion, with no industrial capacity, with a very high unemployment rate, are just some of our arguments that we want, at least, to encourage the prophesy to think that maybe he didn't really predict everything. We said that judges are elected in the basic court, here, specifically, in the Fireman. These centers have demonstrated power so far, and now they are given even greater power. The influence of local powers is, in relation to the power of large centres, the least said, ridiculous. The expectations of all of us are to go to decentralisation, and here the judiciary is, right here, centralizing. Globally, the number of judges does not change, or decrease very little. The wages are not reduced, on the contrary. We're wondering how many cars will it take, how many drivers, how much fuel, to judge judges impartially in other places? Of course, we do not expect judges to travel on buses on such bad roads and bad weather. We're wondering, where's the savings here? We've got 20 families of judges and lawyers in Zabobica. Do you expect them to stay and live in the Frog and be elected to the Fireman? Article 3 says judges are elected for court, not a judicial unit. So, the state, most legitimate, encourages a professional ability to move to cities. It's a frame that needs undeveloped environments. It is a housing that has been educated by an underdeveloped municipality, where it is from these areas, which can best understand the habits and customs of its fellow citizens. They built houses, got or built apartments, defined themselves as living in small areas, and now the state forces them to go to larger centers. It was supposed to be the other way around, that the state would reward them and encourage them, stimulate them to stay in these areas. Is this a good recommendation for educators, teachers, teachers and doctors, or will they also stimulate them to go to warmer ends? We're reading in the paper these days about the reorganization of high schools. The Zabubica municipality has one high school, which, after all these expectations, is likely to live to be shut down. A law on even regional development is expected. What are we doing here evenly? Does that law even make sense under these conditions? Devasted, undeveloped, rural municipalities require better roads, plumbing, sewerage, kindergartens, schools, infirmarys, health homes. This country, of course, costs a lot and takes a lot of time to make it happen. Article 3 of the Law regulates the seats and areas of jurisdiction of the basic courts. Of the current 138, there will be only 34 basic courts and will allow a much greater number of judges to handle cases, thus achieving more objective court work and equating court practice. A small number of judges and a small inflow of cases are also mentioned. On the contrary, I can say that the municipal court in Žaguvica has more cases than the courts planned to remain. In addition, geographical distance and development of the road network have also been taken as criteria for the education of the basic court. What's the problem here? The development criteria were taken, not the non-development criteria of an area. Here are the criteria made according to the developed, yet undeveloped collateral damage. I agree that we must meet some of the standards that the EU requires of us, but in the West villages and cities are equally developed. It's not one to nine, it's like ours. Negatin leads to the shutting down of entire settlements in municipalities. Such municipalities, without courts, are beheaded. Do you have any idea what the annual budget of the Frog Community is? As much as it costs to decorate Belgrade before the New Year. Many of us would like, of course, to live in the benefits of, say, Belgrade, but can we all live in cities? Of course we can't. Can any area develop without professional personnel? Of course he can't. I agree we need the quality of the trial. This will be achieved by estimating the work of all judges, continuous training and disciplinary responsibility. There is an unpleasant situation, and that is that during the parliamentary term, a number of MPs are witnessing the suspension of the national court. It is the fate of several MPs, and of the ruling coalitions and opposition, of every third MP here, or of the region. If the Ministry and Government create a policy without respect from the field, then the question arises why are we sitting here? It's clear we're here to defend citizens' interests from where we come from. Thanks to the election results and the G17 Plus, the Municipality of Zaguvica has for the first time MPs and for the first time can bring its problems to this most important place in the country, therefore, in the Republic Parliament. This fact doesn't make me happy at all if there's a public court shut down this time. Generally, a whole set of judicial laws, more or less, can pass, but I think this one about the seats of the courts must suffer changes. Any law cannot be applied equally well to Belgrade and other municipalities in Serbia, precisely because of various specificities. If the state is already planning decentralisation, even regional development, the restoring ministries should create policies and laws with special reference to undeveloped areas, above all, because of the white plague, because in a short time there will be no people on the premises unless something urgent is done. This is just part of the problem we face every day in the field, part of the field experience, and I hope I've been clear about taking the arguments out of the field. This is my obligation to my citizens, too. I am a reasonable man, who respects all the principles of his party, the G 17 plus parties, all coalition agreements and agreements, but I ask you to think about this one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9088	The word is Mr. Maras, then Mr. Jojic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9089	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, uh, as well as the other amendments try to make this bill acceptable, namely to reduce the damage he might cause. I wanted to ask you something else, Madam Minister. Do you know what the Constitutional Court does? On 16 September, the LDP submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality and legality of the Oil-Gas Agreement, as we consider it, and this silence that comes from the Constitutional Court confirms that the Oil-Gas Agreement is not in line with the Constitution. In our initiative, which, I repeat, we submitted on September 16th, and I will point out what the date is about, we stated that it is a member of the 9. The Agreement is contrary to Article 82. Constitution, Item 1, Article 84. The Constitution No 1 and 2 to Article 86; Article 10 is contrary to Article 82(1) to Article 84, Article 1, Article 1, 2 and 4; Article 11 is the opposite of Article 1 point 4. Agreements, etc. So, we've listed several members of the Constitution that have been hit by an oil-gas agreement, or we've asked the Constitutional Court to do the job for which it exists. Three months is the silence of the Constitutional Court. The reliable information we have from those who participated in negotiations between the Serbian and Russian sides is that the Russian side has asked the Serbian side – what about the assessment of the constitutionality of a party in Serbia? They got guarantees that the Constitutional Court would keep quiet. Why is that a problem? This is a problem because tomorrow there are indications that there is a possibility of a contract being concluded between Russia and Serbia when it comes to no longer an oil-gas agreement, but only an agreement on the sale of NIS. So, there are indications that only NIS will be sold, that in this way everything we said when we had a debate on the Oil and Gas Agreement will confirm that it was true, that we were right and that you 200 and the change you voted for for that oil-gas agreement was mistaken. What does this matter, Madam Minister? Because every institution in this country is expected to do its job, and so is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has been silent for three months at the initiative, the Constitutional Court considers that the Constitution has not been violated. The Constitutional Court would announce within 24 hours that our attempt to bring down the Oil and Gas Agreement, because we said it was contrary to the Constitution and that it was wrong that everything was in line with the Constitution. However, the Constitutional Court will remain silent for three months and we will be in a situation that tomorrow will be possible, and possibly from Sunday, a contract between Serbia and Russia, where you, as the ruling majority, will be very helpful in that, and also those from the opposition who voted, and I believe that you have been deceived and I believe that many have done so in good faith, because they have feelings for Russia as they express themselves, and the first people of this assembly, and in general, the state, that you believe that this will bring about a better Serbia. But since it's all wrapped up in some very secret, when we read today what the Russians are offering to your so-called. An oil-gas deal, I believe each and every one of you is a disgrace. All you've been saying is the opposite of what the Russians are offering. I have to quote a few things because it is of the utmost importance for the state of Serbia and its citizens. Gazprom's demands that planned NIS investments, worth 500m euros, be invested not immediately, but from 2008 to 2012. The Russians are asking to leave them until December 2009 to prepare a programme for the reconstruction and modernisation of NIS, while the decision on the investment structure would only be made after a done study on the feasibility of investment, in half of 2010. The Russians say the NIS should be in charge, to borrow the loan. The Russians further say they want to guarantee the same level of market protection until the end of the 2014 investment programme. Mrs. Malovic, the Constitution has been overrun. This is a monopoly, the Constitution has been broken, the Constitutional Court is silent. The incredible damage will be done to this country, and you'll only get in trouble if you make a deal with the Russians. The Constitutional Court will one day have to deal with the truth and determine that it is the treading of the Constitution. They're looking for a delay in market liberalisation. Furthermore, the Russians demand that current taxes not be increased, no new fees are introduced, no other payments. They're asking for a three percent mineral rent, instead of 30%, as much as it is on average across Europe. They are seeking privileged treatment, such as the NIS as the Serbian state firm. You are now giving another state treatment such as no company in this country, no domestic or foreign. The Russians are also asking that Serbia guarantees that it will not punish Gazpromjeft as the new owner of the NIS, because of outdated equipment. Also, the Russians, in Article 10, are asking for Serbia to bear all costs incurred by environmental pollution. We've been saying all these things for days here, while we've been arguing, and we've been getting answers to all of that -- no, it doesn't have to be written in the agreement, it's going to be regulated differently. Please use your authority as minister of justice. We started the public today. It is impossible for the Constitutional Court to remain silent for three months on this issue, which is crucial to our country. A big problem will be if a contract is concluded, and one day it will be found that all of this was against the Constitution. What happens next? Yesterday I had a little controversy here with my DSS colleagues, thinking that the way they're asking questions -- when the budget is not quite correct, for the simple reason that last year too, at this time, the budget was late, however, a little earlier, but it was also late. However, we see today, I believe that this is not done in any country, the statement by Bojan Pajtic, Prime Minister of the Vojvodina Executive Council, that Vojvodina will receive 90% of the NIS privatisation, in order to compensate for the gap in the budget, i.e. the constitution was trampled by this government. To repeat, 7% is guaranteed by the constitution that Vojvodina will receive from Serbia's budget. Of course, they won't get that much, they'll get 4.6, and now they've found a solution -- when we privatize NIS, you'll get 90% of that price. It's a disaster, they don't even do it at the market. People, this is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Greater Vojvodina, thus compensate. We noted that in the LDP, we are prepared not to submit any amendments to the budget because of this difficult moment, so that as soon as possible, because of the citizens of Serbia, but what you are doing, this is... Of course, I come from Vojvodina, last time it was documented. I've submitted several amendments, one to Article 4. The budget law, Article 5, to those members who speak on the NIP funds defined for Vojvodina, etc. Indeed, and when the budget was passed last time, I fought hard to honour the articles of the Constitution, and I am deeply convinced that those 7% were not respected either in 2007, nor in 2008, but in such a way as to buy the support of the Vojvodina in the Assembly, and here, above all, I think of those who say they will not vote for this law unless their amendments are adopted, and the Executive Major Vojvodina has given consent to such a network of courts. Then we have two parties who are based in Vojvodina to teach here and to learn that they will not pass if their demands are not adopted, so they are doing the same now with the budget. It is not the defence of the interests of the citizens or of the Vojvodina or of Serbia, it is the sale of the interests of the people of Vojvodina, it cannot be traded in such a way. If the Constitution writes – 7% for Vojvodina from the Republic budget, then it must be 7%, or no one should respect the Constitution anymore. If we said that the oil-gas agreement means NIS, building a master's pipeline, "Banatical Court" to start working, then it can't be just a sale of NIS and we'll buy your support from Parliament. That's not done in any market. There's a morale, there's a responsibility, and this is, indeed, everything, just not that. Madam Minister, there must be a way you can use your authority. Please, along with the public, because we've held a press conference today, where we've met all the journalists and shared our initiative, to find a way for the Constitutional Court to react, to do its job, to respond to an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality, for the simple reason that, unless it responds, only two, very bad epilogues are possible. The first bad epilogue is that we will be crushed by the Constitution, that it will be trampled by those who have tried in all ways to vote the Constitution in two days. I think it's disastrous if it's done by power, by those who rule, who have brought the Constitution, to step on it. The second bad situation is that after a certain time, certainly, the Constitutional Court will have to make a decision and an assessment that will say that our initiative is correct, that the Constitution has been overrun, but then you will have a problem with someone much stronger, with the Russian Federation. I think this is of great importance to the citizens of this country and to the state itself, and in such a difficult situation as we are in, the Constitutional Court would have to do its job, it would have to respond to this initiative, for the simple reason, that there would be no irreparable damage. Once again, please use your authority, and those who make a budget in ways that don't even work on markets that trade citizens' interests, I say that neither seven nor 77% of the Constitution that would be defined for Vojvodina are enough to work in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9090	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9091	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, Members of 225 and 226. The question of the perpetrators of the duty of the republican public prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic, but this is a question I want to meet the whole public and all the citizens of Serbia. This is a tragic story, which means not only the collapse of the judiciary, but the collapse of the elemental morality. What's this about? As you know, on October 5, 2004, two guards were killed in a barracks on Topcider. That's when there was a so-called. The military judiciary and you remember how it was, one variant, one guard killed another, the other one killed this first one, etc. This raised the suspicions of the entire public, the citizens of Serbia, every layman, and then an independent state commission was formed, which, at the end of 2004, four years ago, said the guards were killed. The prosecution didn't have enough of that, so it demanded that one compromised finding, one compromised investigation be put into the same level with what the profession is, which is conscience, which is knowledge, which is science, and so the super-skilling in early 2005, is now the end of 2008, so the subject was walking from Wisbaden to the FBI, so the FBI ballisticsman said there was no talk of suicide, any other guard, because no one could kill himself from a distance of 3.30 feet away. So the guards were killed. And it wasn't enough for the D.A. to file a motion to conduct investigations against the N.N. The perpetrator, one or more, committed the murder of two guards, rather than insisting on a new court medical skill. The elders of the families who were damaged opposed it. However, a new superjudicial medical skill was carried out, through the expert of the Okland County, who was proposed by the FBI, the man from our premises, Ljubomir Dragovic, and the expert in his findings from a month and a half ago said that the guards were killed. Just when we all expected a point to be placed on something that is immoral and immoral, and away from the law and the rule of law, the prosecution's new proposal to carry out certain investigative actions, but again to get it all back to square one. After four years, the prosecution remembered to hear witnesses, all those who were in that barracks before the event, during the event and after that event. But, not all, at the end of its proposal, this is the case for Ripli, this is not only twilight, I repeat, the rule of law and elemental law, this is no longer related to any criminal law, not to the CAP, but to any elemental morality, honesty and honor, it is also suggested that the ballistics skills of the FBI and the judicial medical expertise of Ljubisa Dragovic, it is an expert from America, a delivery to both court and military prosecutor, which has not existed for four years, and also to the experts hired by the VSO Commission, and for the sake of clarification and possible corrections or addition of its findings. So, there's no end to this story... (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done, so I won't answer again. So, instead of going into the investigation of who killed them, you don't want to admit that someone killed them, despite the findings of the experts the D.A. suggested; it wants the whole story back to square one. Parents whose children, Dragan Jakovljevic and Drazen Milovanovic, are killed again every day, decided to strike hunger. I ask those who do this, where will their soul be? This is a sin. Do they have children? Let them put themselves in a position of parents who are not their children, since they allegedly committed suicide, could betray neither the silence nor the parastos, whose life continues to be destroyed every day after that tragic October 5th, 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9092	Mrs. Elvira Kovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9093	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Maras, I could have answered the line, but Article 104, violation of dignity. First of all, I'd like to explain a few things, since there have been some untruths about the duchy parties here. I'm here to defend the SVM and prove that we are consistent with our principles. On the one hand, the budget was mentioned, but since the debate on the budget is still ahead, I'll talk about it very briefly. We're just asking that the Constitution be respected, which we didn't vote for. When we voted for the Constitution, we were abstentions. Of course we don't agree with 7%, because Vojvodina gives a lot more than 7%, but we advocate to respect the Constitution of the prescribed 7% and we still hope that the budget will respect those percentages; in that case we will support that budget. If not, we're still on the point of not supporting the budget. What is more important for today's debate is the law on areas and the seats of courts and public prosecutors. We continue to advocate the preservation of municipalities, i.e., they would be the primary courts - in Sainta, Bačka Topoli and Vienna. Of course we belong to the ruling coalition at both the republic and the province level, but we know that we are not giving any minister to the Republic Government. An extremely larger Vojvodina has indeed given approval to the bill, but it was a different version. This latest, most brutal version, which is the most rational and abolishing of the most territorial municipal courts, appeared on the website, in electronic form, I will remind you, October 28th, that in two days, October 30, everyone voted yes. I remind you that the SVM does not have a minister, there is no one in the government who could then vote or rebel. Our dear coalition partners didn't contact us then. It passed in the government on Thursday, it arrived in the assembly procedure on Friday, speeded up; after consultations, it was all put on the agenda and since then we have been praying and stressing the need to adopt these amendments. Apparently, our dear coalition partners have some joker up their sleeves, because no one listens to us and no one seriously wants to think about the amendments and the interests of the Duke. Just once again to point out, we're not threatening anyone at all. The SVM doesn't want to bring down the government. We just stand for important things, for our citizens, for our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9094	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Judith.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9095	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, reporting on behalf of Article 31 and Article 31. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure and I would like to refer to what we just heard about the decision of the Executive Council of Vojvodina of 20 November 2008. We are pleased that this fact has finally been accepted, that a decision has been made by the Vojvodina Executive Council on the establishment of a proposal for a network of courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So what we said was one fact, and we claimed it both yesterday and the day before. The decision was made on November 12th and reached the Assembly on 20th, 2008. We have seen that the SVM has been reacting spotily to the budget, over the 7% that would belong to the Vojvodina of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The budget has not yet reached the Assembly, it has not arrived to discuss it. We really don't know what the content of that budget is, what its text is. However, we have seen that it reacts very quickly. We could have expected it to respond to this decision by the Vojvodina Executive Council, which, indeed, is very harmful to the interests of the duchy citizens as far as the Vojvodina Network is concerned. The decision was made on November 12th, when the disputed law was already in the assembly procedure. The SVM could also declare the decision of the Vojvodina Executive Council. Apparently not, they've accepted that it is, and there is that decision. If that decision existed, they could at least look back at it, call it and say it - we disagree. Otherwise, in particular, I would like to underline that the duchy Hungarians are participating in the government of the province of Vojvodina, having the President of the Assembly, having all the possibilities and all the reasons to react, if the Vojvodina executive authority has already made such an adverse decision, which they have against, we have seen according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9096	Mr. Marash, and then Mrs. Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Malovic, Mrs Kovac, I do not want to question your desire to fight for the interests of your national minority and of all citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. I believe that's the way it is. So I ask Ms. Minister, Mrs. Malovic, to say - is this network of courts agreed with Tamas Korheco? Is it done with his consent and has the Executive Council agreed to such a network of courts?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9098	Mrs. Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9099	Article 104 - injured dignity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, President and all the others, I'll just answer for a moment. First of all, I don't understand the attacks at all, and I don't want this to go to some duel between LDP and SVM, because you saw, as far as this bill is concerned, that we totally agree, that neither we nor they like it, we even have more identical amendments. I really don't see the point of us fighting here. Let me explain to you what's probably clear here. We are part of the ruling coalition on the province level, as well as here, but just figure it out, we all know how the country's election went. The list "For the European Vojvodina" has an absolute majority, so in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to that calculation, this is one place where we are necessary, where without us this law cannot pass. That is why it is the four of us who object against this bill that continue to appeal to the Minister and Government to accept our amendments, because only in this case will we support this bill, and you all know that in the province, the DS has an absolute majority without us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9100	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS advocates the same status and network of all courts in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, not just the AP Vojvodina. Of course, it should be borne in mind that this network of courts in all of Serbia is upside down. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that what has been created, perfected, improved and reached a European level, when it comes to the expertise of our courts, that those 200 years can be destroyed in one day, and that day may be a black day for the judiciary, if the Serbian Parliament adopts this set of laws, especially if, as Mr Krasic said on Friday, it would, in the history of our judiciary, be recorded – a black Friday for our judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see how laws are passed in the Republic of Serbia. Vacatio legis, Dr Batić well knows, we are passing laws this year, but we are delaying their application for two or three years. Why? Because neither the promoter nor the government are sure whether these laws will be applied. That is why you from the Government are proposing laws even by an emergency procedure, but vacacio legis, as is the case with the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted two and a half years ago, and is due to be applied on 1 January 2009. But since it is a perverse and depraved law, which was passed, when its application occurred, would be a disaster, the judiciary would be blocked in a criminal area in the Republic of Serbia. The lawyers know that, and you, Madam Minister, you know, that's why this is a very problematic action. We can't compete with someone in the world and prove how we've passed over the last four or five years 400, 500 laws, or that in the current year we're going to pass a large number of laws. It's not an effect, it's not an effect. It's effective if we make less, but good laws. Mr Batić knows this well, in the countries of developed law, a good code has been prepared for 10 to 15 years, and with us we can propose a law for the weekend and that the government adopts it next week, by emergency procedure. That's very problematic. Madam Minister, with all due respect, I must say that this amendment, which my colleague has proposed, when it comes to Article 3 first point 24, refers to the General Court in Pogorevec. We now also inform MPs who have this bill, as well as the professional public, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in this area now, hundreds of years, have been established, exist and functioned by the following courts – Pogorec, Velika Gradište, Golubac, Žabari, Žaguica, Kučevo, Malo Crnic, Petrovac at Mlava. Now I ask, Madam Minister, give me an answer, which is the President who will be able to control these areas, and how will one President of the Court be able to exercise insight and control, to monitor the work of these courts, some of which will be, in Pogorevec, the basic court, and in these eight, seven, in fact, there will be units? This is a big problem. It is a large area, a large number of judicial employees, but most importantly, in this area live citizens who need to exercise their rights before a competent court. These laws are dangerous, especially when it comes to the law on the territorial organisation of the judiciary – it endangers fundamental human rights. How? Imagine when the one from Brodarev should go to Uzice or Kragujevac to exercise his right, or to Belgrade, because the Court of Appeal for Prijelje and Užice, the region, was supposed to be in Belgrade, so it is good that you accepted my amendment to be in Kragujevac, because it is 140 kilometers closer. Ladies and gentlemen, I find this set of laws excitable. He won't give any results. In public, especially the professional public, in the judiciary, a great fear has been created that it will now function. As far as criminal matter is concerned, prosecutors say - cases are getting lost anyway, now half the cases will be lost when we move 150 kilometers from that prosecution to this prosecution, so we'll have a situation that we won't know why we're going there in court when the case is gone. Secondly, it is not clear where the registers will be held – criminal, litigious, and outsider, and what will be available to the subjects. I am taking the opportunity, Madam Minister, to say that I recently addressed the President of the Supreme Court, regarding the working time of the courts in Serbia. The Supreme Court has informed me that the Rules of Procedure shall be brought by the President of the Supreme Court, but that the supervision shall be carried out by the Ministry of Justice. I ask you a notice and I ask you a question – will you tell the public, will you order your competent inspectors, i.e. assistants, advisors, to exercise control of whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and whether the courts respect what the Supreme Court has decreed? Please, this is a very serious matter. I repeat, in Panchev, here is Mr. Mikovic, if you don't believe me, let him plead, the party's working time is from 7.45 to 13.00 and for the third, fourth time, I ask – why is that? Madam Minister, working with customers from 7.45 to 13.00 hours? I had a chance today, a citizen came to me, a lawyer who came to the Assembly for another job, and he says, "Listen, please, you have asked a question in vain about the work of the Municipal Court in Pancheva. Why? Well, he says -- I went to confirm the statement yesterday, I was at 1:30, but they said -- closed, we don't verify statements, we don't work. Let the citizens know when they can come to court to exercise their rights, order them, that's your discretionary right. You have rights, but you have an obligation, and I believe you will. Order, on state spending, tables with the name of the court and working hours. He can't have that reporter who's confirming statements there, the clerk, the bureaucrat, asking for money, and not knowing how much of his salary, which is what we're up against, because it's the ones with the low personal incomes, that he's working part-time. What are we gonna do when the citizen comes? (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: It's not his fault. It's the president of the court's fault. It's the President of the Court. Control it. The situation in the Serbian judiciary, the good part, must be attributed to the presidents of the courts. If you could blame them, you'd know what the effect would be. Where the good president of the court is, there's a far better effect, and the results of work, and efficiency, and the celery and economics have been achieved. Which means the parties don't have the right to enter the office if it's 13 hours, they don't have the right to enter the grantshop, past 13 hours, they don't have the right to be hit by a stamp, a reception, a submission, to verify their contract in court, and they've crossed 200, 300 km, from one place to another, where they have to go with a particular party, which is in a contractual relationship, to verify one correction, etc.? So, the office has to work from 7 to 15:30. It's court hours, as far as I know. Get these people on the ground. I can commend the Belgrade court. The first and second Belgrade courts confirm statements by 15:30. That, in any case, should be appreciated, there's a great frequency and crowd, but these people do. And if you go somewhere smaller now, you can't verify it. The party cannot gain insight into its case. The lawyer comes 200km and says he is going to Prepolje to gain insight into the criminal record, because today in Belgrade Janko Jankovic hired him to defend him before the Municipality court in Prepolje. A man walks 200, 300 km and tells him the court is out of order. Why? It's been hours, and it's only an hour. Strengthen discipline. I see you're up for that discipline. Turn it up. Unfortunately, you inherited it in a very ugly state, a difficult state. Fight to put in order those who do not comply with the law and do not respect the Rules of Procedure. That's my advice and a big request. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I am taking the opportunity to, in terms of the provisions of the article. In 225 and 226, I ask one question and ask for an answer. I got a letter from the workers of the chemical industry, or "Azotara," because it was isolated from the chemical industry. His name is Milan Pavlovic, from the Banatski Brestovac. The worker, Azotare, says the nitrogen fertilizer factory, Azotara Pančevo, is privatised, that a contract with the buyer was concluded in 2006. There are several customers, one from Lithuania, the other from Ukraine, the third from Belgrade, etc., not to mention, there are more. "Azotara", which has more power in its composition than this sale, to this day, stops several times and does not produce artificial fertilizer, which is and how it is necessary for our agricultural producers, to be cheaper than that which now those who are engaged in profits importing from abroad and for 50 to 100% more expensive, sell artificial fertilizer to our individual agricultural producers. Who's to blame? It's the government's fault. Who's to blame? It's the Privatisation Agency's fault. I'm calling the police and the D.A.'s office, when are they gonna arrest those PRIs? My people, how many national and people's torments and sweats have been sold for nothing? They sold "Azotara" for 13m euros in 2006, and under "Azotara" was a new plant for the production of artificial fertilizer, i.e. carbamide. Under the contract, a five-year-old buyer could not alienate anything more than 5% of the value of privatised capital. What did he do with that famous consortium? He has unmounted a new factory built by the state of Serbia, Serbian citizens and Azotare workers. They've unmounted the new Carbamid factory. They loaded trains and sold abroad for 32m euros. In five years, they were supposed to invest in production. According to the privatisation agency's assessment, it was found that, of the 13m euros in price, eightm euros was the amount of products that were within the factory's circle. That guy got the whole factory for five million. He sold the finished products. He doesn't invest anything in production, and by contract he was obliged, and now 1200 workers are on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9102	Mr. Jojic, bring the end. You've been talking for more than 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9104	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9105	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members of the People, I must agree with what Mr Jojic said about the issue of the work of the judicial administration. For clarification, I will say that the court's rules of procedure are brought by the minister of justice, with the agreement of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, but that the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia prescribes working hours. I had a chance to see how the counters worked. Two or three months ago, while I was in office as justice minister, I stood in line and waited on the counter for an overture of a purchase contract at the Municipal Court in Belgrade, so I could directly see that it was done in the administration, not just on the basis of a review report from the Justice Department. Since there was also talk of working time at the previous session of Parliament, when discussing the laws that were on the agenda at the time, in the framework of my powers, I ordered the supervisory office to control regular and extraordinary controls, and to control working hours. I can deliver it to you if you want, where you can control the working hours of those courts in which the judicial oversight services go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9106	I don't think anything hurt you, Mr. Jojic. You don't have a word. Indeed, there was nothing offensive. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9107	Madam Chairman, I'm asking the Minister of Justice. The fact that you ordered that within the framework of regular control, no, no, no, these are extraordinary opportunities in Serbia and need extraordinary control. If I were a minister, in 24 hours, I'd have a depecator standing by the President of the Court on the table, from when to when.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9108	Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9109	Since Mr. Jojic called me here to have insight into the situation in Panchev, he is, I have learned about the situation in Panchev since 1985, when I began actively to deal with the legal affairs of Panchev. The fact is, as Mr. Jojic himself says, work hours have now been introduced since 7:45. The fact is that at a time when Mr. Jojic was assistant minister of the working time of the counter, the certificate and everything else, it was not since 7.45. I think it's a good idea for Mr. Jojic to extend his working hours. I think it's a good thing the current, current minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, has taken active measures for what has not been done so far. Congratulations, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9110	Replica, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9111	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Madam Minister, the fact is that I was at the time of that crisis and the bombing deputy minister. The minister of justice was from the SPS. On many occasions, I came to a very sharp conflict with the minister of the day, because I stood up, among other things, for the next. He called a meeting of the president of the Belgrade district courts and while holding the session, I wrote a warrant in the form of orders. That was 1999. While he was holding the meeting, I was forming an order, where I ordered the presidents of the district courts to report within eight days to the Ministry of Justice of Serbia on how many judges, who is the president of the court, how many criminal cases there are, the year in which the case was first registered, criminal and litigious, and not when it was abolished and returned, so he portrayed it as a new case. At that time, I had great opportunities and could not cope with him, although he later supported it. So, what happened? I can tell you, in 1999 I found, in Pogorevec, that there were judges who hadn't written the verdicts for three years. When the President of the Court came to me to the Ministry, because I was looking for it, enters the door, asks for reception with me, the secretary introduces it, says – the President of the Court of Fire has arrived. Good afternoon, you said. I'm the one. I said, aren't you still in prison, aren't you still arrested? He says, "Why?" Well, because of abuse and unemployment, chaos, miracles and crime in that court. The man is pale. I said sit down, though, and we'll consider it another way. So these are methods. The minister of justice has the right to issue a fax deposit, fax, however you like, to request tomorrow's report from all the presidents of the courts -- to say when citizens are allowed to come to exercise their rights in court, when the court is working with the parties. So when's the court's work with the parties? Do the parties have the right to access their case in litigation, criminal and out-of-parity and in a garter after 13 hours or not? When you get that report, then send in control, so if you see that you've been lied to by the President of the Court, his resolution on the agenda, or the disciplinary procedure. Then, in that case it won't come to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... to the point that they... Please, for that reason, it is necessary that, however, the "carved cut" be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9112	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapcevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Lapchev, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9113	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the Law on the Reorganisation of Courts, and in it I have proposed that in point 7, which would be reshaped, i.e. to add new points, i.e. to return the old courts, as they are today organised, and the Municipal Court in Zajecar, the Municipal Court in Boljevac, Književec, Sokobanja, as well as to point 18 – The Municipal Court in Alexinac and the Municipality Court in Svrlig. This is, therefore, in the spirit of the amendments tabled by the MPs of the DSS, believing that this law is inappropriate, that so much of the abolition of courts, basic courts, misdemeanor courts is absolutely irrational and that the reasons set out in the proposal for this law do not exist. I'm going to look back at those dishes that were suggested to be deleted. The proposed law deletes the Bolevac Court, one of the smallest municipalities, has only 14,000 inhabitants, one of the poorest. In this Bolovac, which was a town town 150 years ago, a court was established in 1848. So, after equal 170 years, that court will be abolished. The Court will also be abolished in Knjaževec, although Književec is one of the largest municipalities in southeastern Serbia, with 35,000 inhabitants, with 1,200 km2 of surface area and 86 settlements, and I note that in 2001, it was named the best court in the Republic and that in recent years it was one of the best courts in the urgency of the resolved cases. Otherwise, 14,000 cases are brought to this court annually. I think this is not logical, because now the Court of Justice will be in Zajecar, there will be a department in Bolovac, Sokobanja and Književec and, after the general re-election of the judges, it is very likely that the largest number of judges that will cover this area will be from the center of the district, therefore, from Zaječar, and that most of them will have to travel to the farthest places, first of all, to Bolovac and Sokobanje to judge by various cases. This, however, will achieve the part relating to the balance of the number of cases, but certainly will not affect the rationality of the work of the courts and judges, especially efficiency. Why won't it affect efficiency? Because that judge who gets the case to judge in Sokobanja will have to travel from Zaječar to Sokobanje some 60 - 70 km, on a very bad path, and the question is whether he will one day process more than one case. Not to mention the cost of these trips. Whether a judge who, say, has no driver's license, will have a driver to drive it, or will travel by buses that go twice a day, so will come either at 10, or at 12 a.m. during the day, or at 5 a.m., which certainly cannot affect the rationality and efficiency of the work of those courts. I also suggested that the Court of Justice not be put out in Aleksinec, which has an even longer tradition, and there is not a single valid reason, which you have stated in the bill, that this court be extinguished. Namely, the Court was founded in 1836, over 180 years ago, 170 years ago, I apologize. Aleksinac is also one of the huge municipalities, there are 60,000 inhabitants, there are over 70 settlements, very dissociated, and in this court more than 14,000 cases are brought together annually. If I were right the other day, when I was saying that this would inevitably lead to migration from these poorest municipalities, says the information found in this book called "Demographic Statistics of Serbia", which is very devastating and that every minister, especially the Prime Minister, should have this statistics whenever any law proposes to the Serbian Parliament. In Bolovac, which has only 14,000 inhabitants, it moves from 350 to 400 inhabitants each year, 22 of which were moved in 2006 with high professional training. Now imagine, when that court is lifted in Bolovac, it will surely go along with several families with high professional training because they will have nothing to do in Bolovac and they will have to look for a job elsewhere. Do you know what it means for such a small municipality when 20 or 30 people leave with high professional training? This means that their families will go after them, and those people who have lower education will go, and we will have what is going on, unfortunately, especially in southeastern Serbia -- devastated municipalities, extinguishing large villages, which have tradition and more centuries, and we will be in a situation that, perhaps, in 20, 30 or 50 years and those townships are dead. Today, unfortunately, in an economic sense and differently, they are dead, but it may happen that the largest number of people will go from there and that, instead of decentralisation of Serbia, which we are all talking about, they will come to a fatal centralisation, where all educated people will flee to cities, and those who have no business, will seek their arrest outside their birthplace. The harmful consequences of this law are multiple. In addition to what I have mentioned, there is no rationality, although it is listed as one of the reasons for such an organisation of courts, the adverse consequences will only arise, with the most migration of the population and centralised towards large cities. By abolishing 104 basic courts, the most likely will be affected by the most underdeveloped and poorest municipalities, those already devastated and from which the population is evicted. When the court goes, and the basic or the misdemeanor, how do we think we attract potential investors to invest in these municipalities and keep the population in these areas? When the court leaves, the next step is to leave school, when school leaves, remains, possibly, a home of health, and when they leave, only priests remain and eventually the settlement shuts down. I don't think anyone in this country, especially in this room, wants a scenario like this, but I'm afraid by adopting a law like this, inevitably, after a certain time, will come to such an outflow of the population and to an increasing number of people in the municipalities, especially in those border areas. In this way, it is likely that one number of people will be reduced in the number of employees in the state administration, but this will certainly not happen in those centres that will now be further strengthened, because they will have more authority and more judges, or civil servants. You need to know that there is no surplus staff in the state administration in the poorest municipalities. There are no extra employees in Svrlig, neither in Sokobanja, nor in Surdulica, nor in Dimitrovgrad, nor in Kursumlia, nor in Blac, nor in Bosilegrad, Leban, Babušnica, Brus, Bolovac, Vlasotinac, therefore, all those environments that will lose their courts by this law, but there are in ministries, agencies, where we have dozens of assistants, state secretaries, and each of them has a minimum of one, and some of them two or three secretaries. There are extra employees there, and it's, above all, in the headquarters of state authorities. So I ask you either to accept this amendment and other amendments submitted by MPs and ruling parties, and in such a way as to correct this law, or to withdraw it, because if the MPs who submitted the amendments are consistent with themselves, especially the MPs of the position, the ruling parties, that if you refuse these amendments, you do not vote for the proposed law, then you have no chance of having it adopted. More than 30 amendments have been tabled by members of the ruling parties. The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, has submitted several amendments. When they don't vote for this law, how will he go? Take care of what I said. So this book is very instructive and talks about the devastating truth of Serbia, which is that every new legal project most affects the poorest, those who have the most unemployed, those who have the smallest incomes and those who are on the edges of the country, and that the centres are further strengthened, above all, Belgrade and major cities. I'm not saying this because I'm coming from a small community, so I'm gonna get shot myself. I'm from Nis. With this bill, Nis will receive additional information, but I know what the situation is in Belgrade, where an inappropriate number of people are coming, where you have traffic congestion, where all the live lights in Belgrade and have been centralized. I'm saying for reasons why people don't move to Nis from surrounding municipalities, but to stay and live where they were born and contribute to the development of those environments. In this way you will help a large number of high school students move out of the places where they live today, and for which they have been educated. This country has funded their education to help, precisely, those environments, not to flee to large centres. This is one of the most convincing reasons why this law should not be adopted in this form, or at least to be adopted amendments, which are very meaningful and which are trying to reduce regional differences. If various laws are adopted previously that will centralise state institutions and the jurisdiction of the state, and in x years comes the law on even regional development, what will we develop? We're not gonna have anything to improve in those environments, 'cause everybody's gonna get out of there. I'll read you one piece of information that's fratern. Nis is a large centre, has 300,000 inhabitants, has a university, has relatively developed infrastructure and economy. Last year 3,588 people moved out of Nis, of which, 275 with high professional training. If in one Nis, people with high professional training can't find a job and their greed, but they're running to bigger environments, what do those who have barely 50 or 100 high school students, who are going to be extinguished, will be put out of high school tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and where will we be? Please respect all these reasons and all that Mr Damjanovic, MP G17 plus, representative of the ruling party, spoke, these are reasons that must be acceptable, especially for MPs of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9114	Mr. Markicevic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9115	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, have been 24 hours since I asked for the government of the Republic of Serbia to answer my question. I didn't get the answer. President, I want to inform you, since you didn't chair the session yesterday, it's about the already famous amendment of the NS, which has been accepted by the entire assembly. Since we all know that the fiscal year, the budgetary, financial, as it is already called, lasts until December 31st of this year, I have asked the question, is the NS amendment, which has adopted, I repeat, the entire Assembly, being implemented and what is happening with that amendment? In response, I received a letter, unsigned – The Office of the Finance Committee in our congregation. I am these people and colleagues from the DS, who are now standing up, by the door, grateful, but I did not ask for an answer from the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but from the government. Now let me read to you, that all Serbian citizens hear this well, and then they'll see how our ministries and ministers function. So: "Republic of Serbia, National Assembly, Finance Committee, No. 400-2428/08, December 4, 2008. In the 2008 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", in section 22 of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Chapter 22 of point 1) of the Budget Fund for Sport Financing, at EC 511 – Buildings and construction facilities, funds have been provided for new 12 million dinars, according to an amendment from the National MPs of the NS since 31 October 2008. I repeat, we were proposing, the Assembly adopted this. It is the amendment of all 250 Members of this assembly. Further: "The funds provided by the 2008 budget rebalance can be used to build new sports grounds for persons with special needs", as we asked from the NS. Listen further: "In a telephone conversation since 4 December 2008 with representatives of the Ministry of Finance in charge of the budget, we have the knowledge that withdrawal, i.e. The use of these funds depends on the submitted requirements and projects for building a playground for persons with special needs. Ministry of Youth and Sports: The Ministry of Youth and Sports should review the submission of requests and projects as soon as possible, to deliver them to the Treasury of the Ministry of Finance, with a request for withdrawal of funds, no later than 12 December 2008, for collection. The Office of the Finance Committee." Does anyone in this country need to talk more about what this is about? This is about implementing parliamentary decisions, the Budget Rebalancing Act. Is that what MPs are supposed to do now? Is that the Ministry's Law, for the Ministers? So, I call in line: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which has the Disabilities Sector, Assistant Minister Vlad Pesic, State Secretary Ljiljana Lucic. No one's done anything. It's December 4th, and I'm told that by December 12, someone has submitted projects. We all keep our mouths shut because we're shocked. It's a shame. President, I'm asking you for an answer, because I'm going to be answering all day tomorrow, every hour, to tell you if the previous chairman is, yesterday, whether or not this question has been delivered to the government or what the answer is. I expect it from you, first of all, because I know you're a good woman, a humanist and a doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9116	I informed myself, Mrs. Comic insisted and the question was addressed yesterday to the government, it was repeated today. The word is Mrs Judita Popovic, and then Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9117	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, of course the Municipal Court in Zajecar must remain. Of course it's the same situation with Boljevac, with the Bookie, with Sokobanja, with Nisa, with the Aleksinac, and with Svrlig. The explanation is the same as the one I gave before, in relation to previous courts, therefore, in previous exhibitions. The court has been seen by us as an institution of government. The court is with us the establishment of power. Court, equally – power. So if one small place has a court, it also has a part of the government that comes from Belgrade, because we are a very centralised state, the centre is in Belgrade. So, then, the center is one of its parts in the place where the court is located. To take away the court of that place means to take away the feeling that it has power in its ranks. When it is taken away, they remain without a single fraction of the government and feel completely abandoned. Otherwise, the government that sits in this assembly hall, because we have a coalition in power, we have an opposition that is an opposing camp of authorities, always implies certain power, certain privileges. But what's going on? That power, that power means some responsibility. The problem arises when this responsibility must be shown and must be expressed. Then we have the situation as in this case with the duchy courts, with a network of duchy courts. What's going on? We have the province's power, we have the republic's power, we have the coalition in the Republic, we have the coalition in power in the province. So, we have an alliance of duchy Hungarians that is participating in power in the province, and we have an alliance of duchy Hungarians who are participating in power at the republican level. What does that mean? This means that they have opportunities, have powers, so they can take certain steps, certain obligations, be accountable to their electoral body, above all, and, otherwise, to the citizens of Vojvodina in general. That's the responsibility. But what is the result of these authorities, and their powers, since they are in the coalition on both levels? The results are amendments, amendments that are not accepted by the government. So the result is zero. I understand the indignation of SVM that their amendments are a result – zero. However, I cannot understand the fact that their member, Mr. Tamash Korhec, was one of the participants in the debate and in deciding on a proposal for a network of courts in the province of Vojvodina. I don't understand that the proposal, the network of courts, is identical to the government's proposal and then the SVM shows up here and says, we've made amendments, but we're just part of the coalition, we can't. You know what, when someone's in power, then he can't complain, he can't moan. He should bear responsibility, or he should take steps, to decide whether he will remain in that power in which there seems to be no power, or authority, or I don't know what, or simply give up on that authority, which is far more fair to the voters and the citizens of Vojvodina. Otherwise, he remains in power, complains about the coalition with which they are in power, which, by the way, refers to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. So, all this is done, and the result is nothing, and in the end it is forgotten and said, yes, we are for Vojvodina, yes, we are for the citizens of Vojvodina, yes, we are for the national minorities, yes, we are, we are for the European principles, and in the end Vojvodina will remain with this network of courts proposed by the province's executive authority and which is also proposed by the Republic Executive Authority. I underline, all these parties that have proposed in their amendments that the proposal, the network of courts, be changed in power. So, the only party that is not in power, which is consistent in its view that this network of courts is not suitable for the citizens of Vojvodina, therefore, for all citizens, and not for national minorities, is LDP, and that's that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9118	Mr Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr Krasic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9119	Ladies and gentlemen, for objective public information, I'd like to get a little involved in the controversy, because the truth is always somewhere in the middle. So why am I doing this? Because in 2001, on behalf of the then government of Zoran Djindjic, I defended here, so to speak, the Law establishing certain powers of the AP Vojvodina, popularly called the Omnibus Law. Under the law, the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina had the authority to propose certain acts to the government and, on the basis of the powers laid down in that law, the Executive Greater AP of Vojvodina proposed to the government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, and the network of courts, prosecutors and criminal courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Just to resolve this dilemma, what they proposed there differs from the proposal of the Government and the Ministry of Justice, in the part which IV of Vojvodina proposed the existence of a basic court in Senta, which, in the Government's proposal, or the Ministry of Justice, is not discussed, and they also suggested that there is a department of the Court of Appeal in Subotica, which, too, is not in this proposal that we are discussing. So it's not mine to get involved in, but the truth works, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9120	There is a word from MP Zoran Krasic about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9121	Yesterday, around this time, I turned my attention to the legislators of the shortcomings concerning the organisation of the First and Second Basic Court in Belgrade, which concerns the city's municipalities. Now I'm going to take the opportunity to inform the public that what's going on with this bill, and it's about judicial and prosecutorial organisations, is totally unconstitutional. That's where I'm going to use Article 190's clause. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes, is the 5th position, the jurisdiction of the municipality. Now I would ask you to pay attention to what the Constitution says, and later I will convince you why it is necessary to adhere to the Constitution. So, Article 190, the final position, reads - the municipality, in accordance with the law, prescribes violations for violations of municipal regulations. This can only seem to bring you back to Article 2 at first sight. The bill, which provides for the organisation of criminal courts. But you will see that there is a connection. Article 2 The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors prescribes misdemeanor courts, in 45 seats on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If the provision of Article 190, which I just read, is that the municipality prescribes, in accordance with the law, infringements for violations of municipal regulations, then the situation is the following. We can take whatever number you want from Article 2, say, the Vranj Criminal Court. The Vranj criminal court will judge a violation by the regulations it has passed, for example, the Municipality of Trgovište in Vranj, so it turns out. Let me take, perhaps, something even more important. If it is necessary for the criminal court to apply the decree of Vladic's Han, it will be done by the Court of Justice in Vranj. I think this provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the jurisdiction of municipalities, in the part of the regulation of violations, means, among other things, that the authorities in that territory should decide on criminal liability – yes. You didn't take care of that. Why didn't you take care of it? I will now quote some of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These provisions are very precise and very important, among other things, and on the issue of the organisation and arrangement of courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Let's get in line. Article 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you can interpret it and extend it, you can interpret it and the rope, and strictly, however you like, but listen to what it says: "The government is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. The rule of law is achieved through free and direct elections," you recognise, "the constitutional guarantees of human and minority rights, the division of power, independent judicial authority", is an emphasis on "independent", "and obeying the constitution and the law". All branches of government must comply with the Constitution and the law, that means they recognise the power of the Constitution and the law and respect the Constitution and the law. As for Article 4: "The administration of power rests on the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters," so as not to read any further. In the end, what is most important, and this is the first time that political parties, thanks to this constitution, have become a constitutional category, the final position of Article 5 says: "Political parties cannot directly exercise power or subjugate it to themselves". This should include Article 2(2) – no state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens, nor establish power beyond the free will of citizens. I read you these provisions so that you would first of all realize how wrong this is. This operation, called "Zumbul", is based precisely on this -- that a political party wants to have that kind of domination and not to mind the Constitution. You see for yourself, decentralisation falls, and deetatisation, and democratisation, and respect for human rights, everything is subordinated to the interests of one party, which wants to centralise its power, by eventually putting its representatives and members into uniforms of judges, ministers, police officers, but the essence is – one party's policy. That opinion is shared by others. Just to remind you of what is in the provisions of the Constitution prescribed for courts. In Article 142, Article 1 – The judicial authority is unique in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We had the opportunity to read the provisions of the bill in law on the regulation of courts, in the bill of law, where courts are ranked according to the levels of power. At that time, I drew your attention to the fact that all courts are part of a unique judicial authority and that there are no courts of the Republic, the province, the municipal, the county, or any other rank, but you have also inserted it in one way. Just to draw your attention to the establishment, organisation, jurisdiction, regulation and composition of courts being regulated by law, and those who pass laws should present the sovereign will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The sovereign will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is contained in these hundreds of amendments, not in, I think, 16, and perhaps I was wrong, 19 members of the bill. All parties requested that the provisions of this law be changed, all parties requested. There are reasons, and rights acquired and some personal interests related to some environment, but I must say that there are other arguments that do not justify an existing network of courts, which, of course, does not satisfy, above all, interests. To read to you this article, Article 5 of Item 4 – political parties cannot exercise direct authority or subjugate it to themselves. We have a situation where one party has subdued full authority to itself, of course, not directly, but in the very setting of people, members of that party or people close to that party, you can see that new party state. There used to be Tito's letter, so the former Yugoslavia was shaking. A few days ago, we had Boris's, allegedly, letter, and Kristo fell. Kristo's going down. For nothing that Todorovic and Batic were talking about here for months was necessary. It's similar with this bill. If Boris Tadic says -- you know, there's a lot of complaints, people are complaining, let's get it back to work, they'll come back, they'll come back. It all depends on Boris Tadic. Just to remind the MPs, you are expressing the sovereign will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have democratic legitimacy, because you have been chosen to represent citizens, and in this session, in the last month, MPs are quite well representing the interests of citizens. Problem is, the other side can't hear. As you can see, the problem of this law is not a member of points 1, 5, 14 and 23. All points are subject to the same discussion of the principle of nature. Someone put the National Assembly at this speed to block the work of the National Assembly on life issues. Following an emergency procedure, we are dealing with the issue to be applied from January 1st 2010 to avoid talking about Eulex, and you can't even hear what the translation of that abbreviations Eulex means. Whoever supports this, whether with six points, five, 10 or 50, essentially supports Eulex, which is the EU's special mission to strengthen the legality of the work of the independent state of Kosovo's body. That's the prank. We'll talk about the court in Vlasotinc, Surdulica, and we're not allowed to talk about anything that questions the sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country. That's why all the state authorities are so eager to do the job. This discussion cannot be tolerated, so insert that story – Darko Mladic. He won't be able to take it tomorrow, he'll put in another story. Why? By the logic of things, I need MPs, when they hear something, to immediately inform the public of what this government is preparing. I'm reading Article 5(4) again. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "Political parties cannot exercise direct authority or subjugate it to themselves". We're slaves to this concept. This is the new concept of the Neopartian State of the Democratic Party. As you can see, I have a lot of reasons to doubt and I have a lot of rights to ask the president of the National Assembly to multiply that letter, which he received this morning, into 250 copies and to share with the MPs in order to see if there really is a crime in the Civilian Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I'll read Article 3(3) again. The law on the financing of political parties, from the point of view, above all, of the DS: "private sources within the meaning of this law form membership fees, contributions of legal and natural persons, revenues from the promotional activities of the political party, revenues from the property of the political party and legislation." Come on, please, let's review what it's been like to finance DS pre-election activities, because I get the impression that when this issue opens up, similar issues are raised among other political parties and we come to the very heart of the problem – who reproduces crime in the Republic of Serbia and leads to a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Don't run away from these very important questions. These issues concern every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. These are far more important questions than a Bojan Krishte, far more significant than Boris' letter, Broz's letter, remember how it was. Broz's letter was a hickey. One writer started, everyone looked into it and cleaned it all up. Now Tito's letter, titled Broz's limited range letter, has begun, only the airport. Then, comrades, let's face it, we'll cut our salaries in public enterprises. That's not enough. I hope there's time to open up the question of what this schizophrenic monetary policy is for the past eight years. My Popovic, we are now paying the cost of this monetary policy. It's all coming up. What about our exporters? Who did this monetary policy suit? Because of this monetary policy, all citizens who have borrowed credit. But DS won't allow that debate, forbids, threatens, throws out, steals even more. Follow the second RTS program tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9122	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr Dimitrijevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9123	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 3 of the Law on Courts and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, I have submitted an amendment, to delete point 9, and to add new points instead of point 9, which read as "The Municipal Court in Jagodina, the Municipal Court in Rekovec and the Municipal Court in Svilajnc". At the same time, point 17 should be deleted and new points should be added, which read: “The Municipal Court in Negotin, the Municipal Court in Kladovo and the Municipal Court in Majdanpek. ” By listening to all day of debate and the arguments made by the MPs regarding the law, I would not repeat some details, I would refer to a general state that has arisen in this debate on the set of these judicial laws. So, looking at the general, the law is bad. The only right and proper measure is the withdrawal of this law from the procedure. The only right measure is to withdraw this set of laws from the procedure, as it would be for the benefit of Serbian citizens and also for the benefit of people working in the Serbian judiciary. When a law of 19 members is filed on 84 amendments, it is understandable that amendments to change the law are written by MPs of the opposition, not agreeing with certain things, but it is very unusual when amendments are written on these laws and MPs of the ruling coalition. It is even more unusual if one member of the coalition threatens not to vote in favour of the law, as is the Group of Minority MPs. So, the legislator must seriously consider where he was wrong and what his mistake is. What was the legislator doing when proposing this law? A few things are important here. So it talks about the inflow of the case, distance, travel network, close to the borders, near tourist facilities, the size of the court, the number of judges, as well as the increased inflow of the case. None of these parameters can be accepted or respected. So let's see what happens in some municipalities when it comes to moving near borders. Do you, Madam Minister, know where the municipalities of Kladovo and Majdanpek are located? It's at the border towards Romania, near the border. Do you know what a travel network looks like, what a period of autumn and winter in those parts? How do you think these people travel to Negotin, what kind of transportation? What does it mean to remove the general courts in those places? If you abolish their court, the ruling coalition will abolish their home of health tomorrow, and then the high school will be abolished. It's called emptying the territory and it's not good, it's not good for Serbia. That's not a good decision. You're talking about rationalizing costs. I can't believe that story. What will be the travel expenses of these judges who will travel to these places? Who's gonna drive them? Does that mean getting new cars? What will happen to the current maintenance of these buildings? Are those judges going to the bureau? What about their families? These are all arguments that should have been considered when proposing this law. Finally, for two days in the media and in the public of Serbia, one serious thing has been said when the law was proposed – was there a public debate? What does the Society of Judges say about a set of these laws? Why does the Society of Judges ask the President of the Republic not to sign the order of these laws? Is that enough reason for the motion to pull these laws out of the process? I think it is reason enough. Therefore, the set of these laws does not do Serbia any good, and in Serbia it is not good today. Serbia is slowly slipping in the 1990s, among other things, thanks to this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9124	Thank you. Mr. Dusan Maric picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support this amendment for one simple reason, because I believe that all the places that currently have courts should have them in the future. It's about liquids that mean a lot to both these cities and the citizens who live in them, and I really don't think at this point there's any reason to resort to such radical measures as the one proposed by this law, which is the abolition of 104 municipal courts. The abolition of such a significant institution as the court in Svilinc, Kladov, Rekovec, Majdanpek etc. It would contribute to the provincialisation of these places and encourage further population migration towards larger centres. I will use the debate on this issue, as well as the presence of the government's representatives, to draw attention to a problem relating to the status of Serbs expelled from Republika Srpska, which the Croatian judiciary in absentia condemned to years of prison sentences for crimes they did not commit. People are not convicted of committing crimes, but convicted of not returning to Croatia. According to Republika Srpska government data, according to NGOs, more than 200 people are concerned. They, meanwhile, have gained Serbian citizenship and the state of Serbia has a constitutional obligation to fight to protect their rights. For the sake of illustrations, I will give just one example, an example of Željko Knezevic, who is 41 years old, born in Ocustav near Knin, is former worker of the Vajka Factory in Knin, and has been living in the Great Plan for 15 years, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. He is in absentia, by the County Court in Zadar, sentenced to 20 years in prison and is being held after by Interpol's arrest warrant. The County Court's ruling in Zadar said that Zeljko Knezevic, a member of the Serbian military police force Krajina and as a guard in a military prison in Knin, participated in the beating up of Croatian national prisoners, resulting in one of the prisoners dying. The facts are next. There was indeed a military prison in Knin, which provided for the Serbian army of Krajina. The fact is, in that prison, unfortunately, there have been beatings. The fact is that there was an accident where one of the Croatian prisoners, due to the heavy beatings he got, died a little later. However, Zeljko Knezevic has absolutely nothing to do with the case. Zeljko Knezevic was never a member of the Serbian military police force Krajina, Zeljko Knezevic was never a prison guard in Knin, nor a guard of any other prison. Željko Knezevic has never entered a single prison in his life and Željko Knezevic has never in his life hit a single Croatian prisoner or any other nationality. Zeljko Knezevic seeks to bring more than a dozen witnesses, not only Serbs, but also Croats from Knin, their friends, their neighbours, to justice. He spoke to all the institutions of the Croatian state. Their answer is – come to Croatia and prove your innocence. Zeljko Knezevic does not doubt that he would prove it, however, the problem is that practice shows that all those Serbs who go to Croatia, who are subject to judicial sentences in absentia, must spend at least a few months in prison, and there are cases that they have spent six years in prison to prove their innocence. Zeljko Knezevic simply does not have the courage to go to Croatia and spend one day in prison there, let alone a year. I therefore appeal to the Minister of Justice, appeal to the ruling majority, appeal to the Ministry of Justice and all state institutions to deal with this problem. So, all those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have indeed committed crimes and are being prosecuted should be responsible for these crimes, as well as members of other peoples who have committed crimes against the Serbian people. So, justice for all the victims, punishment for all the criminals. However, the state must do everything to protect against the retribution of the Croatian state of its citizens who are convicted or guilty or debtors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9126	Thank you. The word is Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to hear that everyone who went out today and yesterday on the subject of the amendment has spoken about the depravation, or the termination of the work of certain courts, which shows that it is a major reorganisation, or a great road which wants something to change rationally in Serbia, but I am afraid, because of the criminal privatisation that has happened since 2000, so we say, in Serbia, that this set of laws, in fact, does not contribute to the destruction of one, to say, of the intelligence in Serbia. I honestly must tell you, since I've been a businessman for 30 years, there have been three major "princes" in Serbia, right in the time when certain political turmoil took place. It was a major blow to Serbian intelligence. I think this is also a major blow to that very Serbian intelligence. I don't know how you asked the question of rationalization. I don't know what you're actually considering by that rationalization. Or do you think that these cases, or objects, are solved as quickly and as quickly as possible? Did you want to deal with individuals involved in certain criminal activities, mafia activities, or was there a symbiosis between mobs, politicians, lawyers, judiciarys, so you probably don't have any other methods to apply them and then think about it – let's see this method, move or deny the work of certain courts, as the judiciary is related to municipalities where you have the starting point of the number of citizens in these municipalities? That doesn't drink water, probably something else. If it's a financial effect, as you are here, all day long yesterday and today, you heard, that financial effect will not and cannot be. Because if you look at how this financial effect will be reflected in terms of stabilisation and whether certain municipal courts can support themselves, it does not drink, again, water is bound to be from one center. I'll show you, this is where the Vladimirs and Kocelje's courts delivered the material. Over two thousand resolved cases speak of active, and in one case and another, municipal courts, so we believe that this is not a prerequisite for their abolition. What is also very important, we heard here at the pay phone, is that demographic image, or let's say -- that infrastructure. In both cases, in these two municipalities, we can say that their distance is over 30-40 km from the centre we call the Shabac; it is impossible to carry out quality actions in these courts. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this, as I have already said in my presentation, is a major attack on these courts, in fact, against the municipalities themselves. They're thinking about citizens, about the Sabbath. Sabac has gained the status of the city, so now they're afraid if, in fact, this is a way to make the municipalities in Vladimirci, Koceljeva, shut down and become an integral part of the town of Šapca. I believe that what you want to do with this rationalization of the judiciary - improving work, is not possible by methods, or by the measures you want to shut down the courts and create some units, which are actually going to be commanded from a single centre, which is the Municipal Court in Capco. I consider this because of the infrastructure, work and facilities, which, two or three years ago, are arranged and adapted to the quality work of municipal courts both in one and the other municipality, which is one prerequisite that speaks of the quality of the work of these judges. Secondly, if there has to be an abolition, I believe that these two municipal units should merge into one municipal unit, regardless of whether the centre will be in the municipality of Vladimirci or Koceljevi. These are the closest municipalities to each other. I think it would have a greater effect than closing them down. I would use my date for this pay phone to say, as my party colleague Petar Jojic said, something about mineral fertilizer factories. I was talking about how they were closed, but I'd say, mostly, about a factory that was actually kidnapped. Here, there is complete documentation, which I will hand over to the minister of justice, where a statement and criminal charges have been made for the owner of Galeb, the former president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The press has written a lot about it, and here's the official file, where there's also a statement from the people who participated in the kidnapping of this factory. I have to tell you, this only happened in the Wild West, I believe it may be a unique case in the territory of Serbia, in which municipal leadership is involved, under the conductor's stick of Dusan Petrovic. All of this is covered, the whole struggle of Mepritlastics workers, to bring the company back into their custody, to shed light on this criminal crime. All this time, these eight years, there's been no positive resolution. For what? That's why, because of these cases of politicizing the judiciary, as it has been all these eight years. It is, in fact, what you need to stop, politicization in the judiciary, that judges are not elected, or that their reelection is not done according to political resemblance, but according to their expertise, because one judge should stick to the law of "who's drunk" and not like in these cases, where workers prove the abduction of this factory for eight years, but they can't do anything, because behind this whole case stands, probably, someone above, a larger institution, and these are tycoons, criminals, thieves, who have been ruling this Serbia for all these eight years. So imagine yourself deeply and see where, in fact, the path of this judiciary is. He's in your hands, under your jurisdiction, under your control for eight years. (President: Mr. Zivanovic, time. I'm done. That's why I think, like many who have come from their midst to speak for this assembly speaker to remain municipal courts, it's a base that should survive, as well as intelligence in these environments, that this, like all other amendments, will be accepted and that you will withdraw this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9128	On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Mile Ilic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9129	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 3, whose amendment I asked for, refers to the remaining and survival of the basic courts, to be taxed, in Kikinda, Novi Knezevic, Novi Sad, Backo Palanca, Vienna, Vrbas, Temerina, Titell, Subotics, Adi, Bačka Topoli, Kanjizi and Senti, of course, with municipalities that lie in these main courts seats, i.e. their surroundings. I had a chance to be in Novi Knezevic last night, where I received a very interesting memo, a correspondence with the Ministry of Justice, with Mrs Malovic, the Municipal Court in Novi Knezevic. It dates this letter from 14.10.2008, and it is a proposal to amend the draft of this law, the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, where they explain why the status of municipal, i.e. the basic court should be maintained in the municipality of Novi Knezec. The above-mentioned draft law ceases to work at the Municipal Court in Novi Knezevic, and its territory is within the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Kikinda. The College of Judges and Workers of the Municipal Court in Novi Knezevec submits this proposal to amend the draft law and points to relevant facts about the status of the Municipal Court in Novi Princejevac, and throughout history, even today. Among other things, there are very interesting facts here to be presented to the public. It says that for this territory, it is important that the municipal court in Novi Knezevic be in a new network of courts of the Republic of Serbia. This right stems not only from the present time, but also from the demands of the people of Serbia, Hungary and Romania and other members of the national minorities who live here, because the judicial authority in Novi Knezevic had and has a reputation and respect for this region. The courts that were in this place, which were called through history – the royal court, the district court, as well as the municipal court, will today be called the judicial unit. However, it seems a little offensive to the citizens of the New Prince, so at least I was presented yesterday, and it is seen in this memo before. "We believe that the draft law is not sufficiently appreciated by all specificities of the municipalities of Novi Knezevic and Čoka, for which the Municipal Court in Novi Knezevec is responsible, and above all geographical position, distance from Kickinda", which will now, in fact, belong, "the mixed national composition of the population and obligations, according to the statutes of both municipalities, that the procedure is conducted equally in the Serbian and Hungarian languages, traditions and historical facts, that the exercise of the judicial authority is still organized in the 18th century, and institutionally, according to the data provided, already at the end of the 18th century there is a royal court for the then Turkish Kanjiž, or "turk Kanjiž", today Novi Kneževec. The town of Kikinda is located 55 km from Novi Knezevic and from surrounding settlements, such as the Serbian Krstur, Đala, Majdan, Banatsko Arangelovo, etc. and up to 80 kilometers. The Zrenjanin district court, as second-degree, in a number of cases and first-degrees, is 110 km away from Novi Knezevic, and from these settlements up to 130 km away. In such a situation, the rule of justice would not be available to the citizens of these municipalities. ''That's what we, MPs from the DSS, and many MPs, even from the ruling coalition, spoke of that availability of justice. Here's a concrete example, which means 20, and 80, and 110, and 130 km, specifically and very clearly. The state is obliged not only to organise judicial authority and a network of courts, but to allow its efficiency and accessibility to all citizens. Not to read the whole memo, to finally quote: "It is easy to see that the same criteria are not respected in the construction of the network of courts. In Vojvodina, many courts cover a much smaller area and a much smaller number of cases than the Municipality Court in Novi Knezevic, and the nearest court in the larger town is up to 20 km away, such as the cases in Kovavica, Žablja, Temerina, Bačka Petrovac, etc. Therefore, it is not clear what standards the draftr of this law had in mind, but certainly they are not the same to all. In the process itself, no public debate has been conducted," we, the MPs, have repeatedly pointed out, "so that citizens of these municipalities are directly, or through their representatives, as well as the professional public, told about the draft. "It goes on to say who was being communicated with and in what way. What wasn't everything? It wasn't, to call it, a public debate. There was no broad discussion with professional and professional organisations and that they produced fruit, in the sense that they supported this bill. I wonder where this bill came from. They'll only come across your green tasters. A good part of you from the ruling majority, the MPs, in the hall, can say – indeed, there have been a lot of irregularities towards some municipalities. Professional public, local self-government, how many and when consulted, how many of their proposals ended in this bill? I don't feel like this law enjoys anyone's support, but the voting power of God doesn't beg, so be it. We continue to insist that this law be withdrawn from the agenda, and it is not a waste to note, that we who are coming from Vojvodina, that I make a mild digression, who closely followed the whole story of the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina, that three months ago there was a work version that took place in one part of the press, where, among other things, the AP Vojvodina would be determined by judges and prosecutors in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That sounded, indeed, like a real, true violation of the Constitution, understood by the creators of that statute themselves. Of course, we know about those divisions in the DS, and his duchess, and this other one. Suddenly it disappeared without any explanation, without any thought, without any sentence that could comment on it. At that time, I publicly appealed to Boris Tadic, as president of the DS, for him to be president not only of the election campaign, but for it to be throughout the year, to comment on such a proposal that came from the province's leadership, i.e. by the Executive Council, i.e. at the end of the year, and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. Could the AP Vojvodina exercise direct judicial authority? That was the question. However, it was left behind from this proposal of the Statute; in a very interesting, magical way, it was not. There are other unconstitutional norms left, but we'll talk about it when it comes to the agenda next year. I'll remind you of the amendment of our colleague from DS, Milice Radovic. Pull this bill. The judicial public, the prosecutor's public, in general, will be very pleased with the public in Serbia. This is also said by the fact that this is a law that has an incredibly large number of amendments, even by the ruling coalition, that it has not received support in any ordinary TV show, let alone a serious debate on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9130	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Mr. Petar Jojic, about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly the motion of this amendment is right, because, as you know, the citizens to whom these rights apply have the right to have as close as possible, among other things, to the legal institution. In this severe crisis that has affected Serbia, this is making life more difficult for our citizens. This makes it difficult for our citizens to address the court, to exercise their constitutional rights guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this draft law on the abolition of courts, I must note that predicting judicial units and departments is not a constitutional category. Nowhere in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the provisions of Article 142, 143 do not say that there are any judicial units. Nowhere is there a word "will be a department", nor is the legislator, or the Assembly, authorized to now predict some new entities in the judiciary that the Constitution does not know. So neither the judicial units nor the departments are a judicial or constitutional category. The existing organisation of courts is in line with the Constitution, and colleagues have indicated in several amendments that the right of citizens to this is compromised and that they will not be able to achieve them in a timely manner and that the court will be accessible to them, as in some cases a citizen will have to travel 150km to exercise some rights. Take it now, some face from Brodarev, or from Prepolje, will be deprived of liberty and a solution should be made for detention, and detention should be extended and in the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal, as more instance. This one takes the case from the Municipal Court in Prijepolje and comes to Kragujevac and in Kragujevac now needs a competent court of appeals to decide and to return to Prepolje; it crosses 600, 700 km. As a result, many suggest that even these predictive departments will absolutely not bring any effectiveness in the judiciary. Let's keep an existing organisation of justice, at least when it comes to the territorial organisation and the choice of judges. I advocate that the choice of judges be, not re-election, in the way the Constitution predicted. On the other hand, both the first assembly and the composition of the High Council of the judiciary and the Council of State Prosecutors, prosecutors, will pass the procedure passed by other judges, prosecutors and their deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just mentioned what the judicial authority in Pancheva is doing – it does not take certain measures. Here's an example. I'll continue what happens when it comes to the Pancheese Azotara. I repeat for your sake, for the sake of the citizens and for those martyrs, workers who don't receive salaries for months, who had a strike yesterday and demand the achievement of their rights, because it's 1200, 1300 workers who have nothing to feed their families on. According to statistics, it is about 5,000 people, i.e. workers and their family members. The privatisation agency, in 2006, sold "Azotar" for 13m euros. It is bound by a contract to invest in production, bound by a contract that in five years it will not alienate anything concerning the real estate and value of the capital purchased. They bought "Azotara" for 13 million, so this year, in June, they would steal a new factory of "Azotara", a factory of "Carbamid", which was worth 32 million and sold, decommissioned, loaded into trains and sent abroad to Ukraine or Lithuania, and it was sold there for 32 million. People, those PR thieves you have to arrest, they robbed the state, along with the other accomplices. What happens next? The privatisation agency calls on owners in the privatisation process and changes the contract, rather than obliging customers to invest 32m euros in the account of the company that was purchased. What did they do now? The Privatisation Agency makes its decision, 14.05.2008, which requires the customer, i.e. He's delaying dues, and he's paying half, not 100% of the value of the capital when they stole the factory. It says – given that these entities did not comply with the contract, we decide, firstly, that from their own funds, they pay an amount of 833,413,106 dinars at the expense of the privatisation entity, whose amount is the difference between 10.88% and 10.5.2008, representing 10.088,000 dinars, i.e. the euro, according to the official and middle rates of the National Bank, for the purchase of fixed assets which will be recorded as basic assets owned by the Republic, i.e. the privatisation entity. This payment will be recorded in the business books of the privatisation entity as an extraordinary income without creating an obligation, i.e. without paying the capital of the privatisation entity. Now we come up for the most interesting detail. First, to enter the underlying assets in equivalent to 833,413,000 dinars. Now it determines a new payment method. The payment of money, i.e. the introduction of basic funds, should be made according to the following dynamics. The first part, worth 3.36.2.280 euros, in dinar equivalent to the official course of the National Bank on the day of payment, but beware of what is interesting, not to pay immediately, but to postpone the deadline, to pay only 31.12.2008 in the first war. A second war, worth 3,362.280 euros to pay, but when? This Privatisation Agency thief again. They're thieves. When they have a hard worker like this, they're thieves. It says – it will pay 3,362,000 euros in 30.08.2009. They've been putting him off for another year, and they're putting him off the hook. The third war, again from 3.5m euros, will be paid by 31.12.2009. What about the workers? Why aren't the workers receiving salaries? Why doesn't the factory produce fertilizer, which allowed the thief to steal the factory, to disarm it and sell it to trains in Lithuania? Who are these people? Where's the state? Where's the D.A.? The country has to intervene. Five thousand souls are left without bread, without pay. This isn't a small thing, this is a serious thing. The state has to intervene here. The DA has to intervene. A harmful contract has been concluded, at the expense of the state and the workers. Whoever concluded such a bad deal and made a bad decision must be arrested. The public prosecutor must listen to this now and only if the voice to him is that a criminal offence has been committed on official duty is required to take appropriate measures and to decide to initiate the investigation and resolve the issue. For the last two years, about 12,000 jobless workers have been left in Panchev, thanks to such privatisation, to those thieves from the Privatisation Agency. The biggest thieves in the country are the ones from the Privatisation Agency. Gentlemen Democrats, conduct an analysis. Do you see how much they've sold to factories and businesses and at what cost? It's nothing. You can't get to them. They're closed. No one has access there anymore. This is where the state has to act. The rights of citizens must be protected. They sold Panchev's trademark, i.e. The Pancheva brewery, which was founded in 1722, as the oldest factory in the Balkans. A profiteer came in and bought a brewery, disarmed it, closed the circle and the factory, took it in an unknown direction, and didn't know what was wrong with it. There are over 300 workers left without a job. The glass factory in Panchev, 1000 workers lost their jobs, the "Nikola Tesla" light bulb factory, which produced the best light bulbs in the Balkans, lost their jobs. Two shoe factories where workers lost their jobs, a catering company called "Freedom", where workers lost their jobs, a agricultural combination that was second in Serbia on the surface, PIC "Tamis" Panchevo, which had thousands and thousands of hectares of agricultural land, with its facilities, plants and properties, all destroyed and sold out to thieves, robbers and profits. As long as I ask, gentlemen, who are you in power? You have to deal with these thieves and criminals. The SRS is asking for urgent measures at the Privatisation Agency to be taken and to see what these people are doing there. They have to be in front of justice. They must be brought in. Some have to be arrested. The one that made this decision and amended the existing basic contract must be arrested and an investigation must be carried out. If the police and the prosecution don't do it, it means we're legalizing thieving and crime and the workers stay on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9132	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9133	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you have the opportunity to hear, while Serbia is being harassed, burned and burned by criminals of all feals and colors, while The Hague tribunal releases on the loose the convicted criminals, who have committed crimes themselves, such as Ramush Haradinaj and Naser Oric, so far Serbia has been persecuting its most honorable and brave people, who have risen from the first moment in defense of the Serb people, in all areas where the Serb animal was threatened. Today, I attended the saddest and most embarrassing act, when police broke into Ratko Mladic's house, according to the district court, investigative judge Milan Dirparic, allegedly, to investigate whether Ratko Mladic was in the house, to eventually find any evidence to help with the arrest of Ratko Mladic and to find evidence of whether members of the Ratko Mladic family were helping Ratko Mladic in hiding. That's the scariest thing I've ever seen. I don't know if you've had the chance, I wouldn't want anyone to be able to get into his house with the police, where his grandmother, his grandson of two and a half years old and his son Darko, and search every single thing, literally, every item, every piece of paper, to find evidence for a man no one's seen since 2005. From Hamurabi, there's a law in which relatives, complacents don't answer for anyone else's guilt, but you step on it all. For the sake of the UN tribunal's order, you are putting pressure on this family, so that, with the help of that pressure, you will eventually be able to find yourself, or that, God forbid, Ratko Mladic will give himself up for it. The same thing was done with the family of Radovan Karadzic. The same thing was done by the American occupation forces in Iraq, with them going on. They kidnapped members of the families of the people they were looking for, so, under the threat of execution of a death sentence, they forced them to surrender. Do you know what they found? Warko Mladic's trophy weapon, which he won as the best officer, the 29th-class infantry captain, the best in his class. The weapons he received on a gift for heroic acts both in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, and you are sending police to collect all of this and to take to the UN tribunal investigators, to take everything they found to UN investigators. What kind of country are we? What kind of people are you when you let that happen? Is there a line you won't cross when it comes to orders coming from Americans and the European Union? This is such a shame that generations in Serbia will remember, and you will be on the most embarrassing pages of our history that you have written for eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9134	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9135	Our people say, "Each one who is not afraid of God is poor, and the people are not ashamed." Unfortunately, these today rule Serbia. What you just heard from Mr. Todorovic and what was followed by the laughter of some MPs of the ruling coalition is indeed more than a shame. You can fulfill all the orders you got, actually, for which you got the money. Not you, you don't know who got the money and how much money he got, but one day it'll all come out. Dear colleagues, you have no right, you of the ruling majority, to humiliate the Serbian people. You're doing it. Today you've shown the way you're courting Serge Brammertz, earlier Carly del Ponte. Every time Brammertz comes to Serbia, Serbia needs to be traumatised, I mean most Serbian citizens who have dignity, pride and who appreciate their heroes and their heroes, such as General Mladic. We didn't get an answer and now I repeat, Madam Minister, to you direct question – who is it that ordered the termination of the domestic series "My Cousin from the Village", because the media announced that Brammertz ordered it, and this morning Olga Kavran, also in those media, denied it and said it had nothing to do with The Hague tribunal, but with someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Next question for you, Madam Minister. Today you were at the government's session, and we were also able to read in the media that the UN tribunal's employee union is asking the government of the Republic of Serbia to support their request to get another five million dollars from the United Nations to continue the work of The Hague tribunal. Please tell us, you can do this right now, did you maybe discuss and decide today at the government? Here, Mrs. Kolundjia argues that there was no government, and I refer the question to you, Madam Minister, since Hope Kolundji is not yet a member of the government, as far as we know. But that is why we call on all citizens of Serbia, all those who follow the work of this Parliament, to the real truth about The Hague tribunal, the real truth about Serbs in these last country wars to hear and learn from our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, to monitor the delayed transfer of his trial, every night of 10 hours, and to make it clear to them, and most of all... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... what kind of treasonous power we have in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9136	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9137	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 101, 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure and I ask that in the day of the vote, we declare that the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta hurt the Rules of Procedure, because in the most harsh way, she insulted those who enforce the laws of this state, the competent institutions that are in charge of implementing this law. I must remind myself that everything that the institutions are doing is in accordance with domestic laws and that, among other things, this obligation is not signed by this government, that in 1995 it was signed by a completely different government, but that the state is obliged to implement international obligations and that no one can dispute the right of the state institutions to do so in a way that is fully in accordance with the law. As anyone experiences individuals, as anyone experiences what happened in the 1990s, it is his personal right, and we don't want to sex with anyone about it, but the fact is that some, in our Serbian name, have committed crimes, too, to some children, to some women and some mothers. It is true that it is Serbia's obligation to examine and participate in determining the full truth about it, without accusing anyone in advance and without defending anyone in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9138	First, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9139	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, in the same way as the previous speaker, I refer to the same members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that in the day of voting, the National Assembly declare that Mrs. Hope Kolundji has hurt her dignity and all the norms of decent conduct in the National Assembly. I hope, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, that you will not be offended if I explain with a few words what it meant that Mrs. Nada Kolundžija announced from this address. It was a clear message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that those who believe to be the government in the Republic of Serbia can oppose the SRS, that is their right, but have made it clear in this opposition to the SRS's views that they can freely go to treason. Next, we are victims of DS authorities that are obstructing life in the Republic of Serbia, because DS does not listen to the chief ideologist, Mr Srdjan Milivojevic, and does not potentiate life issues for citizens of the Republic of Serbia at National Assembly meetings, but is using these media pranks to disabling the National Assembly to destroy normal life in the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, a reflection of this kind of primitiveism, prosacuracy and non-civilisation behavior is something that is already known - the vote from Bodrum, the vote from Thessaloniki, the arrest, in a few days, several tens of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the sale of the property of the Republic of Serbia; remember only the 'Sartid' for which it is sold. I would draw attention to you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that, when you see arranged, dressed, with 1,000-euro coats, with 500-euro shoes, smell, three times a day shower, hold, nice, handles, prepare a new scam, after any such fraud, Serbia narrows, smaller and more difficult to live in Serbia. I would draw attention to the fact that the word "democracy" has become corny, due to excessive use, the word "crime" has also become a corny word, because it is overused in a jargon in the National Assembly, and the effects of what is expected of the state and the government are lagging behind. I'm asking you to keep this in mind, and this is what I'm saying at the request of a large number of citizens who are constantly following the second channel of RTS. Follow channel two of RTS. In the voting day, please make your statement on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9140	The Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth, and Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9141	Of course, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Kolundjia has injured members 101, 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but I, unlike my esteemed colleague Krasic, ask that in the Parliament's voting day, you are declared to have, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, injured Article 106. The Rules of Procedure, because you didn't give Mrs. Nadia Kolundji a warning because of everything she said from this place. Mrs. Nado Kolundzija, you and your party thinkers can think of whatever you want about the Serbian people, and about the struggle of the Serbian people for freedom, and about the Battle of Krajisnik, and about Ratko Mladic, and about Radovan Karadzic, that's your right, but what you just said here, at best, if you could ever say, it could be at some closed party meeting of yours. You just insulted the people of Serbia, Mrs. Kolundjia. You can't, because you have something you call an idea, that you do it; that you represent is neither ideas nor ideology. You are the government, you should take care of the citizens of Serbia. Your ministers are fighting and arguing today who will get what dollar more in the budget for their own expenses, and who cares about the ruling coalition for Serbian citizens? Who cares about this people? You are distracting the citizens of Serbia to separate them from those daily problems, from the economic crisis, from the social misery, from all the forms of humiliation they are subject to because of your poor authority, all these last eight years of DOS, in any form. You draw attention and please someone there, Serge Brammertz. You have found this Milan Dilparic, who, in Serbia, catches people who are witnesses of the defence in the Vojislav Seselj case, makes them testify, sends some unknown people. They tell me, before, Minister Jocic, and now Minister Dacic, that police are not doing it, that there are some police in Serbia, and you have allowed it, which works exclusively for The Hague tribunal, which is not in the police ministry's jurisdiction. Really, I don't know whose jurisdiction he might be in... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... except under the direct authority of Boris Tadic or Miki Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9142	Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Kolundzija, not only do you demean such statements by the entire patriotic Serb people, but you allow those who persecute the famous Serbian general and who have imprisoned Serb patriots, as well as our President Vojislav Seselj, to rob Serbia. Pavle Kavran, a native brother of Olga Kavran from The Hague, co-owner of the company, or Citadel, who received 50m euros in fees for the strategic contract that the state of Serbia made with the Fiat in the strategic partnership process with the flag. Wasn't your glorific contract in the campaign, or a memorandum, that the state made one of the most favourable arrangements in the automotive industry, by handing over the flag to zero dinars, with a deadline still in the mist, because the contract was made by Olge Kavran's native brother from The Hague tribunal and received 50m euros in fees, he and his associates, to invest 700m euros in return, and to get 300m euros free of charge. How? Through the infrastructure, this highway that works on Kragujevac-Batočina-Lapovo, through everything that is local, liberating, municipal and other taxes, through the destruction of the line of production so far of Zastava cars, which have gone into old iron. A section of the spare parts of these other flag products has been created for the next seven years, how much do you think more Zastava vehicles will roll on the road, and during that time those who persecute Serbian heroes, through cooperation with you, will not only raid the houses of innocent and innocent people, the closest relatives of General Mladic, but also rob the state. How long do you think you're humiliating us and thinking this people are crazy? Your demagogy, your robbery, which is so sophisticated, so, well, you didn't think it would come out, so some journalists are coming up and coming up with this data that the state has given someone, as Mr. Skrbic said, for the time being, it's worth about 980,000 euros, and the rest, in the coming period, as the state has had to invest 300 million for the uncertain future in the process of global recession and car production and inability to, above all, produce 300,000 units in the flag. Which market to place on, when markets are threatened in those post-socialist countries, where new models are produced, as is the case in Romania, because of the fact that we are in this situation. (President: Time. Mrs. Nada Kolundzija and all of you sitting here defending this shameful attitude of hers must know that what they say and applaud at the Serbian Radicals Hall is not just our opinion. It was enough that yesterday, after we broke up work and went and watched the "Partizana" basketball game and "Efes Pilsen", you could see that the entire Hal "Pionir", 7,000 people, are running: "We will defend the General from The Hague tribunal, lived by Ratko Mladic".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9144	Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it should really, in peace, have Hope Kolundji read what she said, take a stenogram and read what she said. Even if she had referred these words to anyone in the former Yugoslavia, it wouldn't have been correct, because we didn't have a single case, or I don't know it, if anyone in these areas had ordered women, children and old people to be killed, and especially not on the Serbian side. There were individuals who committed crimes, but all these sights were individual and anyone who committed a crime should be responsible for the crime. What's the problem here? The problem is that these words spoken by Hope Kolundji speak in the same way both Croatians, Muslims, and Shipari, when it comes to Serbs and some from Serbia, many years ago. I call on Mrs. Kolundji, yesterday the SRS delegation visited the Association because they had to form the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed in Kosovo and Metohija. So far, they have collected 2,500 images of people who have disappeared and have been killed. They've got about 300 more. Is that a crime? Is it a crime to kill a Serb, or was it completely free, willingly, as anyone could and at what point would do it? Is it a crime to kill 3,600 Serbs in the vicinity of Srebrenica, Kravica, etc? Is it a crime to let a criminal go? Yes, it is. You've released 1,300 convicted terrorists, Mazrek brothers, who are publicly in the trial, and there are videos, have confirmed that they've killed axes, not to mention all the shit and the way they've committed all these crimes, and they've been released. Look what's going on in The Hague. Where you, Mrs. Kolundjia, have so far heard that one time, even that Hague tribunal, had any order that was nowhere near what you said about this pay phone. That's what you'd... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You have to take care of yourself, especially you would have to take care of one fact that I said, I apologize, I end up, on the first date – even if someone committed a crime, it's not his family's fault, it's not his fault, Mrs. Kolundjia, his family. Do you think that after six years of Ratko Mladic's absence in public, he will find himself in his house or find something else? What does Darko Mladic have to do with business... (President: Will you finish, please. I'm finishing up, but just explain to me, what does that matter? He's got two kids, he needs to support them. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9146	Mrs. Kolundjia, so do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9147	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is more because of the citizens of Serbia who were now listening to me say something I never said or thought of. So what I just said is that it is unacceptable for traitors to be called those who are representatives of the official institutions of the state and who work under the laws of this country. That's all I said. At no time have I justified any crime, no criminal, nor have I disqualified in any way, unlike you, any victim.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9148	MP Srdjan Milivojevic. You know what, if you're going to continue with the replicas or the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, otherwise, we have a deal to do by 7:30, so you know I'm going to interrupt the session. Please bring to an end the dialogues that exist. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9149	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. We here seem to be attending the pirate dinner of the SRS, or what's left of the SRS and the patriotic contest. I'm not here to compete with you in patriotism, but I'm not even here to take it if someone who sat in the government in 1999 who gave Kosovo a NATO pact is calling me a traitor. Shame on you. I'm not a traitor. Those who sat in government in 1999, when millions of kilometers...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-04-0.u9150	Please, MP, adjust your tone and content to the level of function of Parliament. Please. We're done working for today. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00.
