ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27 and 98. I don't think God knows what's changed since yesterday when it comes to how you handle this session. Yesterday we talked about it for almost two hours, assuring the chairman that he violated the Rules of Procedure and that what he violated must be corrected. What was wrong yesterday wasn't fixed until today. The way the session was scheduled to continue yesterday in front of all of us here is also not regulated, because something that wasn't regular at first couldn't be fixed that way. I think the chairman had to make a written call to the MPs and schedule a session within a reasonable time frame. He had to do it for example for tomorrow, if he did it for tomorrow, that would be regular. However, given some unspeakable need already formed by the ruling majority that this job ends at a galloping pace, to respect some deadline, which is only clear to them, because no deadline under the law and the Constitution stands out for the performance of this action, for the constitution of parliament, given that this will likely create additional tensions, for which we as a parliamentary group of DSS-NS do not want to be additionally responsible, we will approach the debate at this point, regardless of all the shortcomings that this session has begun, especially given the circumstances which are proposed for the president of the Assembly and how and about something we do not know, so we will look for clarifications, formed the so-called ruling coalition in Serbia. And then through the debate, we'll try to figure it out. Let's see what brings together incompatible, which is why Serbian citizens do not participate in the election of the National Assembly president indirectly, as the law and the Constitution provide, which is why it violates the electoral will of those who voted for our political parties and our lists in the elections, which is why we have on my left what Sandra Jankovic rightly called a scoreboard of at least three colors yesterday. The only thing we know is that the lights at the traffic lights are doing every single one, never all together, if they're doing everything together, usually the traffic lights are broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u61	We're continuing our work. We continue the work of the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the electronic voting system has not yet been operational, given that a number of MPs have not received permanent identification cards, so this job will have to be completed manually. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u62	Mr. Chairman, please do not spoil the sessions of the National Assembly, to guide them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so that you do not try to deceive us, there are too many of us who do not want to, and there are not enough of you who would like to be deceived today. Why isn't the electronic system operational? The explanation you gave is not true. We all have cards. So, here's my card, I don't have a permanent one, and with this card you started the session, it's valid now. I can identify myself whenever you want. So you're telling the truth that it doesn't work electronically. The lie and the lie depend only on the one who utters that word. I'm saying you told a lie. The electronic system is operational, you have a quorum problem. Don't make us, and we can do that, it just looks like a time when the government wasn't democratic, to get out of the O.R. whenever you determine the quorum and come back when you have a quorum. So we don't want to provide you with a quorum and that's perfectly normal. Whoever wants to elect the president of the assembly today must have 126 MPs, not in the O.R., but for. If you don't have 126 MPs identified on the screen, how do you start this session? So don't convince me, you won't be able to convince me, and you can experience yesterday, if that suits you. We would like the session to continue, we would like to conclude the constitution of the Assembly, although it is already established under the Constitution. We'd like you to form that government as soon as possible, but make everything legitimate and legal. Mr. Chairman, when you determine on the monitors that there are 126 MPs in the O.R., feel free to open the session. Until then, don't count us, we don't participate in the quorum. Don't count us because it'll look like the time that's left behind, and it's really not hard for us to get out of the O.R., so I'm asking the MPs of the SRS, if the chairman insists on counting, to leave the O.R. while the count goes on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u63	Here you go. You'll all get your word. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u64	Mr. Chairman, I don't know what you just talked to Mr. Dulic. He approached the speaker, you were able to warn him, you didn't do it, you talked to him, and that's your right. But during that time, you did not see other MPs reporting to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I advertise an infringement of Article 100, which in its first position says to the next - national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the floor immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. I ask you to give, according to the order the MPs applied for, a word by the Rules of Procedure, and as far as I have seen it done by Mr Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u65	National MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u66	Mr. Chairman, please do not apply the methods applied by the Democratic Party in the Assembly at the time, but yesterday mentioned, Bora Novakovica, Nede Arnerić, etc. Don't let them talk you into it. I appeal to you, with good will ours again, this session has been completely misstarted. Here, I have a slightly different card from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and I'm also given a temporary, working, working, electronic system. Please send the officers you've already introduced out, they don't have the right to count us because we're not going to give the quorum. You are required to provide 126 MPs. There's no problem. Let's get it on nicely. Let's figure it out. Here, let the electronic system show it, not that someone's counting us or at least let it be a roll call. There's also this possibility in the Rules of Procedure. Don't let them manipulate you, you're so old, you're the oldest among us, don't let some young people manipulate you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u67	No one's answering their words anymore, let's move on. First of all, the service officially informed me that not everyone had received identification cards and that the system couldn't work because of that. I've been informed by the professional service. Let's move on. I don't remember names or last names or yours or theirs. Since you claim he can, we're going to apply the electronic system. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, Article 15. Rules of Procedure. I find that there are 126 MPs in the O.R. and that the Assembly can make an important decision. You shouldn't have told me this. I'm not threatening you, but you threatened me yesterday, and now I'm telling you, you shouldn't have told me this. National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what you're trying to do at the beginning of this assembly is make it a circus, it's an honor to you. Serbian citizens are watching all this. I would ask you, Mr. Krkobic, to take care and respect the Rules of Procedure. You've violated Article 104, and you insult the MPs. Just because you're sitting in that place, you don't and you don't get the right to work. In the worst possible way, you agreed to be a puppet in the hands of a yellow company. Yesterday you caused a scandal and huge material costs because you scheduled a session. I'd ask some tailors not to earn, they'd better do their job. You have made it impossible for MPs in the Council of Europe to protect the interests of Serbian citizens. The President of the Republic was scheduled to address the Assembly of the Council of Europe yesterday and he postponed it, and all of it for this farce that you are doing here today. It's simple for a man to wonder when you're going to stop making fun of Serbian citizens and Serbian MPs in this way, to really go seriously and honestly once to work. Yesterday, and today, you tried to deceive Serbian citizens and MPs in the most difficult way possible. You claimed that the electronic system was not working, and for a few minutes, the electronic system was working because you saw a 127 number on the screen, meaning that some MPs who form the new majority arrived, and that's when your electronic system came into effect. I'm really trying to let you know that not only is it not correct, it's unfair, but it crosses the basic limits of normal behavior in everyday life, not in the Serbian Parliament. How can you expect citizens or ask citizens to behave in a different way when you are obviously trying to cheat on the Serbian Parliament, representatives of Serbian citizens, and that all Serbian citizens are watching. What do you expect from these citizens now or what you expect from us? And you're angry that we're trying to prevent that obvious fraud. It really doesn't make sense. How long do you think you're acting like this? This goes beyond the borders, I've been in parliament for 16 years, never in this way has anyone tried to cheat on MPs and cheat on the Parliament. In the end, you, Mr. Krkobabi, will be angry because in the most obvious way it has been shown that you have tried to deceive the MPs of the Assembly. Can you explain to us how the electronic system worked? Explain that yesterday, at the beginning of the work of the Serbian Parliament, you also failed to determine the quorum and you went over it lightly? There are some rules, this Rules of Procedure is the rule by which you must work. I understand that you don't know him and you don't need to know him well, but those who sit next to you must know it well and draw attention to you. Because all this is going, as our people would say, on your part. No one will say it's the service, but they will say it is Mr. Jovan Krkobic. I am sure, Mr. Krkobic, that you were present and probably chaired many congregations, not the Serbian Parliament, but some other organizations, and certainly not at the time, regardless of what was a single-party system, that this was the way the fraud was done. I would ask you to protect the dignity of the Serbian Parliament as you sit there in the future, by protecting both your dignity and possibly getting the opportunity to finish this job correctly, which is to elect the President of the Assembly and to fully establish the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u69	I thank Ambassador Todorovic. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet, then Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, all of you, and all of Serbia's citizens know that SRS MPs always take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and that we will always intervene, if anyone who holds the presidency of parliament violates the Rules of Procedure. We also know what the majority of the 126 MPs mean. If I were to suggest that in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I know that you would vote that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We are, however, the people's representatives, and we, above all, must, for the sake of the public, because of the citizens who sent us to this Parliament, explain some things and draw attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is clear, of course, that we have nothing against the fact that you have a congregation majority of 126 MPs, that you will establish a Parliament, choose a government. All this is necessary for Serbia and Serbia must have a constitutional parliament and a elected government. Of course, when that's on the agenda, we'll talk about it. Unfortunately, here's the second day and we still haven't reached the session and the agenda. The Mr. Chairman was warned yesterday that he did not react under Article 100 paragraph 3 when he was under obligation, and today, and always, whoever is chairing the parliament, is obliged to, after any intervention by the MP on the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, that the explanation of the objection of the MP. So you, Mr. Chairman, have not responded in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and are not responding properly and when necessary. But, therefore, contrary to the provisions of Rule 96 of this Rules of Procedure, you communicate with the MPs of the place where you sit. You can't do that and you're not in charge of the service, obviously, you're being instructed. They should take care of it, too. I understand that you are only two days, or today the third day in that place, and you probably didn't even get to meet the Rules of Procedure, but believe me, when we intervene, it's not a whim and then it's not an obstruction, it's really a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, article 96 says, "The President of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly." What does that mean in your case? Did you want to replicate Mr Tomislav Nikolic? You could have sat down where you are, one of your younger colleagues, that colleague said the word has Dr. Jovan Krkobibic, a replica on the violation of Mr. Tomislav Nikolic's Rules of Procedure, so go out nice and say here, threaten this place with Tomislav Nikolic, tell Tomislav Nikolic that he was not allowed to go out for a pay phone and say something he said, which, of course, nobody should tell any MP. But if you wanted to, it wouldn't be any problem if you answered your word and said so from this place. Believe me, all our objections are well-intentioned and for your own sake, and also because of the fact that we do not want this parliament to become a joke. Many years have passed since we have been in parliamentary democracy, let us respect and listen sometimes to those who truly know it and who, believe me, are extremely well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u71	I thank Mrs. Radetti. I'm asking Mr. Shormaz's MP to take his word for it. He's giving up. National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u72	Dear People's MPs, dear Doctor Krkobiæ, I would ask you to address with respect in the future while you are at the seat of the National Assembly, to respectfully address all MPs. I'm sitting somewhere in the back row, and this finger of yours is a threat I've experienced as a personal threat. I think my entire line has seen it as one threat. It's just that when you're sitting there giving signals or signs like that, we don't know who that applies to. So I'm asking you to come out here in the future and tell us everything you want, not that we're anxious and that we think about who's being threatened. Second, I'm going to ask you one more thing. I am a member of the Permanent Delegation of the Council of Europe. That, here, for a year and you can check that Donka Banovic, a MP from the Democratic Party of Serbia, has never been absent. So, I attended all the sessions and all the committee sessions. Today, on the way to the Assembly, in the car, I heard on the radio that one of our stations, which we call modernly "Serb Si-en-en", and I argue that there is currently no member of the Council of Europe from the Serbian delegation, or there is none of us. Please explain it to the citizens right now, to come out here nice and to explain - why the members of the Serbian delegation are not in the Council of Europe? The Committee for Human Rights and Legal Affairs is held today at 14pm. The session was absolutely necessary for members of the Serbian delegation to attend, because it decides who will be the rapporteur of the topic that is very important for Serbia, which is to investigate what happened to the missing Serbs during NATO bombing and whether it was really trafficking in human organs. Thanks to the fact that you've scheduled this session to come back and haven't explained to us why it was so urgent, none of our members are present today with this committee. So, first of all, there is a danger of putting this on the agenda of the Council of Europe, namely that the Council of Europe does not enter that matter at all, without saying that it is a shame that none of us are there today. Personally, I don't want to be held accountable because we're not in the Council of Europe today. We were, of course, uninformed, and via SMS, we found out that we should come here today, so that we could find out that you made this unprincipled "semaphor coalition". Sir, you didn't get the citizens' votes to make a "semaphor coalition" so you could immediately, before the agenda point begins, to all citizens, and to us personally, to explain what principles combine these colours at the traffic lights.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u73	National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u74	Mr Krkobiæ, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not only what counterpart Donka Banovic said, but also some other facts that you will have to give answers to, and the questions that I will give both to you and your new coalition, Mr Krkobiæ, and regarding this extremely important issue that is being raised today, it is yet to be launched to have the character of the resolution, possibly, at a meeting in October at the CoE Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Krkobiæ, when you signed this order for us, which you couldn't, last week, travel there, I don't know if you are, because I believe that Mr. Dulic, while chairing the short time of the National Assembly, certainly had to know what was on the agenda when the Permanent Delegation is going there, were you familiar with this, and this is the text and proposal in English, and this is just a motion for a resolution, which is what needs to be discussed today. Today, at two o'clock in the Parliamentary Assembly of SE, at the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was to be attended by Mr Aligrudic, as the head of the Serbian delegation, as well as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the deputy president of our party, decides on who these people who signed and launched the initiative for, they say, inhumane behaviour and trade of the Serb authorities from Kosovo and Metohija, for the satanization of our people, and are calling for the first point of the reasoning, which today is likely to be done by Mr Konstantin Kosačec, as president of the Russian delegation, because he is the initiator, as well as the entire Russian delegation, to raise the question of how the criminals were being, they say here that the Greek terrorist organisation was referring to 300,000 of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija, as they traded to human organs, as they satanised by the Serbs. Of course, they are calling for the former chief prosecutor's book of the already known Serbs, Carla del Ponte, and say that on the basis of her allegations and her memoirs, they want the representative body, therefore, the CoE Parliamentary Assembly to launch an investigation into the matter. So it's not at all unserious, it's of crucial interest to the state. You want to go to Europe. How will you be in Europe if you do not determine what crimes have been committed against our people? You're not going to push all that under the carpet and say, "It's important to us to negotiate, it's important to us this or that." What do you mean you look into our people's eyes there tomorrow? I need to ask you another question, Mr. Krkobic, you're the chairman of the Assembly. You, by the nature of this temporary function, must know what other authorities in our country are doing. Ask around, and according to the members of Rules of Procedures 225 and 226, I have no one else to ask the question, now to you, so you head it across the street to the building at Andric's wedding, as the president's question - why does Boris Tadic not travel to the SE Parliamentary Assembly tomorrow? I'll give you tomorrow's session agenda later. The arrival has been confirmed, right Mr Aligrudic, Boris Tadic, as president of the Republic of Serbia. It has never happened, ladies and gentlemen, since the establishment of the CoE Parliamentary Assembly, that one statesman, the president of one country, has treated the institution so unseriously as to cancel his arrival, to inform the Serbian mission yesterday when you return us to a special flight to Belgrade. It's not an accident. So, today there are no Serbian representatives on the Committee, we cannot raise the issue of trade between the human organs of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, Boris Tadic is not coming tomorrow and is not addressing the Council of Europe. For what? Did he need to say tomorrow that he has a stable government of "red and yellow" as honey and milk flow in Serbia? Is he perhaps informed of the questions passed on to him by parliamentary groups in the Council of Europe, because he advances to the questions he raises some kind of answer that suits him. I can now conclude with reasonable doubt that all this has been done in order for us Serbs to disavow, so that we cannot, through these institutions, raise issues of vital importance to our country and our people, and above all, the fate of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Then it should serve all of you honor. Answer these same questions and you members of the delegation from this "yellow coalition" DS - why didn't you show up there and why are you no longer interested in mentioning these issues? What did you think, we'd just forget all that and not fight for it? We want for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and for all citizens of Serbia, in line with our capabilities. And believe that they are great, because we Serbian radicals are responsible men, responsible for our people, for our country. Let all Serbia know that Boris Tadic is a disgrace and a disgrace to Serbia, because he cancelled, and tomorrow he does not appear to defend the interests of Serbia and the Serb people in the SE Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u75	Since no one's answered for the hearing... Mr. Shormaz, please, you've given up. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u76	I just gave up because the previous MPs said I didn't want to repeat myself, but now you're continuing the debate, not answering the questions you've been asked. You are obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure, to take and read, to answer the question - what was so important that the back-to-back session was quick to schedule; is it more important for the President of the Assembly to walk the "mia-mia" shoes between these two rows and to come sit here or is it more important that what is happening in the Council of Europe? You haven't heard of this company, some people know. I estimate they're miu-miu, maybe I'm wrong, Lydia will say, but it seems to me I've guessed it. In any case, was it more important or what was happening in the Council of Europe? We ask you not to continue what is happening now, to move to the agenda point, to answer what was so important that our delegation there is not present and is not dealing with very important issues. Why was there such a rush and why couldn't we, say, do it on Friday or Tuesday next week, when it all ended in the Council of Europe? Please answer the question. You can't just get over it. You're the chairman, you're responsible for the session's appointment and you have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u77	I am informing the Assembly that Riza Halimi and Vladan Batic do not attend today's session. (From the O.R.: Donka Banovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. 15 times can't be reported in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u78	Mr. Krkobiæ, I apologize to you, let's say, for asking you to address us with respect, which means that when we ask you a few questions that we want to get answers to, while you are sitting and while you are chairman, you are obliged to give us answers. Secondly, I will ask my colleagues that we also address one another with respect. So now that there's a right and left side, and that's very left, doesn't mean that those two sides should fight. I would also ask my colleague on the left to respectfully address his colleague on the right hand side and even a scoreboard coalition to take care of how he behaves. I will repeat again, if you have not heard what we have said, that we want you to answer us, and also to answer to the citizens of Serbia, why this session is so called for in haste. Why are members of the Serbian delegation not attending very important meetings today at the Council of Europe. I am telling you again, today the media will hit all the bells that MPs are not doing their job properly and how the Assembly chooses a delegation, and then that delegation is not where it should be, when very important issues are being addressed in the Republic of Serbia. So, I think, colleagues, we don't have to continue until we get answers from Mr. Chairman on these issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u79	I thank Mrs. Donkey. Ambassador Zeljko Tomic, please take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u80	Dear Members of the People, Mr. Krkobiæ, you have personally violated at least two provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Position 2: You personally spoke to one of the messengers of the people, and we did not know who, by addressing 'you', you did not persecute the messenger, and it certainly seemed demeaning. I urge you not to do that anymore. Article 100 of Item 3 - The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation. So when the MPs ask a question, they ask the chairman for something, you're obliged to give an explanation, an explanation or an answer. You've been given a few questions, you haven't answered one, and I urge you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u81	I ask MP Zoran Krasic to take the floor, and I thank the fellow who finished the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u82	This way someone tricked Mr. Krkobic into determining the continuation of the constitutional session falls into something he probably must enter into the annals of Serbian parliamentarianism. What happened? It happened that the moment the idea creator of this session realized that 14 MPs were in Strasbourg, that a dozen of them should be in Budva on the official road, that they had obtained conditions to continue through the day the night portion of something that was agreed upon. Of course, it turns out this way for the public that he is neither guilty nor obliged, the current chairman, accepted that he participates in one manipulation, and it is based on the next. I think it would be nice if you took a look at the Rules of Procedure. There is a Article 14 in the Rules of Procedure that says - a MP has been elected to the president of the National Assembly who received most of the votes of the MPs present. The assembly was established by verifying the mandate of more than two-thirds of the MPs. If you take that some of the official duties are absent, that some have not received a text message, not only because of the basement, Bodrum, Thessaloniki and Ravna Gora – G17 Plus is now more of the heritage of Ravna Gora, at least by composition, here is Senić, here is Verko, here is Banana, here is Mićko, and only Ivana Dulic, she will probably be the Chetnik Major of your company, I am sorry, please, just reminding you of what it means – it was theoretically possible for the President of the National Assembly to be elected in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and this way of elections, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, is contrary to Article 104 of Article 1 in which is written - the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all Members of the National Parliaments to be elected by the President or one or one or more of the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. In this planned chaos, and of course behind it are Democrats, because they are known as great lovers of the law, of course, the honorable consul of Nicaragua taught them, he used to be in short pants and on the naked island, so he knows how it goes. People know how immunity is taken overnight, etc., everything to end overnight, to elect the president of the National Assembly, to promote a new system of values. Three days were shaking, the fourth day it fell into oblivion. But as you can see, this thing called a cell phone worked, so a record number of MPs gathered because they must have known it was some kind of DS prank. What's this about? People, if you want to go to Europe, you have to make the quorum first, you know, the quorum first is made, and we're very late in Europe because of the quorum. The quorum has to be the entire session of the National Assembly. You must fight for European values, to bleed for European values, to convince us. What's this? Someone who pretends to be president of the Republic, announces him there as a guest, and he runs back. Now he's running away from Europe. Something strange happened in this country. A few days ago, he's moving that wolf and he says, "They're being threatened by The Hague." Who's threatening him now. He's now being threatened by The Hague. All disrupted value system. What's going on? Are these June heat? What's the matter? As you can see, Mr. Krkobic, what the MPs of this side here are complaining to you and asking for some explanation, not from you, because you are not the president, we will not enter those details, but preserve the spirit of parliamentaryism. Do not be idolized in preserving the spirit of parliamentaryism by acting President of the Republic. That was a terrible thing to get into this building while that lady was on duty. Make sure you bring the spirit to optimism, talk to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, make arrangements, take this Rules of Procedure, see what is in that Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Constitution, apply it, and there will be no problems. But when night arrangements are carried out by day, then it turns out that the snow is not because it's not his time but to see the tracks.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u83	I thank Mr. Krasic. I am informing the Assembly of the constitution of the parliamentary groups. Before we move on to the second item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that they are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Article 23. Rules of Procedure, set up by the following parliamentary groups: 1. A parliamentary group of minorities, educated by MPs from the election list of the Hungarian coalition -- Istvan Pastor, the Bosniak List for European Serbia -- Dr Sulejman Ugljanin and the Coalition of Albanians of the Presevo Valley. The president of the parliamentary group is Parliament MP Balint Pastor and his deputy MP, Bajram Omeragic. 2. The SRS parliamentary group, whose chairman is MP Tomislav Nikolic, and his deputy MP, Dragan Todorovic. 3. The DSS-NS parliamentary group, Vojislav Kostunica, whose chairman is Milos Aligrudic, and his deputy MP, Miroslav Markicevic. 4. The MP group of the SPS-PUPS-JS Coalition, whose chairman is MP Ivica Dacic, and his deputy MP, Momo Colakovic. 5. The LDP parliamentary group, whose chairman is MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and his deputy MP, Nenad Milic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – THE CHOICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA Who appeared? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really time for the chairman to answer our questions, and that's why I answered. Mr. Shormaz asked to answer our question and asked the chairman to answer the questions. We don't understand anything. I ask questions - why has our parliamentary delegation been returned, were very important jobs for our country there, on which basis, who brought them back and what is it about? The president of the Republic of Boris Tadic is canceling. What's he canceling for? On whose orders? When a decision is made on Kosovo, something always fails. When there was a big rally in Belgrade around Kosovo, it was suddenly a visit to Romania. We ask once again for the President's answers - which is why our MPs have been returned from the Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u85	I thank the People's MP. I'd like to inform you that in accordance with Article 10. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... I apologize, MP Dragan Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u86	Mr Krkobic, since you have already informed the Assembly that parliamentary clubs have been formed, I call on Article 219, it is the 15th section that speaks of the relationship between the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court. Mr. Krkobic, you should know that there are MPs in this assembly who, among other things, are the presidents of the municipalities. We know it's the manner of the yellow company, but that yellow fever seems to have spread to some others, and that question here would have to be put seriously on the agenda. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is perfectly clear, Article 102, paragraph 3 says the MP cannot be an MP in the AP assembly, nor a official in the authorities of the executive and judiciary, nor can he perform other functions, tasks and duties that the law found to be a conflict of interest. This is as clear as day. I really can't understand those who are yellow from hitting the chest, running into Europe, fighting for European values, and at every step of the way, they trample it. I cannot explain to myself or others how it is possible for you to advocate the elemental values that involve a certain degree of democracy, when even the Constitution forbids it. You're breaking the Constitution and you're going over it like it's the most common thing that's happened. Mr. Krkobic, I think that you should ask this question here in the Serbian Parliament, to see if it is possible, and I am sure that, among the MPs of the DS and of the MPs of some other parties, who have particularly advocated when it comes to the late mayor of Belgrade Nenad Bogdanovic, who also wanted to retain the office of mayor and MPs, when that question was asked, that they too are now coming out here, I will not call them, but to see whether their position on this issue has changed in the meantime. Let's see what you stand for. Is there only one thing that comes first to you, it's your interest, what's useful to you. It's a thing that can't be legalized in any way. People who are presidents of the municipalities, and at the same time MPs, break the Constitution. Every vote and choice on any basis in which they participate is illegal. Let that question be answered first, to move on. How do you think any decision by the Serbian Parliament to vote on by people who violate the Constitution can be legal and legitimate. There are a lot of DS lawyers here, I'm sure they might find a simple answer that will help resolve this issue and make it clear to you Serbian citizens whether you want to violate the Constitution or not. What's so important that you just want to do your job anyway? I am particularly interested in those who are in the meantime, not a year since the previous elections, who have asked the same question. What about them? What are these principles? How far does their limit of understanding democracy, procedure, respect for the Constitution and everything else go? Let the Serbian Parliament resolve some questions to prevent the following compositions from breaking the Constitution in this way. If we start working by breaking the Constitution, then we'd better stop. What's particularly interesting, for a long time, in every way possible and conducted, is trying to make the reputation of the Assembly and MPs collapse to the lowest possible branches and do so consciously, all with an explanation, do, or do nothing. In such a way, the water likely slowly cites to its own well those who advocate the so - called so - called water. civil or non-governmental sectors, NGOs. We'll get into a situation where we won't even need the Assembly anymore. There are so many NGOs, their influence is so great, informal, but extremely significant. Just take Natasa Kandic, see what she does in this country, but couples the court, do whatever she wants. Look at what the ambassadors in our country are doing to us. We don't need a Parliament at all, we don't need MPs, we ambassadors form a government. One ambassador in charge of one party or two or three, so Serbia will cut its costs, it will need neither the assembly nor MPs, ambassadors meet and they agree who will and how it will rule. There's a problem with this "yellow" company. Your frames are breaking down so fast. I don't know what's wrong with you and Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u87	Mr. Todorovic, seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u88	I'm sorry, I know I'm a little out of the loop, but it's really interesting what happened to God, that he didn't get involved. What happened to "the Duke of Meridian Bank"? The minister can't be an MP, it's not that, but you've been itchy by those 11m euros, and he hasn't shared yet with some, but he's kept quiet until we find out. Now there's no more going into the government. That, Mr. Krkobic, is the problem we're facing right now. I simply urge you to ask this question and let us see if we can resolve whether we can violate the Constitution as the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which means that MPs cannot be members of the municipalities at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u89	The word is Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u90	Mr. Chairman, these services continue to put you in trouble and, I would say, a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have downloaded the documents that we apply to the word and, behold, wonders, all of a sudden on that paper that has its own format it's written and that it can sign someone for an MP's group or for an election list. Let me remind you of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. First of all, there is no term for "election list" in the entire Rules of Procedure. The election list in the National Assembly has no right at all. The rights shall be exercised either through a parliamentary group or by MPs who are not members of the parliamentary group. Since the "yellow company" did not form a parliamentary group, you can only treat them as MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, which means that under this Rule 3 Rules of Procedure, they have the right to determine three MPs who will speak for a certain time of five minutes each, every five minutes. Don't insult us. Just because the "yellows" don't have a parliamentary group doesn't mean you can write them the right to be represented here as an election list. The election papers are gone. I hope you're aware that the election is over and that there are only MP groups here now. So please identify those services for us once so we know who's supposed to fly from here. You have become angry with me, and think of how much I should be angry with you, when you have allowed yourself to participate in such frauds of the National Assembly at this age, Mr. Krkobic. This isn't a Parliament of ancient times, this isn't a single-party assembly, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u91	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it was a clear message to everyone from the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, when he said that we would not obstruct the work of the National Assembly unless there was a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, you've gone too far in violation of the Rules of Procedure and in your conduct. On the side of the fact that you have been kidnapped and have allowed yourself to have a personal dialogue with one of the people's MPs, which you cannot possibly from where you are sitting today. On the side that you may have tried to threaten someone, I can also understand that you have humanly responded, emotionally affected by the truth that has been thrown into your face. Since I always like to stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure, I'm telling you again exactly now that I'm advertising the breach of Rules of Procedure in paragraphs 100, 104 and 84. Mr. Chairman, please don't make this out of the assembly anymore. You are obliged, in article 100, to be clearly instructed, that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to, after pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure to explain. I would like to draw your attention once again that you must also, because of the infringement of the 84th member of the Rules of Procedure, where it is said that when you call upon the Assembly in a shorter period of time than normal, you are obliged at the beginning of the session to explain such a procedure. Please, can we reason with you that you're giving us answers or not? Do you want to say thank you and move on, and we ask you simply to answer what the Rules of Procedure says. I don't see any other way to reach you, but in such an unusual and direct way to address you. Believe me, this is actually crossing all the boundaries of decency now. You are going deaf on the 10 demands of the Serbian Parliament, who are asking you to give explanations, and they clearly explain to you why you are obliged to do so, because at this time, national interests are at stake by causing such a session at this time. Please, sir, I know you're this new coalition that's been created, maybe in the heat and the air and the enthusiasm you've set out to do this. The Serbian people say, "The day is known." The Montenegrins say that the coat of arms is difficult to correct. I know you're gonna say that the first kittens throw themselves into the water, but that's something that's very ugly and you're probably gonna do it. Please, Mr. Chairman, give us some answers and we won't really let you disrespect us in this way. So, the dogs bark the caravans pass, Mr. Krkobic is there, the MPs can say what they want, they can appeal to the Rules of Procedure, I won't argue that they're right or that they're not, let's move on. Mr. Krkobabiæ, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u93	National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krkobic, first of all, let me tell you that there were no pensions in Serbia yesterday, I found out last night when I came to Kragujevac. You see how you're being deceived by these yellow companies, by this newly created coalition of yours. Whether to be informed today, here's half-eleven, waiting for pensioners in Serbia, you see who you've caught up with to allegedly rule and improve the standard of our oldest citizens. As for the questions raised by Mr. Todorovic, I would ask you not to go over it so easily. At least you're famous for being a man who loves everything to learn about detail, to get elaborates, reports of anything that is possible, what is impossible, and on this basis you define the position of the United Pensioners of Serbia. Now I would ask you as chairman to define yourself on this matter that is extremely important. So here we now have the suspicious legitimacy of certain people, that I do not list their names, which have been elected presidents of the councils' council, which are part of the role of MPs. You've probably heard of a certain Milovan Dedier, Mr. Krkobic. He is the chairman of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the exercise of public office, and it is not just some group that was founded because this Dedeyer has nothing to do, but because it is a committee that came out of the law passed by the National Assembly, and the law has a title and says - the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Performing Public Functions. Vojislav Kostunica, as president of the DSS-NS coalition, and as a doctor of constitutional law, was explicit in his view that those people, and these are certain individuals who have now changed their minds so that in this yellow coalition, they cannot be MPs in that past assembly of the National Assembly, because that's what he said, Vojislav Kostunica, a doctor of constitutional law. Who better to go than to interpret the Constitution from himself? Now these same people, who changed party uniforms, are in the benches of the MPs, and they can't be because Article 102, mentioned by Mr Todorovic, Section 3, is clear on this issue, the executives cannot be MPs. You now, Mr. Krkobiæ, since you want everything to be detailed, on this basis you are looking at who you will be in the coalition, whether there will be bigger pensions, whether there are grounds, you see that there are no pensions now, not that they are not increased by 10%, not that there are no progress in that sense, but there are no pensions at all, ask nicely and according to this letter and the Constitutional Court and this committee mentioned. And they will send you their position on this matter, where they clearly say, Milovan Dedeyer and the members of the Committee, that this is impossible, that MPs cannot be presidents of the municipalities, or mayors, that it is a violation of the Constitution and the law. The question of the morals of those people who do it is why they do it and why they are so devious, and why they want the yoke and the money, as our people say. They're just like that. For what? Because of the fact that they don't respect what they don't recommend there is someone, but the obligation of every single person in this country. How will we MPs look tomorrow and authentically interpret a member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when people who are doing this are sitting in congregation benches? What are they doing that for? What Mr. Nikolic says is, I'm listening to his suggestion to disband this assembly of the National Assembly. I think that the end will be long before the beginning of how you imagined it, because it is impossible for you to survive on the basis of such non-sufficient compromises, but for the coalition that is educated from foreign centres of power, tycoon and others who do not want well in Serbia, on the other hand, you are in violation of the country's highest legal act. Will Milovan Dedier, listening to what we are now talking about from the assembly pay phone, already today ask the secretary, the competent office, the names of the MPs who at the same time have the office of mayor and the president of the municipality? I think it's his job, that he should already come out in all the media and say it's the people who do it. And if they get an unpublic warning first, then if they don't give a shit, if they sleep peacefully, then let their name be in all the electronic and printed media because of what they do. Mr. Krkobiæ, you do not think that we SRS MPs, who are the largest and best political party in Serbia, have 78 MPs, have not put people in our assembly benches who have the highest office with us, and these are the future mayor of Belgrade, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, Mr. Goran Cvetanovic, who is vice president of the Central Country Administration, Mr. Milorad Mircic and other party officials. We did not give up the possibility of them being, as, as, as, as, as, as Parliamentarians, here, because it is some unfounded decision of ours, but because we respect the Constitution and the law. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic was not a national MP for four years as vice-president of the Central Country Administration since she was the president of the Zemun municipality. (President: Six minutes have passed, be kind. There are so many examples I can give you. Mr. Slavko Jerkovic is not a folk MP, although he was, because he is now the president of the Zemun municipality. Imagine a little above that question and the fact that you are sitting here in the parliamentary benches of people who directly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Prevention of Interest in the exercise of public office. It is much more important, Mr. Krkobic, than to be deceived and deceived by the fact that there is money for pensions, and there are no pensions, and that on this basis you are traveling your way as one man of authority, an honorable man, by the nature of your work, interests and roles you have taken on, because it is not your role to represent the question of how much, but regardless of how many Serbian pensioners and that you advocate their rights, and then you have the role of the chairman and you allow the Constitution and the law to be broken. Don't do that because it'll stay recorded for you. (President: Be kind, seven minutes.) Here, I'm done. I'm very kind, and I ask you to be even more kind than my most kindness and give us the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u95	National MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is truly amazing not to say offensively, that for more than an hour the MPs have been calling on Article 226, asking you to be informed of the very important things that are important for the work of the MPs, and you do not answer a single question, probably using that people's dog bark, the caravans pass. It will pass, however, these are such important issues that MPs will certainly not give up reporting to the Rules of Procedure until they get answers to these questions. A very important issue has also been raised here that has been raised for you, why Serbia has faced the fact that a German representative in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is discussing a very important issue, which is a violation of human rights, crimes in Kosovo and trafficking in human organs by Cypriot terrorists. Some things since the assembly majority began to see themselves when it comes to Kosovo simply have their own trail. The first was refused to discuss in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the declaration of the constitution of the false state of Kosovo, it was prevented to occupy the assembly, to discuss the issue, and then to prevent MPs from the assembly from discussing Kosovo in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We now see that the abolition of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is announced. So these are some things that citizens must know, that the policy announced by the new assembly majority towards Kosovo and Metohija and you, as chairman, must be drastically changed through two acts: by not calling the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to annul the constitution of the false state of Kosovo; by returning MPs from Strasbourg in order not to be able to open up the subject of human rights violations and show the true face of Cypriot terrorists. You have to answer these questions to the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia and tell them why such decisions are being made and whether it is true that professional services have advised you or someone else has done so. We will not give up reporting until we get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u97	National MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about two very important things here today. The first thing, and you, Mr. Chairman, in accordance with our 100th Rules of Procedure, must answer that question because it is extremely important. I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe, as my colleague, Ms Natasa Jovanovic, was given the agenda and was scheduled to discuss it at the conference. I was a representative of the army in several working groups and gave answers, which is extremely difficult, to parents whose children disappeared in Kosovo and Metohija. Now that the issue has been raised at European level, someone has called on our delegation to return to Serbia. We're just asking you for a simple answer - did you do it or did someone ask you to do it? If you did it, we can understand that you were wrong, but you have to tell us from this pay phone. If someone else did, do we want to know who the other one was or did he order you to call off our parliamentarians? These days in the press, you could read that not only were the Cypriot terrorists involved in taking organs from our citizens, but that the institutions present in Kosovo and Metohija, international institutions, were involved. For this reason, the answer to this question is important to us - did you do it, did someone give you an order to do it, and perhaps there is no other institution outside the state of Serbia behind it? And next, Mr. Krkobaci. You looked at this electronic system and said you had 127 and you had most. Mr. Todorovic warned you of Article 102(3). The Constitution: there's not much here in this room. Should we who voted for this constitution in front of the citizens of Serbia be so faceless that we violate it? You don't see Mr. Alexander Vukic and Mr. Cvetanović here in this room. We adhere to every letter of the Constitution and make sure there is no extension of this session until you give answers to these two questions. Who are the people here, not to name them here, because what we did to 11 when we announced a list of 250 MPs was quite fine. After that, it came at a local level, at the province level, to form and elect mayors, the president of municipalities. So there's been a new situation that you as the current chairman of this assembly need to determine. At the beginning of today's session, you should have seen it coming, and not that there is a situation where we in the SRS parliamentary group first warn you of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now we must warn you that the Constitution, Article 102(3) of the Rules of Procedure, has been violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u99	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is generally known that from the five-October DOS bulldozer of the revolution Serbia is not a legal state, that the institutions of the system are not respected, that the institutions of the system do not function. But you, Mr. Krkobiq, are the official from the previous time until 2000, when Serbia was a legal state, when the president of Serbia and the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, when the National Assembly was respected, when it was known who could be in government, who couldn't, who could be in parliament, who couldn't. I'm really surprised that you don't remember that time and don't remind professional service first of all to give you accurate information about what we're saying. These are very, very serious things. So it's not about us talking here just to get out and just say something. No, it's because the SRS is a party that, from its establishment to this day, and in the future, will always advocate respect for the law, respect for the Constitution, respect for all sublegal acts, and that is the only thing that we are asking of you today as chairman, of the congregation majority and of all the MPs. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, put up with it in 2008, that whoever has a majority or even one who doesn't have one, or who has a suspicious majority, gives an answer to every legal question -- I can. There we had the opportunity almost, when the gentleman, acting mayor, Alimpic, was informed by representatives of the SRS, DSS - New Serbia and the group gathered around the SPS, that we had concluded a coalition agreement, that we had provided the assembly majority and that we needed to schedule a session of the City Assembly to form the city's power, that the citizens of Belgrade would not be how long without legal authorities. At that time, Mr. Alimpic said to the representatives of these parties, or this city-level coalition: "I know you're right, but I can." So we will not accept such opinions and we cannot allow it, Mr. Krkobic, and here in this House. No one can say, and the other day I read in some newspaper that one of the mayors, who was elected yesterday or yesterday as mayor, was already a folk MP, and on the question of journalists how he can perform these incompatible functions, says, "What do I care about there, a committee and a Dedire, I'll be what I want to be." Is that democracy? Is that parliamentaryism? What does it look like you've been doing for two days? You've got some people in a hurry, you're in a big hurry. We don't want to throw beans to think about what it is, but whatever it is, respect it, this is a Rules of Procedure that has 241 members and you can respect it and only work on this book, so believe me, we'd be on the last item of the agenda a long time ago. Please, in that sense, Mr. Krkobiæ, to inform us, if you cannot do so immediately, it is possible that you do not have the information we have, to ask the service to tell you - what are the MPs who are here in the O.R., and it does not matter whether they are in the O.R., but are MPs, who are at the same time in one of the functions of conflict of interest, in accordance with Article 102 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Tell us nicely you don't have that information. You have the right, Secretary, to do that. It takes her 15 minutes to let you know about it, and then you have to let us know. Of course, we Serbian radicals will do our job, and when it comes to this, a proposal is already being written to the Constitutional Court, etc., but it is something that is beyond the authority of this Parliament. We ask that we resolve this question and that the gentlemen, who would like to sit on two chairs, choose who they prefer. The fact that we have a bad Law of Conflict of Interest, when that law was passed, we said that this law meant nothing, as it was stipulated. Here's an example: a law that says someone is going to get an unpublished and public notice because it violates the law, of course, is not a law that means something to people without moral integrity, because if they did, they certainly wouldn't be presidents of municipalities and MPs when it's in direct contrast with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u101	National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u102	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivan Krkobiæ, I must first consider whether I am so far away from you that you do not hear when I call upon the Rules of Procedure, nor do you see me when I raise him. I ask you simply to treat every messenger with respect and to give him your word, for you are obliged to give him your word when he asks for it. It's the first violation of the Rules of Procedure I call upon. The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is why I am reporting, is that you still do not respect the MPs in this assembly. Ten colleagues came out seeking answers to an extremely important issue for the state of Serbia. So that's not the whim of each of us individually, that question is extremely important, because we need to get an answer, and we think that you're the address we need to address, which is why the session is scheduled for speed. No constitutional deadlines are under way, no time is wasted in this way, so the session could be scheduled and all MPs from the official assembly delegations are doing their job, which is why they were in the seats for which they received the diaries, the Assembly paid the way and everything else. So it could've gone into retirement, for example. Because of the speed that I say has been caused by nothing, our representatives from the delegation to the Council of Europe have returned to unfulfilled work. So they did not protect the interests of Serbian citizens in the part where it was extremely important, and that is the question we are all asking. Do we sit on the left or right side, that question is equally interested in each of us - was it also who was responsible for the trafficking of Serb authorities that were kidnapped in Kosovo and Metohija? We swore to everyone in the campaign that Kosovo and Metohija are a subject we will not give up on. Let's see 10 days or a month after the election, who stepped away from the topic? So our MPs, our colleagues, are not in the Council of Europe, are not there to defend our interests. Serbia's interests are not even defended by Serbian President Tadic, who was also scheduled to be there and announced. So Serbia's interests have no one to defend on the international stage. Is that an accident, gentlemen? I ask you to answer me, ask one entire side of the congregation to answer that question. I'm absolutely certain that even this other side, which represents the position, is not uninterested in that question. So my question, as well as my colleagues, and we demand an answer and until we get an answer to that question we will ask him because we have the right to do so. In the media, the thesis arises that MPs are not where they should be. Please defend the MPs you represent by being the chairman, and explain why they are not there and who is to blame why all this is happening. We're looking for an answer to that question. It seems to me that perhaps the reason for this incredible speed at which all this was done and the stupidity, the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure and everything else, is that someone is trying to beyond the state and national interest, and that is what is happening in the Council of Europe right now, sets one small partial party interest. Some international and some meetings are mentioned there, so it seems to me that this should be clarified, precisely because Serbian citizens are asking for clarification from MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u103	I'm taking a half-hour break and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the Parliament's office for a consult. [[After breaks – 13,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda: – The election of the president of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I would like to inform you that this session will continue until the end of this agenda. In that case, we'll take a break at 1400 hours. I'd like to inform you that I'm in accordance with Article 10. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, received one proposal for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal has been delivered to you. As you can see, Professor Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, a member of the SPS, was proposed for the president of the National Assembly. I remind you that, according to Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u105	The Honorable Chairman, just to help you, you have not made a good decision with the consultation. We agreed to work today after 1800 hours until we finish the period that's at 1800 hours on the agenda. You've just said we're going to continue until this point is over. In order to help you get the more work done today, I'm telling you, what if this point is done at five, we'll interrupt the session, as you've now informed us. So, please repeat that we'll be working after 18.00 hours today, to finish by the Rules of Procedure, which will be on the agenda at 1800 hours. This does not necessarily mean that it will be the election of the speaker, it may be the election of vice-presidents, since there are already proposals for vice-presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u106	So, I am informing the MPs that we will continue this session until the agenda ends which at that time is on the agenda after 1800 hours. The proposal has been submitted to you, as you have seen, the president of the National Assembly is proposed by Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, member of the SPS. I remind you, according to Article 10(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur may explain this proposal. I'd like to ask the Proposer if he wants to explain the proposal. The People's Messenger, Ivica Dacic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-PUPS-JS parliamentary group has proposed Professor Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic as candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Although it is not directed to speak when ladies are on the subject of age, in the best years, with great professional qualifications, with great political experience, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic was an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in three terms, and was an MP in the Federal Parliament of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro from 2000 to 2006. She was the minister of care for the family in the so-called so-called family. the transitional government after 5 October 2000. He is a permanent member of the VMA Special Exams Commission, produced for international co-operation of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac. He is also co-author of over 200 scientific and professional works. Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic owns both professional and political qualifications to perform this function. Professional qualifications because it has been of great experience and in the business it deals with and of course in the work and work that is necessary at the post of president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Politically speaking, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will represent political views and what is the political interest of our coalition, which is the protection of national and state interests, the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija in the form of the Republic of Serbia, economic development, social justice, European integration. As far as collegiacy is concerned, I am sure that Professor Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will allow this Parliament to have a correct political atmosphere between different political parties, what is most important and that we all realize together that no matter how many political parties and MPs there are, one thing we need to share, and that is the interest of our country and our people, and simply in this sense we do everything and that the work of this highest legislative body of the Serbian state is successful. I call on you to support the election of Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u108	Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the debate time has been set by parliamentary groups as follows: the SRS parliamentary group two hours, 38 minutes, six seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party - Nova Srbija - Dr Vojislav Kostunica one hour and 48 seconds; the SPS-JS 40 minutes and 32 seconds MP group; the Liberal Democratic Party 26 minutes, 21 seconds; the Manjina parliamentary group 14 minutes and 11 seconds. Members of the Parliament who do not belong to any of the parliamentary groups for five minutes pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word in a row of MPs. According to Article 10(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) According to the reports submitted, I ask MP Cedomir Jovanovic to take a word on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Liberal Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u109	Mr President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not an ordinary beginning of the new assembly of parliament, it is not an ordinary start to debate the election of another president, or president of the Republic Parliament. This topic, which I will speak of in my own sense, certainly deserves more than three minutes, as far as you, Mr Dacic, have given us, giving us an argument that needs to convince us that Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic's candidacy is something that deserves the support of the Serbian Parliament. I don't mean the personal qualities of Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic, I mean, above all, a political message that monitors the fact that the SPS gets majority support and thus the opportunity to return to power in this country. Why is this a major political issue for us that deserves much clearer answers than those offered by you? Because the SPS is not a new party, you have not existed as LDP since 2005. You are a party that has had a crucial impact on the policy and fate of millions of citizens of this country. Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic is a representative of your party and therefore a political representative who is returning to power. With what ambition? Whether to strengthen the order established in Serbia after the five-year rule of Vojislav Kostunica, which, insisting on discontinuity with the politics and party of Zoran Djindjic, practically returned Serbia to the 1990s, because the discontinuity with Zoran Djindjic is the continuity of Slobodan Milosevic. Is it with the ambition to strengthen such a order of the SPS back to power, or are you coming to power to help, apparently unsuccessful, a project to transform our society from Milosevic's regime into a democratic regime? You have remained in our debt to answer these questions, Mr Dacic, because this session and this part of the agenda are much more important than the world of what we talked about when we voted on by Parliament's presidents. So far, parliament presidents have been representatives of one clear political option with which part of the Assembly has agreed, and the other has strongly resisted. Come on, help LDP support an idea that was so little talked about in the election campaign. Help us overcome the divisions that exist in Serbia, which have driven the citizens crazy, which have divided the representatives of the SRS devils in the election campaign, and the preferred political partners with whom they chat at the consultations the day after the elections. Help us find, in your three minutes, an argument that allows us to forget all those years of the rule of the SPS, a government that is directly opposed to the aspirations and efforts that you have cited as principles that Mrs Dejanović-Djukić will affirm from the position of the President of the Republic Parliament. Protection of national interests, European integration, defence of Kosovo and Metohija, all that is the legacy of the SPS regime is directly contrary to these efforts. You fought for KIM so that today in KIM space we have an independent state or state that part of the world has recognised, the other part is not, and with which you obviously don't know what to do because you don't have a clear view of it all. Protection of national interests is also something that is completely contrary to the results of your rule in the period of Slobodan Milosevic's regime, and European integration, the way you have conducted negotiations on forming a new ruling coalition, shows your dishonesty in favour of Europe. You have advocated Europe, but provided that the DS is humiliated so much, so that your European efforts reward the post of vice president and second vice president and foreign minister, and Minister of Science and Minister of Mining and Energy, and the Minister of this and the Minister of One, and the Director of One, the Third Public Enterprise, at the end and the President of the Republic Parliament. If it can't, then it's a good coalition with radicals, then it's a good coalition with the DSS, then we're fighting within the framework of the national responsible national government. I don't think that's fair, not according to LDP and our voters, it's not fair to people whose interests you represent here. We are not asking you to spray your ashes, but your return to power obliges us to look back, to an analysis, to an honest, honest and responsible, of everything marked by the period of power of the SPS and the period that you have been so difficult to deal with, which is the period since October 2000 until today, the period that you call a period of rematch, impatience, indemnity, indemnity, the abuse of the SPS, the period during which your president is allegedly sacrificed, a period that cannot remain without a clear answer that we will agree on, but which sooner or later our society will agree. That is why, for us, this is much more than just a simple choice for another leader of the republican parliament, the first among the equals. There is no important fate of Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic at all. It is, by your assessment, the person who is loyal to your party, your policy, the person who has a certain political past, but the return of the SPS, through the election of Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic as president of the Serbian Parliament, has its clear symbolic value. Is this how the new legitimacy of the SPS is given? You don't ask LDP for that legitimacy. You might get it if you were willing to do what all the parties have done for decades run by the countries of Eastern Europe. Since you do not have the power to speak with the right language about your political past, we, in fact, recognize and define your political past as a threat to the interests of Serbian citizens, who deserve a different life in the future than those offered by the Socialists during the 1990s. That is why we do not want to support Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic's election as president of the republican parliament. That is why we must say that Mrs Dejanovic's election as President of the Republic's Parliament is without any attitude in which she would recognise herself ready to take responsibility for what was happening in the country, an insult to Serbia's democratic public. For the public represented by Mr. Stevanovic, the public who was beaten in 1996 in Kragujevac, is that right, Mr. Stevanovic, when the public defended its electoral will. I know that between the two bad ones, which is the most common choice that politicians in Serbia are reduced to, you choose what you interpret as smaller ones. That says how unfair your coalition partners are. Could the President of the Republic Parliament be the person responsible for the 1996 election theft? Do we, by going over such a fact, permanently take off this ballast past and turn to some new relationships, or are we just making a mistake that was already made once after 2000? The LDP doesn't think to make peace with one of those facts. The SPS voters and LDP voters and DSI voters need an efficient parliament, they need normal political relations, but nothing normal can come from turning their heads in front of those facts that, as a boomerang, come back to us in the time ahead. It is true that the SPS has the right to say that the Socialists have not changed, that everyone else has changed. It is true that no one can take away your right to assist, within the limits of your abilities, all of those projects in society that you consider important and beneficial for society. It is true, and above all, that you too represent citizens who want what the citizens we represent, a little more happiness, peace, pleasure, less tension, more order in the country, but something like that is impossible. It is impossible to build on phrases and tense thesis, which are far from reality exactly how far away is the Museum of wax figures in Jagodina from the Madame Tiso Museum in London. Mr. Dacic, more than three minutes requires this debate, more than your three minutes. We saw an impressive personal career in Mrs Dejanović-Djukic's work biography. I am not expert in assessing how much this is the basis for successfully dealing with the work of the President of the Republic's Parliament, but no fact about Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic's political career. Why? What's the problem with that? What is the problem with the fact that Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic describes as former SPS vice president as a representative of a single policy, as a person who advocated certain political values? Are these values controversial today, so you do not want to talk about them and therefore avoid the political past of Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic? Or are these facts so insignificant in themselves that they deserve no comment? If Mrs Dejanovic's political career is irrelevant, then she does not have the political weight to lead the republican assembly, but we all know very well that this is not the right answer. We all know that you're trying to somehow change the position you're in in this 2008 without any willingness to do what has to be done, to take responsibility, besides the one you're taking over for the future with this choice, to take responsibility for what happened in this country, and that's what you have to do. He can't, and that's our message DS, he can't place the first man in the republican parliament as the price to be paid to create a ruling coalition. If there is no willingness among partners to contribute to the achievement of those objectives discussed in your coalition, the Europeanisation of society, economic development, the acceleration of transition, and the three seats of the President of the Republic of Parliament will not be sufficient. For us, this parliament is a symbol of the struggle that must not be devised, and now it is unthinkable, the struggle for democracy, the fight against the rule of terror, the fight in which you were the victims of your new coalition partners, and you have the right to quietly agree to pay the price that takes away your freedom to talk about it, but you do not have the right to take away that freedom from the citizens of Serbia by your collective consent to such a huge mistake. Many parties in the former communist bloc in Europe have transformed and they play a significant role in their society, and it is certain that such a transformation is necessary for Serbia itself. And not the kind of national reconciliation in which we all need to identify ourselves in the pain we have towards Zoran Djindjic and Slobodan Milosevic, but the kind of national awareness that will allow citizens to understand what was wrong with the time we leave behind, so that these mistakes do not happen again in the future government. How powerless this parliament looked during its first working day, surrounded by the oldest member of parliament to be chaired, the assembly in the blockade. How will this institution function unless there is a willingness and an elemental agreement on the direction that society needs to develop, about the points in which we will argue. If the ruling coalition is created in this way, then the problem is prolonged, the problem is prolonged, and the problem itself is deformed and developed for all this time. We fight it. We need an efficient parliament and we need a leader of this parliament to symbolize European Serbia, and European Serbia is not the one Serbia you asked for, Mr Dacic, with the Spanish prime minister or with the leader of the Socialist International. The European Serbia exists in fragments, and it is, above all, merely a hint of those values that could not be affirmed during the period of rule of your party and values that have been achieved with great effort for the past eight years. If you think the Socialists deserve the position of Parliament's president, then you take the lead in our democratic order, and if you take it, tell us with what intentions. Do you intend to lead this country in a new way, different from the one you have led in the past or with the intention of even more effective implementation of that policy that your multi-year coalition partner, Mr Kostunica, has conducted in Serbia? If you're going a new route, don't keep quiet about what you can't keep quiet about. What was wrong with the old man? If you're going to continue on the old road, then you should tell these citizens, because they have the right to hear something like that. This is more necessary than the phrases on the national responsible policy, the defence of Kosovo, European integration, social justice, because all your goals are the direct opposite of your policy results. That's why we can't agree to this proposal. Of course we will co-operate correctly in this parliament, that we will respect the Serbian Parliament's institution through a fair relationship with Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic. But, ma'am, you, in our opinion, do not deserve the post of president of the Serbian Parliament, because you have shown no personal gesture of willingness to appreciate, for example, Mr. Stevanovic's efforts, which he signed under your candidacy. You haven't corrected your past mistakes by saying that to the Kragujevci simply - I'm sorry, I made a mistake, I realized, let me do something better. On the contrary, you are acting triumphantly, as well as your party, because of the devastating fact that in Serbia now, in a political sense, a circle is closing in the same place where the internal reform process began eight years ago. The values that moved us back then are the values that we hold to today and why we don't think we agree to that kind of political compromise that must make DS. But in advance, we show not only the skepticism, but we also announce a fierce struggle against every political intention, which would give us a sign of equality between the 1990s and the time ahead or the political intentions which would have been so great a story of the time ahead that it would have taken us to shut our mouths and take away the right to talk about Serbia's need and for the truth, and for justice, and for political honesty, which there is so little in those three minutes Mr Dacic, in which he didn't think he was obliged to send to this society those messages that no one from LDP can send for him. If you are for Europe, then you realize that you are the ones who have to account for the anti-European legacy of your policy, that you are the first to talk about the Supreme Court's verdict, which has been given the strictest prison sentences for the political murders committed by the high officials of your authority. Radomir Markovic was an assistant interior minister in the SPS government. You are the ones who have to talk about it and the weight of your words makes a lot more sense than what we're talking about, and about political killings, the rule of terror, the devasion of institutions, the war, the crimes, the destruction of Serbia, the mugging of citizens. All these answers must be given by your policy. If there's anything we can do to help you, we'd be happy to do so, but I think the limits of our maximums are to ask these questions and introduce a political alternative. There is no support for the return of the SPS to power because the SPS has returned that policy we have been fighting for years and is directly opposed to the interests of our voters and the interests of citizens who have supported you in the previous elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u110	I call on Mr Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-NS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u111	Let me begin by correcting you, the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Nova Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica, is called a parliamentary club. Don't count this on me at the time of the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia that I believe you are monitoring this transmission, and especially because of you watching this transmission, I am obliged to say that my belief is that at today's session, citizens of Serbia are not elected by the President of the National Assembly. Serbian citizens pick him indirectly through the MPs, and in this case, not even that. Can you imagine, could you ever imagine that you would be in a situation, all of you who voted for political parties, mostly sitting on my left, or right side of the National Assembly, who would have a joint proposal to elect Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, former SPS vice president as National Assembly president? I am not saying this because of Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic's personality, because I am not going into it, but because the election of the president of the National Assembly hides a certain political symbolism within me. I won't go too far and too deep. It applies exclusively to day - to - day political symbolism because it marks what it means to form a congregation majority in political practice. So, the current assembly majority was obviously formed on the basis of two days of some consultations and negotiations held under the current formed bloc between the List for European Serbia, the Socialist Party of Serbia and their partners on their list, in which we have no idea if any principles of functioning and new authorities have been established. Why do we doubt that? It's simply because everyone was able to monitor the course of the election campaign. In the election campaign, political parties set out their programme goals, what they will stand for in the coming period if they are in a position to exercise power in Serbia. During that election campaign, my political party, our DSS and New Serbia, our list stood for four principles. The first principle is to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the state, the second principle was European integration, the third principle of economic recovery of society and the fight against poverty and the fourth fight against organised crime and corruption. More or less all the other major political parties represented similar principles in this campaign, so one would wonder what the difference was. The difference, ladies and gentlemen, is dear citizens, in political practice, not in what is said, but in what seems to be. Regardless of the similarity of the principles that could be heard from the speakers of those politicians who interpreted political parties' views during the election campaign, on the basis of only one event, it was enough to assess who is telling the truth, and who is not, at least when it comes to something the DSS considers an essential issue for this country, which is the defence of the integrity of the state itself. For us, Serbia is something that is a priority. For us can't be priorities of joining various international institutions or European integration, it's something that the need of a state is, it's something to fight for, but it can't be a priority for all priorities. If you do not have a state that has its integrity, which with its integrity in general can participate in international organisations, you are free of membership in those same organisations. It's something that must have a consensus in society, with all the respect of those who think differently. I sincerely hoped that those who thought differently would remain in an important minority in this country. Based on that belief, there was a previous government that lasted about ten months. In the end, it was found not possible. Which was the lacmus paper, which was the way to assess whether what we're talking about fits political practice or not? Very simply, it was a major challenge for us during the election campaign, which is to offer signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is something that the DSS has been trying to do all these years and we've shed a bloody sweat to get to the stage, in a phase that such an agreement can be signed at all. The moment the agreement was initialled in December 2007, political circumstances, political facts were such that it could be initialled, because no one then declared Kosovo and Metohija independence, at that time no EU state recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. The moment that certain provisions of this Agreement were made, which should later be interpreted and applied in practice, especially those relating to good neighbourly relations with the countries surrounding us, simply imposed a certain clarification or redefinition of the agreement before anyone dared to sign it. That was why we had new parliamentary elections, that was why there was a serious misunderstanding between the DSS and DS, that was why we today, not for three years, have a constitutional session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. During the election campaign, DSS and NS, especially after the campaign, we presented our programme and marked the differences, and after the election campaign, we tried to make an agreement with those political parties on the formation of the executive government in Serbia, the responsible national government, which will at least protect one excessive interest, which is the interest of maintaining the state, integrity and sovereignty of the state. And all the differences that exist between political parties, which exist objectively between DSS and DSS, the SSS and the NSS, the SAA, the DSS and the NS, would have been worth stepping up to that environment. After the election, we were able to negotiate with only two political lists to form a new government because of what we could find, it seemed to us at that point, an agreement on this issue. All of this, of course, fell apart for the simple reason that one of these lists, led by the SPS, simply changed its policy, changed the policy in the part where the policy was very clear for citizens during the election campaign, at least when it comes to the most fundamental and most important issue, which is to protect the territorial integrity of the state. On 29 April when it was signed by the DS, and on behalf of the Serbian state allegedly, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, SPS President Ivica Dacic, I paraphrase because I do not have the text on me, gave a statement containing the next finding -- that no one has the right in Serbia at the time to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because signing the agreement would mean implicit recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Only a few months after that, the political party, or its president, made an agreement with the DS, based on which we do not know. When the SRS, DSS and NS negotiated with the list led by the SPS, we publicly exposed the principles on which to form a new government, which includes other compromises on the very important political differences that exist between these parties, and only to protect one, first and basic principles. That's when we talked about it in public, and now we don't even know what it's about. We read in the newspaper that there is a division of some resistors, who are going to take action, which leads us to think that, unlike what we talked about publicly, here was something secret all the time and, above all, political trade in the most banal sense of that word. Because when it comes to protecting state principles, I don't see anything here. The only thing I can see, which may have been secret, and it has not been said publicly or publicly, based on statements made by individual DS officials or by DS President Boris Tadic, unfortunately the president of the state at the moment, is that the intention of this newly created coalition is, in fact, the protection of the Eulex Mission in Serbia. The protection of Mission Eulexa in Serbia is, in fact, what is the backbone of the formation of this new government. The protection of Mission Eulexa, I purposely use the term protection of Mission Eulexa, because this is something that has been built by son qua non-final solution for independent KiM, because EULEX and decision on Eulex has only one meaning, on the basis of documents that can be read as it has been made in the European Commission, Mission Eulexa means only one thing - support to apply Ahtisaari's plan on Serbia's territory, i.e. The works of Serbia called Kosovo and Metohija, to create the first NATO state in history. So that's the historical role of this coalition. Maybe someone doesn't want to admit it publicly or can't, maybe someone doesn't understand it, but that's what's going to happen in political practice in the future -- live or see. When it comes to the way this session is called, which we have already talked about, the way this session is called is best talked about what your intentions are. If this session had been called in a decent way, because no constitutional deadlines or legal deadlines pressured anyone that it had to be completed from Wednesday to Sunday, then you would probably have to put yourself in a position to explain these things, to clarify these issues that were raised here and to see why and how it is possible that those who sought each other's ban on the work of political parties sit in the same coalition. It is enough just to list Nenad Canka, who has repeatedly demanded a ban on at least two political parties in Serbia -- that is the SRS and the SPS. Let's see how it's possible that they're working with this same Nenado Canka within the same Ivica Dacic coalition, which has demanded the ban on Cankova's party. To tell you the truth, I mentioned it as an opportunity of my own time, and I still think so. How is it possible for the president of the DS to notice that the time has come when it can be completely uninterrupted, without any complexes or problems, to co-operate with the SPS, which was an absolutely forbidden political party with the DS until a month ago? How is that possible, can anyone explain it to the citizens of Serbia? Don't think I'm worried about you cheating on your voters? I don't have that kind of concern, and it suits me, and you're welcome to do it. Because when people feel and see what you've done, they'll put their finger on their foreheads and think about who they'll trust in the next election when they are. It's okay, but I'm truly sorry, because we don't have the right to live above their fates, over their lives, and that at least 10 minutes of their time that they're going to use to stop at polling stations, even if they don't think about politics all year long, they're going to be abused in this way -- that's no one's right to work. What we stood up for in the election campaign is what we worked on after the election campaign and that's what we wanted. When it comes to political parties' mutual co-operation in Serbia, don't think that what I've said so far is impossible. It is also necessary for me there is no illegal political party in Serbia. For me, all political parties in Serbia are legitimate, because this legitimacy is given by citizens, and as they behave and work political parties in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country, they have the right to exist and do not exist. forbidden political parties. The problem is, on what basis is the ruling majority in Serbia formed? That's what the problem is. We are our principles, those of the couple we brought out, publicly defended them, aware of the fact that political parties are entering the coalition, aware of the facts of the past of these political parties, aware of the facts of what any of them were doing. When it comes to the SPS, the SPS supported the minority government of the DSS and the G17 plus and some of our partners in the earlier term. The hand that was provided to us by the SPS at that time was accepted, because at that moment it was only possible for the state interest and we then of the only words of praise for the SPS brought only that - that it is good that they behave in accordance with the principle of protection of state interests and that is all. The DSS has never stood up to anyone who unfortunately is no longer with us today, expressing common pain and similar things. The DSS has never praised the SPS, praised the political party, as dared by DS President Boris Tadic, unfortunately, when it comes to the SPS these days, to justify the coalition, which was impossible three months ago. How is that impossible? How is that possible, unless some other interest connected all of you, my dear lights at the traffic light, to protect Mission Eulex in Serbia, destroyed the integrity of this country, unfortunately, and to end some other business? I do not believe, apart from the leadership of these political parties, that anyone in the wider membership of these political parties is particularly delighted with what has been done, and I even less believe that what is now being done is something that will produce good for the citizens of Serbia. Unfortunately, I must say, the government will be very soon formed, and it will be in a certain day and the opposition cannot influence it, because the opposition is there to be in the minority, every day until the government is formed -- it is the last happy day for the state of Serbia, until that government you form changes one day. It's something you can talk about now. When we talk about the Serbian president's proposal for a mandate, and when this light coalition is finally formed through the executive authority the next week, in the course of this session, which I hope will be next week, in a normal working day atmosphere, not hiduki over the weekend, then we will talk more closely about these differences. We're going to talk more specifically about how it's possible for those who accuse each other of political murder, who, by some, are not resolved until today? How it is possible that a trial that lasted, for what was called a political murder, would be suddenly completed right in the eyes of the formation of the government itself with the SPS, etc. These are some questions that are very interesting. When we negotiated the formation of executive power, when the DSS played a role in this country's management of the country's executive power, we did so and based exclusively on some principles, without any emotional, crying outcry of compassion or sacratic relations with the political parties we work with. We did this exclusively to defend certain interests and every collaboration that existed at the time was interpreted in this context. I can't say anything else but every honor to you, every problem to the citizens of Serbia who have welcomed this today, but I hope we will welcome that moment and the day when this circus you're making will change to a stable national responsible state authority. Unfortunately, there will be a period when a lot of damage will be done to Serbia itself, but the happy environment for us, who, on behalf of the Serbian citizens, as much as they have given us legitimacy, we are trying to interpret their views and will, any happiness for us - even though we will not be directly responsible for what the next period brings us, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u112	I thank Mr. Aligrudic's MP, and I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15/15]] We're continuing our work. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, unlike the predecessors, I see no reason to insist so much on any differences within the assembly majority proposed today by the president of the National Assembly. I think this is a natural coalition. It's more and more like it's absolutely natural, this coalition of the SPS and DS. I guess that'll show up soon. Many years ago, when I was young, there was a group of Mirzino flock, Mirza and Mirzino flock, and this is the flock of Vojislav Kostunica. It all went down under his wings and again proposed to us as the president of the National Assembly of MPs who barely got into parliament. It's the humiliation of the National Assembly, to whom we've been present since you dosmanians came to power. For you, the president of the assembly is the coalition partner who has the least MPs. You, too, tell the MPs and the entire congregation how much you really appreciate the National Assembly. The function of the president of the National Assembly serves exclusively for the promotion of coalition partners. And not to protect the integrity and dignity of the National Assembly, not to say anything to the government, whose majority here chooses it, not to bother at least the Assembly to adopt the Constitution of the envisaged constitutional laws, within the deadline provided for by the Constitution. Here's how many years the National Assembly has been the maids of every government of the Republic of Serbia. This election today will only continue. Before I left, I got a message from a friend of mine from the SPS, I mean a well-intentioned one, who says, "Don't get too hard, so these mine don't find the basis for breaking the coalition for Belgrade. "You know, my speech cannot be the basis for breaking up the coalition for Belgrade. The basis for that coalition is morality. If there are morals, that coalition will remain. If there's no morals, it's not worth it, I can praise you, I can cook in the stars, I can lie about you, and you'll break up that coalition. After all, if you are honest and if you really want to keep the coalition for Belgrade, you could have said nicely to Boris Tadic: "It's okay, we are making a majority for the National Assembly, but our condition is that on the same day also be the session of the City Assembly in Belgrade." He couldn't say no to you. He cares too much about choosing this government to play with your desire to be with whoever you want in Belgrade. The only thing that hurts is that Boris Tadic is pressing you and you're doing something against your will, and there's no reaction on your part at all. The more pressure you get, the deeper you're going to sink, until one day someone says, "We're not going to put up with this anymore." Think of Serbia as well. Today, I'm a little over the rules that exist within the SRS, which is that we don't discuss too much about candidates that others suggest for functions. You really don't know how to follow those rules, so why should we? For you, such rules are not a policy guide. You watch when someone suggests your candidate to find the basis to blacken a man, an idea, an ideology, a way of proposing or the reasons for proposing. I don't have much to say about Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, but I have something to remind her of. It'll probably help her out a little bit in her life. I kind of went into years to give advice, so I have to go to Slavica, who probably has advice for a lot of people. When a man is baptized, he enters into a religion, or when he comes out of the faith, and enters another, he becomes subject to denial. In our Christianity, you must give up Satan. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will have to give up something from her life. First, he'll have to give up October 5th. If it hadn't been for the police on October 5th, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, your head was hanging about the end. Several thousand dissatisfied citizens, led by your colleagues and the political power of DOS, requested your head in a circle of the Clinical and Hospital Center on October 5th. All those colleagues are there with you today. As of today, you should be coalition partners. They don't appreciate you any more than that October 5th. You must give up Mira Markovic. True, you did it too quickly the other day, and then it turned out that DOS would accept some concessions towards Mira Markovic. You must give up Slobodan Milosevic. This is not a party that chooses you because you faithfully followed Slobodan Milosevic. They say they're choosing you because you don't have his ideas anymore, and I know that's not true. I know the SPS can't exist without the idea of Slobodan Milosevic, because what would you be doing on a political stage? If you go in with "yellows", what would the people vote for you afterwards, when they have their "yellows"? So what makes you different from the yellow ones? You'll have to give up your social property, everything the communists built, and DOS stole from the outrageous robbery privatisation you were against. Where are all these factories now? Who is the cause of the disappearance of the Serbian economy? DOS. How are you going to do it with them now? You'll have to give up the fight against poverty. DOS has impoverished Serbian citizens. DOS turned them into beggars. You'll have to give up the fight against crime, because you won't dare any DOS criminal to chase. You're with them now in the coalition. You'll still be chasing that poor girl who steals her eggs at the market to take home and fry the baby. And those who have sickened Serbia, they are now getting the Prime Minister, the tycoons are getting the Prime Minister. The lobby, which has robbed Serbia since 2000, has been set up by the Prime Minister. I don't see the SPS here, and I don't see you as a person I greatly appreciate. You must give up fighting for workers' rights because workers' rights are threatened by the arrival of DOS to power. Or maybe you've forgotten who passed the Labour Act, the Pension-Invalid Act, the Social System, the Strike Act, the Company Act. You will also have to give up your colleagues, tens of thousands of Socialists, who are not so fortunate, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to return to office as Parliament Speaker. Today, who knows where, none of them have jobs, and they ran the Serbian economy and believed firmly in the ideas that you must now continue to propagate. You will also have to give up Dragoljub Milanovic. The difference between your fate and the fate of Dragoljub Milanovic is that he was found on the street without the police. You, fortunately, had the protection of the police. You will have to give up yourself a little, because you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, among many coalition partners, see your patients, not your colleagues. I wish you good luck. Now this is because of my soul I had to tell you, no matter how you figure it out. And the rest is up to you. You're a good doctor, a university professor. They need a towel at the office of the President of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u115	I thank Mr. Nikolic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word, with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS - NS and LDP. According to this schedule given here, there are 28 speakers reported. We'll begin the discussion in that order. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not answering the Rules of Procedure, I'm reporting as a proposal, so you don't think I want to rephrase anyone or advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I just want to say a few findings that have been heard, not so much in the presentation of Mr Nikolic, but in the presentation of Milos Aligrudic and Cedomir Jovanovic. What we're talking about today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS passed in 2004, when we decided to support the parties of the former DOS. What we were saying and what you were saying then, and now it's a topic. It's true that these are the parties that we've dealt with the most, and not you, but us. I'm talking because we've been in power for ten years, so no desire for any replicas and no desire to reduce any contribution, or conflict, etc. But I want to tell you the next thing you know, in 2004, for me, it may have been one of the hardest days of my political career, when I voted by calling to elect Dragan Marscanin as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Today we vote in favour of the election and I will say 'for' Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's election to the SPS candidate, with pride and great satisfaction. If anyone is talking about voters, I would like the Democratic Party of Serbia to list one voter who voted for Kostunica in 2000, and that he thought Kostunica would be in a coalition with the SPS or in 2008 in a coalition with the SRS and the SPS. Our decision does not mean the disappointment of other people's voters or the joy of others. It means that the SPS and our coalition have their principles and policies that we have no intention of changing. On what principles do we make a coalition? On the same, ladies and gentlemen of the DSS and the NS you made the same coalition with last year. Have we changed our mind in the conversation? When you changed your mind last year, Milos Aligrudic went out for this pay phone and said, "I don't need this for more than one minute. So, the thing is very simple. Political parties, whose MPs are signatories of the proposal, have reached a political agreement on forming a parliamentary majority and a political majority in this parliament, which is practically going towards reaching an agreement on forming a government. Of course, this proposal has been made accordingly in order to make an adequate change as speaker of parliament. It's very simple." That, ladies and gentlemen, is one minute. So I have no intention of voting for anyone else or against the SRS and the DSS. It's not my idea to criticize the parties we've been working with. I don't think of it because in its history, the SPS was in power for four years with New Democracy and the secluded part of DS 1990s, for three years we ruled alone, three plus one year with the SRS and three years with DSS, G17 and SPO. If we're talking about a traffic light, the difference in a traffic light can only be in one color, instead of your blue one, it can only be red now. Here you don't need a relationship with political parties to depend on whether you're with someone or you're with someone else. I think it is absolutely incorrect on the political scene of Serbia's political party to qualify that they are good if they want to co-operate with you, not if they do not want that co-operation. We have our principles that we certainly will not stand down from. That Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is a good candidate, assess yourself and vote. Are our principles? Our principles aren't giving up everything that's been in our past. Each party has its own political identity, just as any party should carry out an analysis of the conduct of the government from its period, and the SPS, and the SRS, and the DSS and, of course, the DS and all others involved. Could political conflicts be overcome and political unity over a project, which will include defence of national and state interests and of Serbia's European integration. We think they're possible. Besides, it's an SPS decision. When the elections were held, Mr Nikolic told his voters he wanted to make a coalition with Kostunica and minority parties. If there was no majority, he said there would be elections. After all, he told me he'd go to the coalition with us just as long as he needed us to form the majority. Fair enough. Of course, in politics, at least you know well, there are only political interests, not sympathy or antipathy. That logic wasn't invented by the SPS. As far as we're concerned, we're not and we have no intention of having a conversation with other political parties on the subject of the SPS decision. That's our political question. It's a tough decision for us, but there's no policy-making without hard decisions, at least you know it well. On the other hand, the SPS has no intention of directing its policy towards others. It only intends to keep each of the parties in any coalition with the SRS, DS, DSS, their political identity. We did not go to elections to allow the SRS, or DS, or Vojislav Kostunica to rule, but that the SPS and our coalition achieve their political and programming goals. And Cedomir Jovanovic is right there. After eight years, this is the return to power of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u117	I thank Mr. Dacic. The first reported to a replica by Mr. Jovanovic. Please take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u118	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've signed up for business law on the line. Mr. Dacic, there's no need for that kind of persuasion that you're giving here to Parliament right now. This kind of speech is a speech for the main committee of your party. What Serbia's citizens need, as much as LDP voters, as much as those who voted for you, is to create an environment for, say, the kind of reality in which they would be real and your wishes that you have now made. Of course it takes elemental, not political unity, but an elementary understanding and a distinction between the interests of the party and the interests of the state or society. But you have your relationship with the fact that she follows Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic's election as Parliament's president. You, through your relationship with that fact, which actually describes your return to power, are practically narrowing down the possibility of creating an atmosphere in which we could agree on the way this European modern Serbia project will be realized and implemented. In one of the campaigns during the 1990s, your presidential candidate's messages were "Serbia and the world". Technically, that message cannot be resented, but that message was not followed by politics, there was no ability to understand Serbia's interests and to understand the world that Serbia belongs to and that we are trying to get close to today. What is the way your European efforts are manifested at this point? Through good wishes? That's not enough. Even with those we least agree with, we cannot deny their right to wish this society the best. If you are a European leftist, which you can become, then show what you are different, as the leader of a party that has such a long history, from the political history and the party that compromises you at this time, which is so difficult that you cannot speak of it today openly, and that history is different from the efforts in which, for example, the formal ideology of your party is built, from the struggle for social justice, for equality, for mutual respect, for the rule of law, for the affirmation of institutions. This is the fourth or fifth parliament since October 2000, and we cannot go beyond the fact that some of the debates that have remained on the sidelines during previous calls are being bypassed. If we failed to do something in 2000, so we skip it now, then we will not be far from the results that are devastating, which today represent Serbia as the most unfortunate European society. Yes, it is necessary to agree on a national policy, because the policy that has been led in this country for the past eight years is an expression of continuity with the policy that was led during your rule period and therefore the outcomes are devastating. (President: Please, Mr. Jovanovic, time. I'm sorry, I'll finish, very briefly. So your return to power must follow the assurances that there are some new beliefs and values in your policy, a willingness to take responsibility for what has been done wrong or to defend such a thing. But if this is the new SPS, what was the mistake with the old guy? If you are not making a difference between the '90s and today, then we are obliged to tell you that the price that Serbia has paid for this wrong policy is too high and to deny you trust because we do not think that society should again suffer for such a political mistake as was the mistake Serbia followed by handing over the fate of millions of citizens to one party. In this, there is a fundamental misunderstanding, the difference and basis of our non-compliance with the election of Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic as speaker of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u119	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u120	I really have no intention of doing business with Mr. Dacic, and especially not the way he says it, because I think, in the heat of political struggle, a man can say what he doesn't mean, except I'll never say what I don't mean, even if it costs me. Once you transfer to me, Mr. Dacic, that I said that we would only make a coalition with you if necessary, then say that Tadic told you that he would never make a coalition with you. It was all in the same campaign. Now, I guess I was talking worse about you when I said-- we'll go with you if necessary, and Tadic was talking more beautiful about you, he said--I'll never go with them. To remove one doubt from you. The second is that you were the most in conflict with DOS. For two reasons only, you were in conflict with the DOS: when you defended Serbian national interests, DOS attacked you and the DOS attacked you to steal the election. You've never had a fight with them again. You had a conflict with us when it seemed like you were going to the DOS side too much. Now you see if you will be able to implement the programme, which I want you to carry out, defend Serbian national interests and enter Europe. Soon you will have this dilemma here, at a session of the National Assembly, when we make it a condition for you to vote to enter Europe, provided we interpret KIM as an integral part of Serbia. Will it grant you a new coalition partner, who does not think of it, who has prevented us from talking here about the Kosovo Constitution, which has prevented us today from attending the election of rapporteurs, who will finally once establish the truth about the abducted Serbs, who is not going to Strasbourg tomorrow to speak to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe because someone will ask him what he thinks of the Kosovo Constitution? Whenever you talk about who you voted for in DOS, you didn't just vote for the Martian. You also voted for Vuk Draskovic, never forget that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u121	I thank Mr. Nikolic. Replica, Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u122	I apologize to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, he is absolutely right, almost all the parties, or all the parties in this assembly, and perhaps even on the political scene of Serbia, did not speak so highly of the SPS. Probably a lot of them wanted us to disappear from the political scene, to destroy us, but the coalition never pretends to be with political alike, because they're not there. If we were like-minded, we'd be in the same parties. Of course, I didn't want to say anything wrong with all this, but I was going to say that October 5th was against the SPS government. Speaking of stealing elections, the SIK has been released from all responsibilities before the Supreme Court, so that the 2000 elections were not stolen, the judicial authorities who were somehow elected here, at the session of our committee or the National Assembly, besides, without the influence of the SPS. I have no intention of plowing with any other party. We are a party that takes care of national and state interests and we will never change our KIM policy, just as you are well aware that, as far as the EU is concerned, we are in favour of joining the EU and we understand and we believe that in this agreement with the EU, contrary to perhaps some other opinions, there should be a provision that Serbia understands this agreement as a confirmation of its territorial integrity and sovereignty. So, today, I repeat again, no matter what we voted for others, that's why in 2004, I said in 2004 there was a painful year for us, in that coalition that we back then there was almost a majority of those who are now in this other coalition, but even then, we didn't make a coalition now to betray our policy or to give up something from our past. We would also like to ask if it is possible to find a common denominator for Serbia to be better tomorrow in the policy of overcoming past conflicts. We think so. Whether we're right or wrong, it'll show time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u123	We are moving on to a debate on the election of the speaker of the assembly according to the list that was previously delivered to us. I call on MP Vesna Pesic LDP to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u124	Dear People's MPs, honourable MPs, it seems to me that too many big words are being used here when discussing the election of an SPS representative for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is clear that coalition partners have traded among themselves and have decided to assign this place to the SPS in the trade. We can have arguments why in that trade, which we know exists and we can't pretend crazy that we don't know, it would be better if those stores didn't exist, but I hope that this government will prove more pro-European by reducing that commercial activity. I'd like to give you an argument as to why I don't think that trade was well done, why the SPS shouldn't have given to win this post as president of the National Assembly of Serbia. I don't think that was good, because parliament, whatever it is, is the most transparent institution for our citizens. If he can see anything, anything he can follow, it can follow this parliament. Everything that happens in the government, in public enterprises, it will be shared, what is real trade, they don't know much about it, and here they can still see what their representatives are saying, what their representatives are doing and finally Parliament is the place of sovereignty and our citizens. So parliament is an institution, which should fully represent the express will of citizens. Since it is my estimate that citizens in the largest number have declared themselves pro-European Serbia, it would certainly be more logical that someone from the pro-European party has been given the post and representatives of this Assembly, not someone who certainly does not symbolize the position of pro-European Serbia, such as the SPS. In doing so, I will not enter into moral and other arguments. What I would like to say as a major change and where it really should have been seen that this logic was to be followed, I would quote Mr. Ivica Dacic, who once said, I think it was some session around Kosovo, he said - why you took us off our hands, thinking of October 5th, if you're leading our policy. I've been thinking a lot about that statement he made. Why did we really take them off if those who came to power run the same policy as the SPS? In other words, we from the opposition, especially from LDP, have often criticised the government of Vojislav Kostunica primarily to lead a policy of continuity with Slobodan Milosevic. Now you see, I think Ivica Dacic and the SPS have made the right decision to give most of the List for European Serbia. Here's why. Because he said there was no change in that policy, that the same policy as the 1990s, I think that citizens in the elections, no matter what the DS says, no matter what the party says and formulates, I think the citizens in those elections have said what they want. They said there, too, I must say, I also answer to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, they said that if we say that the policy of the 1990s, if we can formulate it and say that it was a policy in which it was required to round up a great Serbian national state to carry out a huge economic destruction, that many people and citizens were killed, that Serbia was largely killed, that other nations were killed, that wars were waged, that we didn't reach 1989 today, we were fighting so much in those wars. Your party, as well as the DSS party, said very precisely - in the first place of Kosovo, and then life. The people said it this time - twice we can't. They said, gentlemen, change national policy, no longer can life sacrifice itself to national politics. That's what they said in these elections, and that's why you got fewer votes, and that's why the people's coalition failed in these elections. They said, agree national and life. There's this major change that's happened. Citizens say nice -- we don't have to recognise Kosovo, no one makes us admit Kosovo, you yell that Kosovo is ours, but we won't sacrifice any more black under our nails. That's what the people said in these elections. That was the change you didn't know. You expected more votes, you got fewer votes. How did the national party go? It's a disaster. She formulated it in the elixir. So, the next policy that the citizens voted and said that life and the EU were first, and this, you're doing well however you know, I think it's the basis of creation and this future government. Only in this sense can the LDP support this government. He can vote the laws leading to the EU because we are following the will of the citizens, which is expressed on 11 May. That's what the citizens voted for, they made that turn. I'm sorry, national government, what you're saying, it's secondary now, and Europe, life, it's first. People want to have a decent state, to have a boring state, to have a rule of law, to have a judiciary, to no longer live in the past. That's what they voted for, and I think that's the position and that shift that happened, so it's not anymore and it shouldn't be a policy of the '90s. If the parties may not be at that level and those who received those votes, I'm not even sure the DS understands what the citizens voted for, but I understand very well what they voted for in these elections. Therefore, we expect that both this opportunity and all the opportunities that are now coming to show that we have understood this electoral will of citizens and everything that leads to this electoral will of citizens, we will always be there to support that election will of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u125	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u126	Mrs. Pesic, to interpret the policy of the SRS, you obviously didn't get it right. So we never said we were against Serbia's EU membership. We have prepared a bill on ratification of this agreement, so you will see what our idea of joining the EU looks like. The idea of joining the EU with KIM in Serbia has been propagated by all political parties except you. Don't interpret the people's will wrong, because then you would have 126 seats here. What you're saying is that it doesn't matter KIM, it's about life and the EU, it was your ideology. You've been dragged into parliament. There are enough citizens to represent your idea here in the Serbian Parliament. But from other political parties, even minority parties, I haven't heard them speak the way you do today. No one, not the DS, not the SPS, these coalition partners, not the Single Serbia after the elections, has said -- we are going to the European Union regardless of Kosovo and Metohija. You have now said here that it is not at all about Kosovo and Metohija, but that life is important for the European Union as well. So I didn't find that ideology that put this government together. According to that ideology, except for you, we could all be in a coalition and that's what the citizens of Serbia said. They said -- we want to join the European Union, but we want you to watch over Kosovo and Metohija for us. If they had said otherwise, the first yellows would have admitted that they no longer cared about Kosovo and Metohija. They're acting now. Whenever you need to push your back under a car in the mud, you move away from the DS. We'll wait for you at the bill of law to make it clear what your goals are. Mr. Ivica Dacic is a member of the government. Here in this assembly, a few months ago, he said - we will war for Kosovo and Metohija. The people wanted him to be a member of the government and you can't say that Serbian citizens don't care what happens to Kosovo and Metohija if Ivica Dacic is a member of the government. So, this government will war for Kosovo and Metohija, otherwise Ivica Dacic will not enter that government. That's how I interpret honest politics, honest politics. I know that the SPS won't, can't, won't give up, and that exam is waiting for you, and I'd like you to pass that exam, no matter what happens after that with some MPs. I guess we have some other professions, too. Do not interpret the creation of this coalition as the electoral will of the citizens. It is not true that the citizens of Serbia wanted this. I'd rather say that you could have been in the coalition with the yellows, only that it wasn't vanity and impatience among you, because they almost applauded you when you talked about the SPS here. It's their feeling, they just can't say right now. I don't have that SPS dispute, I don't, I wouldn't applaud it, and I wouldn't admit it when you say they were so bad. That's not true. They were only bad when they were good to you, all the rest of the time they were good. Whenever you've praised them, they've been bad and now when you praise them, the question is whether they're good or bad. It is incompatible that the analytical praises of those who are nationally defined are two incompatible currents. So, I would hate to be praised by Mr. Micunovic because he likes Serbia as much as last year's snow, as it does by the clanning snow. So please, when you interpret the ideas of the SRS, ask us, we'll give you the brochures, go to our site, but don't misread them from this pay phone, I don't like to rephrase them, because it's impossible to get into your mental set so you can change your mind from the ideas you've been representing for years and I appreciate it. I appreciate you not changing your ideas at all. Ali. It is not true that you have found an opponent of European integration in the SRS, but you have skeptics who will be opponents of European integration, if Europe really says that Kosovo and Metohija are an independent state. And I suggest you think about your family as well. If something like this happened to you in your family to hurt you as much as when they took your territory on a state level, would you be friends with them, called for coffee or married to him?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u127	I ask MP Miroslav Markevic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u128	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will try to be as brief as possible, the shortest of all the speakers so far, and to say the most. If anyone expects me to mention the SPS and their candidate for president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he is greatly mistaken. They do what is in their interest, as Mr. Ivica Dacic said. There are only political interests, and I thought there were both citizens and their interests. Looking at this order of MPs who are due to speak in the next two hours, I see that from my left, or right, from a large coalition they already call a shortened ZES, and I think that Serbia's citizens will soon see that it is a coalition of "ZEZ", there is no one reported, that we hear what they think of the candidate, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, what DS thinks, what the SDPO thinks, what the G17 thinks. Why don't you come out here and support your candidate? We weren't ashamed of minority support for the SPS and we explained to the citizens why we did it when we were in power. You have been condemning the SPS in the election campaign, and you have received a lot of votes at that SPS condemnation, and now we hear that some tycoons have formed in Senjak, Dedinj, the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking this LDP gentleman, if it wasn't one of those tycoons you asked to form a survey board on his business? Why don't you mention it now? However, some of you who will report right after me did not even vote for the formation of the polling committee, and that was where Mrs. Pesic was concerned about the interest of the citizens, that there was no monopoly in the trade, that the citizens were buying cheaper, and now that same tycoon, it is said, formed a government. They're going to come out now and say they're looking for a survey board. Both March 9th and the Vidovdan Assembly, and the civil protests in 1996, October 5, 2000, the illusions of democracy in Serbia, of democratic changes, are at least gone for me today. I don't agree with Mr Nikolic who says the DS doesn't think like the SPS, but they can't say. They think the same thing, except it took us equals 10-15 years to finally figure it out, and I expect you to finally change your name to the Democratic Party of Socialists. If I'm just telling you that there are 35 Socialists on the local list in Cačka, I'm sorry there's not a single SPS MP from Cačka to confirm that there were 35 Socialists on the DS list, not a socialist from a month or two ago, but from 15 years ago, those original Socialists. So let's not fool ourselves, they're ideologically close, they're so-called. The left in Serbia, all packed in a package called European Serbia. Finally, why I am convinced that this is a coalition against the citizens of Serbia and I have to tell you here, it will hurt a lot, especially the citizens of Serbian nationality. Minor Serbs voted for this coalition. This is where what needs to happen, to do what we didn't want, what various diplomats of different levels have been telling us for years -- give Kosovo and everything will be fine, you'll get both money and credit. So it was offered to me, and to my president, and to New Serbia, and you should explain why President Tadic did not go to the Council of Europe today or tomorrow. To inform you, if you didn't know, former Hague prosecutor Carla del Ponte has launched this topic, where Serbian citizens have disappeared, where Serbs, where they have been cut down, where their organs are, who sold it. Why didn't President Tadic go there? Why didn't he go ask Europe? Is that possible? Are these European values? You say, that's reality. It's not reality, gentlemen, or comrades. The reality will be difficult for you, politically, very quickly, but it doesn't cheer me up. When we were minorityly supported by the SPS, on that wave of DS, which had single-digit support in percentages of Serbian citizens, it reached a double-digit, and we will get to that, and it is nothing controversial and it will be very soon. But I wonder what will happen to Serbia in that time. This is where we talk about the European, socially responsible government. I'd like to ask my fellow pensioners who are sitting here sitting behind me - what are your pensions and what is 10%. We know who do it by five percent, but what does 10% mean? Do you think that those who have an 80,000 pension to raise them eight thousand, and 60 percent of pensioners have eight thousand and 800 dinars? Is that what you think? That's not gonna work, that law. Of course, we will support our oldest citizens, our grandparents, and our parents to increase pensions. Only a thin promise from Boris Tadic, from Boris President Tadic. I didn't expect anything better from you. If he could tell me what he said in the talks in the Serbian presidency, it was not a message to the parliamentary party's functioner, it was a message to the citizens of Serbia -- as long as it went to win power. New Serbia will be a constructive opposition. We will not be against what is good for Serbia. We're just doubting the coalition that Riza Halimi gives most of us, we're doubting that coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u129	I thank Mr Markicevic. Cedomir Jovanovic reported on the replica. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u130	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, since it is obvious that there is no ability here to properly interpret LDP views. So this shouldn't be a debate where one of the parties left behind through hatred is going to express grief for some lost coalition partner. We are here today discussing a proposal that practically leads us to the fact that very quickly in power will be found by a party that has formulated the national policy of this society for the past 20 years or until 2000 and that this return to power must be followed by some political facts. Who affected something like that? In what circumstances do all these coalitions come? All these issues are issues of second-rate importance. If the party is able to give this society what it needs, then the party has the right to be an actor of this change, regardless of whether or not the ambassadors of one or another country, EU or SB have any influence on the business world in this society. The problem is the situation in which we find ourselves in fact that the unpreparedness of the party that comes to power to provide any assurance and assurance that this authority will be carried out in a better way than it has done in the past. It's the only point of serious consideration between LDP and SPS. All other political issues, differences in relation to Kosovo, at the speed of European integration, are priorities, political issues to which answers can be obtained through some discussion, conversation. Because we do not have the deed to the full Kosovo truth, nor are we the policy owners that are exclusively correct in the search for a solution to the Kosovo problem. If there is any rational argument, we will accept it, but continuity with the national policy of the 1990s, there is no quality in that continuity that we insist on. If it is about Europe, then there must be a willingness to accept the values that have made Europe rich, so today it counts on European funds that will start some new investment cycle in Serbia. If it's about social justice, then it can't be banalized by bringing down the idea of a social map to charity that the state will share with its citizens, which the same state previously destroyed. That's the problem with this political moment. The return of the SPS to power must not at the same time mean the provision of subsequent legitimacy to a policy that must be condemned. If the SPS doesn't have the power to do that, then you DS need to explain to us what the SPS is worth. Then you have to guarantee that it's a party who's willing to do what she hasn't done in the past. If you keep your mouth shut, then we actually see this silence as a confirmation of this attitude and then we feel there is no perspective in a political concept where the partnership is built on silence and pushing things under the carpet -- so Serbia will not change. This Serbia can be replaced by the people who live in it, they are who they are. If we're talking about tycoons, they have their names. If we talk about Miroslav Miskovic, then national reconciliation cannot be reconciliation between Boris Tadic, Ivica Dacic or me. Does this mean the reconciliation of those citizens who are considered damaged and robbed and the Delta Company? If someone says it means it, then they have to explain why it is. In every normal society, the business world and how it affects the political flows of the country. Finally, I don't see that the current government has done anything to make these relations public and regulate them. We expect the president of parliament to allow the discussion of legalising the status of the business world in Serbia. It is right for those who condemn politicians who appear in election campaigns only with singers, and when asked the question of the business world, they distance themselves from the business world. If these people pay taxes, if they live in this country, if this country doesn't run any criminal proceedings against them, then they're people who have to be partners in solving this country's problems. What's wrong with Serbian tycoons? The problem with Serbian tycoons obviously follows the fact and the truth that their companies' interests and their personal interests with the ruling coalition so far differ. Well, then it's a topic for those who agreed to that policy -- we're not and we don't agree. So, transparency and the public in every procedure, including the one that follows the formation of this government. Who contributed to affirming values in Serbia deserves respect. If someone did it in the name of forgiveness of sins, then that should be said and we should assess whether or not they can do it. This debate does not lead to the outcome that is important to us, which is to reconsider the role of the SPS and to give full importance to the fact that it is returning to power today. That doesn't make us happy, first of all, because there's no willingness to take a clear stand on your own past. That's why we stand up to such politics and such an idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u131	Please, Mr. Jovanovic, I'm warning you in time. Thank you. I call on MP Vesna Pesic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u132	I feel the need and I really don't know why Mr. Markicevic even mentioned my name, because we were the only party who stood up to the monopolies. And today, it is said that this inflation that we have today came from one part of the internal causes, from the monopoly, and above all from the high prices of foods that impose primarily on our domestic tycoons, and among them, in the first place, Miroslav Miskovic. We've collected as many signatures as we can in a formal way, and in a few days, it means over 30,000, to really discuss that issue in the Assembly, and there was no will, not from us. What you're talking about, we did vote and the man was accidentally held at the door. I explained this to you personally, I personally explained to you Mr Markicevic. But there was no will by the ruling coalition to open the issue of monopoly in Serbia, but really now we need to make a pro-European government, and we have never raised the issue of monopoly and competition in Serbia. I hope, if anything, if "e" remains from Europe in this government, that we will first open the issue of this fundamental interest of citizens, for which I must stress, the only one who opened the issue was LDP. She was protecting the general interest of citizens and she was the first and only to open the monopoly issue in this country. So I really don't know why you mentioned me. Secondly, I'd like to respond to Mr. Nikolic. I did not say that Serbian citizens are not interested in the fate of Kosovo, I just said, given what Mr. Dacic said, that the policy of the 1990s, when the people passed the goal, to create a great Serbian ethnic state, here's the living radicals sitting here, the people will no longer say they will not go to Europe, that they will be the last in their region, that they will have nothing to live on, that they will go into isolation again to resolve the national issue. That's the kind of position she put out the sharpest, and the less radicals, the DSS, and you saw how she went. The people won't sacrifice themselves anymore, but they say -- they're running politics like that -- well, but don't sacrifice all the state interests again, my whole life, the state, they can't. It was a clear message of these elections, and I never said that the people said -- it doesn't matter for Kosovo, but he made the priorities very clear, because we know who said -- first Kosovo, and Europe in some "S" place, and who said -- first Europe, and then this second. Therefore, I think the electoral will is clear. That is the only reason we want to support all European initiatives if there are. First, we need to see if such a government will survive with such trust. Personally, if you ask me, I have a deep suspicion that this is even the case, but while I can, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u133	The word is Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krkobic, I am reporting under Article 104 because Mrs. Vesna Pesic, who used the right to replication, which you did not say, as her basis for reporting, violated the dignity of the National Assembly and MPs, above all, the SRS. We are, thank God, alive and healthy, alive and sound president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and that we are right in our position and in politics, Mrs. Pesic, only speak facts that you or you do not want to know, but I must remind you of them. The first multi-party elections took place on December 9th 1990. In those policy elections, which you say the policy of the past, chaos, darkness, a policy that the SPS, which was then on national grounds, and with Slobodan Milosevic headed, sought to protect every Serb in every Serbian country, gained the trust of two million and three hundred and fifty thousand voters. The SRS, when it went to the elections two years later as a registered political party in December 1992, held 73 of its representatives in these assembly benches. That number just increased. Of course, it wasn't when we were persecuted, arrested, when the president of our party, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, really pointed to the fact that the Western forces, America and above all the West, not because, as some of your contemplators said then, advocated some conspiracy theory, but wanted to take away our country. Later on, you also see the process led against him by the anti-Serbian UN tribunal, that he was absolutely right when he advocated such an idea and when, speaking of the fact that such a policy against Serbia was being forged in the old 1980s, which you know well, and that he was a dissident of that time, indeed, in practice and that he today, as president of Serbia's largest political party, but also a man who is in the right sense of the word of the largest anti-globalist, must protect and defend himself to such a policy that continues to be implemented and that black cloud continues over Serbia. I cannot tell the citizens, as you say - yes, everything will be great and beautiful, we are entering Europe, the new laws, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and to close my eyes in front of the fact that this is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, that the appetites are growing for further deployment of our country, that our northern AP is also at stake, that the Serb people in Montenegro are completely disproved and that Serbs are fighting for their survival in Republika Srpska. We will never give up on such a policy. That we're right about the facts you don't know. You said something, whether out of ignorance or trendy, I don't know, but you said that in this election, Serbian radicals received fewer votes on 11 May. You see you're wrong. That in the number of parliamentary mandates, because of Dont's system and because of such distribution on the basis of the votes of others and the turnout of political parties, but in an absolute number of votes, we increased the number, with a tendency to keep growing. Such a trend will be in Serbia. Of course, those who have given up on this policy and whose other ideas, allegedly leftist-social character, are more important, and who are potent, will be in a difficult situation to hold on to their electoral body. That's how I see it, and I don't think they can use that policy to profile themselves for a long time, to survive and to cross the censorship in future elections. Unlike the SRS, which, above all, will, with its perseverance, but above all, focus on our most important national field and the emphasis on fighting for social justice and against crime and corruption, will indeed have a constant trend of growth in the electoral body. That's for sure. After all, we will have the opportunity, as little as a year from now, to go back to parliamentary elections, since it is impossible for this conglomerate of parties that make the government to survive longer in power, and you will see. Of course, then the situation will be much better for the full national awareness of our people, as it will return to Serbia as the winner of our party's president, Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u135	I ask the People's MP, Mrs. Pop Lazic, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u136	Dear fellow MPs, we thought the time of the totalitarian regime had passed when a multi-party was introduced in Serbia. Since 2000, however, we have again appeared to be one - minded. I will try this in the most complicated way to explain, first of all, to address the political theory and political system of modern European states. In every modern democratic state, a political party with 30% votes is a party that is inevitable in power. If it weren't for political bills and it wasn't for trade since 2000, and this is the fourth government, it would probably be that and the political scene of Serbia would be cleared, the other two or three political parties that would be replaced in power would control each other. Let's say, imagine a situation where you have a government that's made up of two political parties, you have a president of a state that's from a third political party, you have a president of the Assembly who's from the largest and most numerous political parties in parliament. Do we then have real democracy and then have the opportunity to control each other and drag the state forward and protect the interests of all citizens? That would probably be the ideal that makes it harder for those who advocate democracy. But something else is going on here. If you ask the ordinary world what's going on, and most often they approach us and ask what's going on and who's the one who's making the government, then there's all kinds of epithetists, and they say, "It's the half-trons, the subversives, the ones who come down to the foreign lords and the like." We must then remind them who the Serbian government is and who will rule Serbia in the coming period, whose will, the majority that was created in parliament, but how it was created, it will explain those who will account for their voters. Then we remind them of those who burned the Assembly, who burned RTS, who cut other people's children, beat them, beat up the director of RTS, rode the priestess, harassed many others, where the crisis headquarters entered, raided the National Bank. Here, and today's candidate for president of the National Assembly was the subject of such harassment, I don't want to go into detail as far as it could go if it wasn't for the police to save her from all this. Obviously, then, there are no real democracies with us. We go to elections, citizens of Serbia go out senselessly to the elections, believing their will will be verified in such a way as to create the kind of government they want. We promise in a pre-election campaign to the citizens, we'll do it, that, and then the elections end, sum up the results, forget, many of us forget what they promised, turn the turkey upside down, and create such non-civil coalitions and this kind of government that can't last long, because it's primarily unnatural. And that's why he can't achieve any results. So much water goes through Danube and Sava, and we stand in place or even go backwards. Just a few days ago, Zupljanin was arrested, and no one here from this future ruling coalition, which today proposed by the president of the assembly, considered it necessary to make public announcements and condemn it. Isn't that unnatural? It is, of course, but it will also be appreciated by your voters. What's what we all promised in the campaign? That we'll deal with corruption. Of course, where there are two or three political parties strong in the country, where power is being replaced, it is easy and there is, of course, fear of corruption affairs. Where we have a coalition, and we have 17 members in DOS, so we have a little bit less, now there are eight in this new government, there's already one another looking through their fingers, and that's why these governments aren't desirable and they're not good, and the code is necessarily evil, because some others, outside of this country, are solving our fate and our future. I'm just wondering what the next step after the formation of this government was, since the basic stumbling block was precisely whether we wanted to go to Europe or not. Here a lady before me talked about it, and she said we don't want that big Serbia, the people want to go to Europe, they don't care what happens to Kosovo and Metohija. I think she cares about Kosovo and Metohija and the state as much as she cares about the lakota, cockroach, it's a language that's close to her, since, well, we've had such an ambassador, unfortunately, in Mexico, and if such ambassadors have been telling us since 2000, then it's no wonder these things have been happening to us. So what's what's going to happen to us after this government is formed? They will tell us exactly this sentence - as long as you do not establish good relations with neighbours, diplomatic relations between Belgrade and Pristina, we will not be able to discuss EU accession. Remember these words of mine. That's the next condition that's going to be set, and then the question is, what's next? That's what we've just stumbled over in a conversation about forming a new government. Maybe the people will say, "What are you going to do?" He can't shoot with a hornet. You're already doing it through these media outlets, so that the people with their shoulders accept it, but we have an obligation to tell you and warn you, and the public and you here in parliament, and to call it what we think we should, to national treason. Let history judge again. Time will tell. What does the EU promise us? They say you'll get 190 million dollars from IPA, although the experience of other Eastern European countries says that most often these projects aren't adopted, so they don't come. But even if they do, when you translate it into euro, you'll see it's 103 euros per capita. Shall we sell Kosovo and Metohija for a hundred euros? Come on, at least say you here, you 250. Ask every citizen in Serbia if he will give you 100 euros not to sell Kosovo out of your poor pocket. He'll give it to you. There's none of that 190 million. What are we giving them? Eleven billion euros is an external trade deficit, 50% of it is compared to EU countries. Come on, do the math. Five and a half billion euros to them, and they give us 190 million or 103 euros per head. Are we just so much that we can't figure out that simple bill? What is it that makes us do for our own damage? Something seems to be wrong in our genetic code. Either this people have too much patience or we come here and forget ourselves and we don't know where we came from. And we should go back to our neighborhood and look in the face of those who went to the polls and voted with great confidence for us because we told them that if they voted for us, we would do it, that, that. Now let's see, you know, as of today when you choose the President of the Assembly and form a government, the SRS will blow up your neck constantly and when there are sessions, and when there are no sessions, and in the media, and outside the media, and on the juicers, and on the streets and on the boulevards. You won't be able to do what you want. What you're imagining, you won't be able to pull it off. Twenty years for DS and her extramarital children, I mean G17, LDP, Chanka, Wolf, and this other bullument, Milosevic is a butcher, executioner, murderer, war criminal, dictator, psychopath, and his party of forces of darkness, fascists, retrograde forces, mobsters and so forth. The DS authorities have replaced or expelled nearly 50,000 SPS members from work. What has changed with you, Democrats? Did you find any others to harass? You don't want any more SPS members, now you might want some more. Who's going to be on your target now, since that's the only way you can function. The future coalition annuls itself, the SPS and its coalition partners pledged in a campaign to annul mafia privatisations. If they did, and I trusted them, and I really think it was an honest intention. But if they do, they'll cancel out the DS. Then it's a good thing they got into this government. It'll be a historic success of the SPS. I'll remind you of some things the moment the government is formed, so here I am skipping what I've recorded, and what I would like to say anyway, although Chanka can't jump at all, because his threats to the Republic Square have never been withdrawn, and I mean that you should hang out in the surrounding trees, so remember that. Remember that. He never said-- sorry socialists, I was joking, I wasn't thinking about you, I was thinking about someone else and stuff. As for the coalition for Europe's Serbia, what is it they still have to cover up so they can't go into opposition? Can't you see Mr. Tadic is kissing Mr. Dacic's shoes? I congratulate you on that, Mr. Dacic, but I wonder what it is that hurts them so much, they can't go into opposition, what is so terrible, what is it they have to hide, what crime is it? You see Mr. Djelic, who cares, Lassie returns home, little there, little here, comes with nothing, goes with 11 million euros, will be a professor somewhere at some American university, a wide field, a man is a cosmopolitan. Everyone thinks they can escape like that, everybody's looking for a way out, everybody's looking for a little more time, but time's running out. What is certain, which is clear to all of us, that every morning dawns and every day must be darkened, time passes quickly, and behind us something remains either good or bad. I don't want to remind the SPS of what she decided at her last congress, what resolution she made, but I think it was a good resolution. I would like to remind myself of what was said at the last Security Council session, as Serbian President Boris Tadic, mentioning the tragic mistakes of Milosevic again. He simply cannot open his mouth when he goes somewhere outside Serbia without saying -- the former regime and the tragic mistakes of Mr Milosevic. How does the tragic mistakes of Mr Milosevic, whose ideology still exists and which is allegedly carried out by the SPS? Now he bowed down to that ideology, kissed Mr. Dacic's shoes, came the time for such things. As soon as the EU welcomed the entry of the Socialists into the future government and Olli Rehn answered, believe me, I knew there was something wrong. Of course, he doesn't have some credibility with the Serbian people, but the interest of both the Western countries and the Western embassies of what's going on in Serbia tells us, at least the experience tells us, that something stinks. All of this is much broader when the government is on the agenda, but this is also because we never approach the election of the president of the assembly before the parliamentary majority is created to form a government and this may have been a good reason to talk a little bit about it. Then when we are all here we are aware that the president of the assembly should be from the parliamentary group that is the most numerous – and which is the most numerous? The chairman just said that she has the most time and space to go out for this pay phone, which is the SRS. For all I know, 78 is still more than 69.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u137	I thank Mrs. Pop Lazic. I ask MP Zoran Ostojić to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u138	Simply now, if any of the citizens are involved in monitoring the transfer, they will think that the debate on the government has begun, and the election of the president of the assembly is on the agenda. I know, socialist gentlemen, that it is not easy for you to endure and watch this amount of jealousy, because in the speeches of those you have promised, which you have deceived, there are many of those words: fraud, infidelity. But how can I tell you, you and one of them were married, you didn't live together long ago, you promised others, you had fun or you got engaged, but it's a good thing you made this decision, and that's what LDP said at first. She welcomed the DS's intention to build a government that would ratify the Stabilisation and Lead Serbia to Europe, as citizens voted for it. So hold on a little longer because it's the natural consequence of infidelity, jealousy, you know how, it's not easy, there may be some regrets for power, but about that after that. I never thought I'd agree with Mr. Tom Nikolic, but I agree. A few minutes ago, he said that, basically, all of you, not counting LDP, could be in the coalition. That's the way it is. Together you brought the Constitution, you had the same attitudes, the wrong views on Kosovo, but now the Socialists have chosen what they chose and should no longer regret it, but to reconcile with the fact that someone else is going to make a government. But this is where we choose the President of the Assembly. He can be V.D. under the Constitution. The president of the state, in some circumstances no one wants. It is indeed the return of the Socialist Party to power and that is what LDP, essentially, cannot accept beyond some limit. We supported the D.S.'s intention to make that government honest, but then the concessions for which, according to us, there is no room. Mrs Dejanovic-Djukic herself said she would have wanted with those with whom the Socialists once were married and they dated, but it wasn't enough, that it was only 125 for the coalition. If that was only 125, why the Ministry of Police and that symbolic but essential function of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Socialists? It is indeed their return to power. At least they haven't changed in words. Reformed communists in Eastern Europe have returned to power, but always with two processes. These were some new people, who were not in that totalitarian regime in power, and they condemned what was happening and were ready to accept the European values that these countries were building. We don't have new people. All those who run the SPS, including the lady who was proposed for the president of the assembly, were very active in those times most citizens want to forget as soon as possible. Did they say they were judging? Did they say it was wrong, that it wasn't the same SPS? They're not that either. That's why it's a little strange, and it doesn't seem to help me to build the institutions of parliamentary democracy in Serbia that the DS, which has proposed this solution and which is behind this solution, is not able to come out and that, if it is the Socialists who do not want it, they say it's not the Socialists, that it's not the policy, that they deeply believe that they have changed. Well, somehow in the LDP, it would be easier for us then, not so much that we would vote for Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, but it would be better because of citizens who expect this government to really lead Serbia through Europe. We will treat this government with the basis of what the government is doing. We believe deeply that some European jobs together can be done, such as ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We do not believe that any other affairs can be done by this government, such as the completion of co-operation with The Hague, especially with Mr. Dacic as police minister. But what worries us much more is not only European affairs, but European values as well. Unfortunately, these European values with the Socialists, at such high-ranking functions in the government, seem to be not to be done. And finally, how can I tell you gentlemen from the DS, because you are certainly closer to me than your coalition partners, you are entering the coalition. There's one on this side, but not from the LDP, about saying that you're quite different here, so he's excelling in the act of jealousy that you're together. I don't think you're different. Your coalition partners, your Democrats, and there are a dozen of them, all of them in the past have, in some way, collaborated with the SPS, whether they were in a government supported by the Socialists, whether they were directly in the government, even Slobodan Milosevic, eventually on this side and on this side there are equigorians among you, and partisansans, and peoples, and left-wings, as there are on this side, only these dignitaries are now complaining that these eunuchs are in power, these in opposition. But we think you have crossed the line with Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's candidate for parliament. We don't think it was necessary, we gave you support and we said, okay with the Socialists, there's no other way, but they don't mind too much, and they're following a policy that gets citizens' support both in the presidential elections and in parliamentary elections. But not to bother, but eventually they became the main ones in the coalition. I'm sorry that you don't come out to convince us that they're different than we think they are, but it's going to be time to discuss the government after all. Anyway, this is the LDP's position. We'd like it to be different, but it's your decision to propose this personnel solution and we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u139	I ask MP Željko Tomic to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u140	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, many MPs have so far addressed the SPS parliamentary group and specifically their boss, Mr Ivica Dacic, and there are some questions to which our colleagues from the ZES coalition should give answers, and specifically from the DS, but it is simply symptomatic and indicative that they are silent today. When we ask them only one thing -- which is why they will vote for Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, only a deal for the future happy coalition and nothing more. I will remind you, as some have done before, of stealing local elections, using your words, your quotes and paraphrases, when you personified the culprits for stealing local elections in 1996, you mentioned few names, but one name was always in that combination, the name of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. There was this famous Lex specialization, it covered everything, the criminal charges were gone, but if there were, I'm sure, I'm sure there would be a complaint against today's candidate for president of the assembly. But for you, it's not the first time, you've been able to amnesty the one you've been hard on for some time. Remember the case of Mr Branislav Ivković, when you formed that instant pseudo-square party, the Socialist People's Party, which is not even in the trail today, but because of that 126 magic figure, you were ready to start a party for him, only to support you when you rocked the parliamentary majority. He's asking a lot of MPs today if the SPS has changed. You don't need to look for answers far away. First of all, 18 days, 7 June, in Vecernje news, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic gives an interview, where she Decedibly says - we will never give up Milosevic. I think it's clear, there's no distance from some kind of policy earlier, and they never said that. What is it that binds you? From the DS ranks, we hear a sentence that the SPS, all of which will never give up Milosevic, is a kind of natural ally. What's going on, what's going on? Is the eighth session finally over or is it over? After 20 years, is it possible that finally the Red University of Karl Marks, party secretaries, Stambolics, Milosevics, will all return to the same flock, so on Tuesday they will head to Brussels to the Socialist International, and will there, as Ivica Dacic, as he has learned from this place, to comment on the DS that it is the only party in the Socialist International who, in his sign, does not have a red color in his logo. Try not to embarrass the DS within the Socialist International, now that you join there, to change the DS logo, to put a little red in, to be adequate and true members of the Socialist International. You were talking about national reconciliation these days. I'd cross it off about reconciliation on the left, for the reasons I've presented in advance. The only thing left to do is play perhaps a kosara wheel, you have experience in that too. It's the only funny metaphor about a kosher Coke that can turn into a serious metaphor about a chain of coke. All of you are now giving a dinar to get into that circuit, but I'm afraid you're going to give a lot of money to get out of that car, because you're unnaturally composed, you're unnatural allies. But what can I tell you, on Tuesday you will hear and mumble on the famous tune that you are despised in the world and that you are slaves who are starving. Just whether you're starving to food or to power, government and chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u141	I ask Mr. Zoran Krasic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u142	Mr. Krkobiæ, this item of the agenda is not only inspiring, but also desirable, not so much because of the MPs, since it's all been clear to them long ago, but this point is very interesting for the citizens if they follow this transmission, so I am speaking to them a little more and asking them to inform their neighbours, friends, because I hope that some things after this exposure will be put into their co-ordinated system, orientate it in time and space, and therefore conclude where Serbia is and which way it goes in the bright future. We recently had these elections and you see in those elections the citizens have defined themselves exactly as Boris Tadic wanted them to. Boris Tadic divided the political scene of Serbia into anti-European forces at the time. Of course, he put there primarily the SRS, the DSS, the NS, and the Socialist Party and these parties that go with the SPS. He still said they were retrograde forces, dark past and so forth. Citizens have defined themselves, they were a little more scared than they should because of Boris Tadic, because he usually shouts when he talks and calls for help from abroad, so he was headed by the anti-Serbian coalition. Because if it's anti-European on this side, it can only be an anti-Serbian coalition on this side. Of course, the campaign went very badly at first for the anti-Serbian forces, but then a team came to the finish line from abroad to make it a little stronger, to strengthen the threats and to resort to a ruse based on signature. First we had the signature of an Italian firm that doesn't exist, and then we had a sequel to something, and I see Euro-fanatics here creep out when they hear this, a sequel to something that's a series of Dynasty, how to get to Europe. A few years ago it was -- these aren't good, they're breaking up the conversation. I remember when Cedomir Jovanovic was the vice-president of that government, then someone in front of the European community, I mean former governor of Singapore or Hong Kong, said -- how to talk to Serbia, some punk sent me, doesn't know what customs, customs rates, etc. Remember, it was in the paper. I have for each of you a press-clipping so I can show you that. Then it started, like, to approach the negotiations, so first negotiations on one agreement, so when there were elections whether there would be negotiations, there would be negotiations, there would be negotiations, G 17 had been cheated and G 17 entered into the assembly. After that, the next election, whether there will be a continuation, to paralyze the agreement. We had a general celebration for the parade. There goes one who operated on, in the meantime, clamping ears to paraphrase something there, and on the basis of that parade, they tricked the citizens. A month and a half ago, supposed to be signing, and they double-crossed the citizens again. But it doesn't lie to the devil, all these countries in the European Union say -- we ratify it, it doesn't occur to us. Then that Ollie Ren "Oli paprika" he says - what's signed cannot be applied and will never be applied. So, the story of the European perspective, of the European future, is something that even you Euro-fanatics can't catch. You'd keep catching that European perspective, but you can't figure it out. We don't even have this president in Strasbourg tomorrow, because they can't get questions there, and there's probably some awkward questions. A year ago, we had a special session during the constitution of the National Assembly, where we declared ourselves to Kosovo and Metohija. We can't have this time. Why can't we? How did the chairman say in an interview - I don't have that authority, and yet why would I schedule it? To him it is Kosovo's own independence, it is in line with the constitution of Kosovo's independent republic. Let's move on, the campaign started by the SPS going to the grave of Slobodan Milosevic. Now the poor guy's probably turning in his grave when he hears what's going on and whose voices are becoming some kind of official. These are amazing things that happen, but I'm counting on at the end of my exposure to get to what's connective tissue. Of course, I don't think it's about the 8th session and reconciliation. Here's why I don't think that's true. If you look at the coalition made by Boris Tadic, that's where all the blood cells of Zoran Djindjic are. If Zoran Djindjic were alive, he would never have gone to the coalition with Vuk Draskovic, with Nenada Canka, who ran over the board with RTS, he would have never thought of going and not order further. Besides, the Democratic Party is now being run by some people who do not have much to do with Zoran Djindjic. It's one tycoon-mafian part, pull, get as much as you can and finish the job. However, I am very pleased to hear such outpourings of tenderness, which even overcome political tenderness, when it comes to Boris Tadic and his messages sent to the SPS. It's nice to meet you. Why? These are messages from Boris Tadic, who says October 5th is a big mistake, as he likes to say. He said that the big mistake was also on Vidovdan in 2001, when Slobodan Milosevic was kidnapped and transferred. He says there is a huge mistake and arrest of 11-13,000 people and apologizes to the SPS people, because there were some SPS people who were arrested in the "Sablja", though "tupo Sablja". Those are, I must say, very interesting messages. However, I do not see citizens of the Republic of Serbia in these messages. What I'm sure, anyone who voted for the SPS in the previous elections, he voted against Boris Tadic, he even went out to vote that his abstinence would not be opposed to the Democratic elections, and they beat you there, and eventually that vote went to Boris Tadic. So the anti-European bloc received much more votes and won much more mandates and has an obligation to the voters of the Republic of Serbia, and that division was made by Boris Tadic. The anti-European bloc has an obligation to win anti-Serbian because citizens cast votes and these parties are obliged to make a government. One cannot put his political interests, whether personal or party, ahead of the voter's will and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. We're not talking about what's going to happen, how who's going to go through the next election, it doesn't matter. It'll be everyone's responsibility. But here it happened because of something, some connective tissue, it's not the European Union, it's not the European way, because there's nothing out of it, and we all know it, but someone likes to chew, Euro-fanatics, it's these UN fans, and we now have something incompatible, and it stands together. Just to remind you, not a few things were compatible last year, so they lasted 10 months, but Serbia has returned, so some have declared the constitution, some reportedly gained independence. We are silent, the National Assembly is silent. Why? There are severe administrative obstacles to the business nature. Where is Serbia going? Do you have that authority when you enter this congregation? What can we expect from the future National Assembly and the congregation’s congregational majority? Everything and everything. I wouldn't be surprised at the night sessions that strip immunity, because we have experience, there are MPs who came by helicopter overnight to strip off MPs of immunity. Now he's gone, he's out, he's combing his mustache. What else do we have? We have a vote from Bodrum. There's your protagonists. We have absolute disrespect for any regulations in the country. Who's the protagonist of that? First of all, the Democratic Party. To keep them company. What connective tissue? What's connective tissue? What's something that connects incompatible? You see, we basically have Solana's flock now. If Solana had made this, it is much more correct and fairer that Solana has run in this country, even if he would have removed some percentage of the vote to the Euro-Fantatic bloc in Serbia. A block called the Share of Lies. Thanks to someone cheating on voters, getting votes, and now we have a further addition thanks to this fraud, he has obtained the legitimate right to do so to Boris Tadic. You all know, Boris Tadic as president of the Republic, it's a greater shame than four dry years in Serbia. What works from the state? The army, the police, where are the borders, where the Constitution begins, and where does it end? But the European perspective; so catch that European perspective somehow, squeeze it so it doesn't run away, hold it, but you don't have a quorum. Now I could interpret in a different way what happened over the past few days. Some people in the SPS concluded that October 5th was necessary and that Boris Tadic was right, that they concluded that Vidovdan was necessary in 2001 to deliver Milosevic, that arresting 11,000 people was a weak measure, it took 350,000 people to arrest. What makes me think that? The behavior of the election to this day, the behavior in which the will of the citizens is not seen, is not seen by the voter's will. The worst option is when Cedomir Jovanovic gives you support. We're talking about Kosovo, Mrs. Pop-Lazic talked about some figures. Ceda Jovanovic would give it away for free, it's ballast for him. I would personally be ashamed to be supported by Cedomir Jovanovic, with such political views. Where's the connective tissue? Who provided it? Is it possible that it's the connective tissue that makes and connects, is it that super-glue? Let me explain one thing to you. Mr Nikolic was in The Hague to visit Vojislav Seselj, and Mrs Pop-Lazic, Mr Delic and I went to some discussions on some principles, etc. He showed up, Mr. Krkobic, the fifth principle, as you said, which you insisted on. We said in principle to accept, but we said, let's first see about the formulation, so it's not exactly right away, and we said let's look at where to find the funds before the law changes. That's when you said, "No way." That's how it's gonna be. According to what was written in the paper these days, you changed the story at Boris Tadic's. You're not as persistent in representing pensioners as you were supposed to be with us? What happened to you? It's a connective tissue. Is there anyone in this country who can find that super glue that put together that couldn't connect? If someone had cut my kid's hair at school after October 5th, I don't think I'd ever say good day to him in my life. There was some persecution to me, too, but they ran into the scrawny breasts, so they ran away. But this persecution that people have suffered, and that I have saved, and I am proud to save them, and I will save everyone from the power that has been taken from the people. I'm gonna save everyone, no matter who it is, but it shows me that there's something going on in politics, and it's super glue. Just so you know, the glue that makes Javier Solana -- it doesn't hold, that glue destroys everything. Just a reminder, Javier Solana pressed a button to bomb Serbia. So how can you rush to Europe with Javier Solana? Sarena lies about the European path, like, kobajagi, the European path exists with Tadic and does not exist with Nikolic. Let's just lie a little bit more. Where does Boris Tadic go to Europe and the world to hear his word so much, respect and that he can change the course of history? Who sees him as a serious talker? That's what you see in the papers. Even those who work in the presidency building don't treat him like serious. The idols may be treating him seriously, but that might be another topic. Yeah, yeah, that's another topic, and they probably need some medical professions. I'm not authorized to do that, I've learned very little judicial psychiatry, just how long it takes me to figure out the problem. That's Serbia's problem. The problem with Serbia is that the electoral will of Serbian citizens is not respected. He who wanted to vote for Boris Tadic voted and it came down to 67 MPs. By the way, I'm gonna tell him 78's bigger than 67, since he's been jumping for two days how he beat everything. That's the way Serbia is going. Can I be an accomplice to that? I can't, I won't, I won't, I won't, and I'll criticize everyone here. You who make a government know that this side, in this part of 79 SRS MPs, will fiercely criticise you, has a basis for that. I think some have misread their voices. There's no insults, there's no bereaved ones, there's no jealous ones. Laugh, laugh, no jealousy. Why aren't there any jealouss? Because you're laughing at what you said seven or eight years ago about the election will of citizens, that it's sacred, that it should be properly interpreted, that it should be respected. Of course, there is no love, there are political interests. But if politics, as they say, is the art of a possible or essential virtue, a top quality for man to succeed in something, tell me who you have made or who you will make this government, which is what this art of yours is looking at, and what is the object of your art -- again some beauty of Javier Solana. What do you see in success? Just to remind you, we have criticised the two governments here for sharing the ministries with the parties and their own interests. Now it's likely that whoever becomes minister of police will be arrested in the government. How's he gonna get arrested in the government? How do you explain? I don't think a lot of things will be clear to the citizens, and maybe they shouldn't be clear to them, but in any case, they have to take care when they go to the polls for whom they vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u143	I thank Mr. Krasic. I'm asking MP Slobodan Marsh to take his word for it. Here you go, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are choosing the president of the Serbian Parliament, and I really expected that the authorised promoter, namely Mr Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS, will spend much more time explaining why we should support this proposal. Unfortunately, his address came down to three minutes of reading Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's biography. On the contrary, we've heard a lot of reasons why we shouldn't support this lady as a candidate for president, more specifically her election as president of the assembly. On the one hand, grief and pain have come to us because she is not their candidate. The only one who expressed a different position was the president and MPs from the LDP parliamentary club. I think we have guessed the essence, that is, the reasons why we should not support this proposal and should not vote for candidate Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Unfortunately, neither the SPS president nor the Serbian Parliament speaker herself in the past month and a half after the end, or after the elections, have shown a real lack of desire to change. All their story comes down to the story of Europe, and I'm afraid there's only one colourful lie for the simple reason that in the past month and a half it shows us that none of it has anything to do with it. What we tried to say today from the LDP, I hope you will take it well on purpose, both you and the others who supported you by signing. We tried today to give you a chance to give up the policy you represented during the 1990s. Today, we have said on many occasions that we expect you to do so and that we expect those who have suggested you will help you do so. Mr. Dacic, unfortunately he's not in the O.R. right now, just because you're about to become a police minister doesn't mean that one day you won't have to face responsibility again. So none of you are asking you to stop doing politics, none of you are looking for other radical things, but we're asking you to face responsibility for the policy you've been propagating in the 1990s and that's still in your heart today. I will not say what this policy has done to Serbia over the past few years, but I must say what it has done to Vojvodina. In the 1990s, the SPS was absolute in power in Vojvodina itself. What happened in Vojvodina? By bringing the Constitution back in '90. The year of the AP Vojvodina was brought to nonsense. I'll just remind you, I believe you all remember Mr. Radoman Bozovic, what Mr. Radoman Bozovic did with the IV Vojvodina. In fact, he made that institution a appendix in this system. That building was empty, no one was doing anything in that building, and there was no interest in anyone doing anything in the IV Vojvodina. The Vojvodine Health Fund, which was crowded, was transferred to the Republic Fund, entered the bottomless well and, of course, emptied. By law on state property assets since 1996, all assets on the territory of the AP Vojvodina have been transferred from ownership of the AP itself to ownership of the Republic of Serbia. And that's the work, among other things, of the SPS, that is, for the most part. That means neither the carpet nor the writing desk in that Banovina building belongs to the AP Vojvodina. So I'm surprised that some, who come right from Vojvodina, are ready to support the president of the Assembly as a person who doesn't want to face the consequences of its policies. I would very much like you to ask the people of Vojvodina, the mahogany of all places, but let's say from the poorest places, the towns, the Mountains, the titels, what they experienced during the 1990s, or that they became one of the most developed municipalities in Serbia itself. Mrs. Dejanovic, if you are elected president of parliament, you will also be chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the same time. We know what the '90 Constitution was like. For years, how long we've been in the '90s. years and after that fought to make this constitution change. The person we called the new Milosevic brought a new constitution in 2006. I can tell you that we will do everything we can to, together with the citizens, initiate a change in this constitution that is now in force. Many say that the compromise is a reflection of wisdom, but I also know that there is no compromise with life. Because of your life, because of your family's lives, because of the lives of your friends, who are years ago, while the politics that you do not give up ruled this country, we cannot support you. The moment you're ready to face the responsibility and policy you've represented, then we can also support you as a candidate. Until then, not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u145	The word is from MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u146	After a month and a half, how long the negotiations between the SPS and the coalition gathered around the DS take place, we finally realized yesterday and found out that these negotiations had just been completed. Today is the agenda for the election of the president of the National Assembly. I ask the candidate of the SPS not to mind that today I will not deal most with her and her personal attributes that are running for this function, but I will pay a little more attention to the principles on which this new coalition was created. Namely, what I have to notice is that Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic has learned that she will be the president of the media parliament. It is not good because we have previous experiences of some who have led this great home and who have also learned from the media that they will be presidents. It speaks of the seriousness of those who run for office. Of course, I don't doubt she'll be very good at it, but I don't think that's good. On the other hand, I want to ask, as the rest of them, isn't everything that's going on on the Serbian political scene a little weird? It's funny what all of a sudden started bringing them together. They say ideological resemblance. For someone who has been in Serbia all this time and for someone who is now in Serbia, who has previously been active or passive in politics, this argument could be difficult to understand. I think when we talk about the ideological resemblance of DS, apart from membership in the Socialist International, there's not a single feature of the party's left orientation. While she was in power, she implemented a liberal method of governance of the economy, which, with all its ideological features, represents a concept exclusively of right-wing orientation. I can mention another difference between them -- the issue of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. From the moment Slobodan Milosevic was handed over to The Hague tribunal and most of the party's leadership was handed over to The Hague tribunal, the party decided to strongly oppose any form of co-operation with the tribunal. As much as my memory serves, I think that a resolution, which was then binding on the leadership of the SPS, is now binding, which requires the prosecution of all those who had anything to do with the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague. As we know, DS has been working on meeting international commitments for a long time to access this problem in cold rationally and for a long time. On the other hand, we see that the SPS, knowing that it will not co-operate with The Hague, is pushing for Eurointegration, and they know in advance that they cannot be continued unless this condition is met. I simply can't help but mention another point of their dissension or, as some might say, unity. It's a relationship to KIM. It seems to be unique, but it's essentially, if we remind ourselves and recall certain statements, extremely different. At an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, which was held in September 2006, if memory is not cheating on me, then I was an MP, and I think I remember this well, the president, Mr Ivica Dacic, advocated the interruption of diplomatic relations with all the countries that intend to recognise Kosovo's independence. At that time, he openly told us that he would fight for Kosovo with all means, including weapons. I don't share my personal opinion on all this, but I do remind you of everything that was said earlier. The DS position is clear on that. They have been made public for a long time, and no one has asked them yet, that they will not be armed with those who disperse their land. It's funny how it's all gone overnight, how there's nothing left of what was before. Of course, I mean their dispute points. I will not deal with relations within the coalition itself gathered around the DS and gathered around the SPS. I think it would take me a lot of time. On the other hand, I have to say that by analyzing all of these, we're going to call them the points of mergers that came into existence overnight, we can come up with an expression that's been used a lot lately. It's about national reconciliation. I can't help but notice that this expression is extremely often used and that it's extremely frequent in use, and unfortunately in an extremely wrong context, so I'm afraid personally, by further analysis and by using this expression at all, it would come to a concrete sense of its language complete in fact destruction. It doesn't mean at all what context some politicians use it in. In fact, if someone truly advocates national reconciliation, they would not base the campaign on polarising society, intimidated isolation and returned to the '90s, and then the main actors of the period earnestly asked for a hug and earnestly sought as his closest political associate. National reconciliation is not the reconciliation of several parties on the political scene, but rather the finding of a minimum consensus on the most important state and national issues, which, unfortunately, is now completely lost in Serbia. I have to say, in 2006, it existed, but now, unfortunately, some of them are gone. In the end, I can't help but put myself in the position of an ordinary voter and just think about how he's looking at the whole thing right now. I don't think he can, without being asked, whether everything that is happening today in Serbia is exclusively and only in office today as president of the assembly, and in what day is the prime minister's office, or ministerial posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u147	Thank you. I ask Ambassador Ivan Andric to take his word. You have six minutes and something.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u148	Thank you, that's enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, is the subject of selecting the President of the Assembly. Unfortunately, no political argument, only a mild explanation in the light of the short reading of the biography by the president of the SPS. I suppose for all MPs of the Serbian Parliament, for us from the LDP, it certainly is, above all, a political issue, rather than a personal one. That is why, unfortunately, we can conclude that we have heard no argument, and we need several political arguments, if these MPs are already asked to support the new president of the Assembly. First, this issue is important to us because it represents at the very beginning of the first representative of the new ruling majority. It is the first public representative, which is also a symbol of what the new ruling majority will be. As another important thing, the political position of Parliament's president is being won by a party that has not received the largest number of votes. What are the political arguments of those who received the largest number of votes to leave the place to a smaller partner. Unfortunately, Mr. Todorovic, you did not get the largest number of votes, fortunately, so to speak. We particularly care about why you are asking for the support of the Serbian Parliament to leave this place, which is very important. However, the fact that we have no arguments for this speaker here does not mean that these arguments are not in our society. We'll look back only on two today. One thing is that the SPS has changed and the other is so-called. a national reconciliation, which was also referred to by the previous MP. That they've changed, they haven't. That's what they said themselves, and that's not what we should talk about. But let's stick to something that is especially important for our society, which is why everyone agrees here, which is national reconciliation. From the angle of LDP to national reconciliation cannot be reached in two days, with talks between the two party presidents and the distribution of ministries in the government. National reconciliation is a much deeper matter. If that's possible, if we're wrong, if that's the right way, what can't be avoided, which is that national reconciliation comes about things that were caused by national division. If that national reconciliation has already taken place, the ruling majority is obliged to explain to us the views that have taken place on the topics that this society has shared. I will take the liberty of mentioning only some of those topics that we are interested in the political attitude of the new majority. These topics aren't all, but they're the ones we have time to list now. What is the politically ruling majority's position on the murder of Slavko Curuvija, about the murder of Ivan Stambolic, about the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic, about 40,000 arrested Retors in 2000, around Srebrenica, about stealing the 1996-2000 election, about hyperinflation? National reconciliation can only be achieved if the cause of this division is looked at, if the truth is accepted, and if political responsibility is assumed, but also criminal responsibility. If the guilty are punished, if the guilty are clearly convicted. It didn't happen here. So, at least from the LDP, don't ask for support for this. To conclude, this issue of national reconciliation, even though it may be just one argument, is also an important issue in the election process of Parliament president. One of the most important steps towards national reconciliation is the adoption of the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, so-called The lustration law. The law was passed in this assembly in 2003. Since then, many authorities have changed. You can't talk about rematch anymore. As members of the LDP, as representatives of the people who vote for LDP, we absolutely insist and now to answer whether the new speaker of parliament will respect the law, whether, unlike three or four former presidents of the Assembly, the law will implement and whether he will propose members of the lustration commission. It's a subject and it's one of the basic steps to bring national reconciliation. For the end, I'll just say one thing. I ask this question as a People's MP, but also as a member of a political party that has more people's representatives in this House than a party proposing a new president of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u149	I ask Ambassador Dragan Shormaz to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as we came into this situation today and especially yesterday, everything that happened, Serbia is – it is excellent, the chairman, while a colleague is speaking on a mobile phone, sitting in front of the speaker, you are not responding, and you are obliged to do so, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u151	Please, colleagues, have some attention to listen to the MP, be kind, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u152	Let him talk, never mind. We have come into a situation by negotiating for two days with the ZES and the SPS, officially, as they say, and as quickly as that is, of course, a piece of cake, our people say. Our people have smart proverbs and should listen to them, unless something else has happened, maybe since the presidential election, and unless it was negotiated, as I said yesterday, by some glass halls, restaurants, bars, holes, sheds, and who knows where, and all this was being prepared. We are preparing the SPS General Board for such a decision, individually each member, done by various ambassadors, various businessmen, I don't like the term - tycoons, but the fact is that it was talked about and it was written, and now we see that it seems and happened, one shamelessly, out of the public's eyes, negotiating, negotiating. Even in these two days as an official settlement, nothing has been said to the public again, except that they have agreed, agreed. There's no program, no principles. We see, there are human resources, and that's what we're talking about, among other things, we've heard that, at least that's what the media say, I don't know, we'll see when the prime minister is proposed, so the government's composition, that the SPS will also have the police department in the whole government. We heard here and that the point of merger, someone was talking about connective tissue, but let's say the EU and the road to the EU, the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is also the point of joining these parties. I have to say the following things. First, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is a dead letter on paper. That's a fact. He can't apply. No parliament of EU member states has yet to ratify it. I don't know how many times it takes for the Dutch Foreign Minister to say he won't be ratified in the Dutch parliament, and until he's ratified by all 27 plus our parliament, he can't be applied and there's nothing about the story, about European integration. It's clear to me, because it was DS propaganda, a trick for voters in these elections, that voters and citizens of Serbia will see soon. It knows what the smallest condition is, and is said by more than one EU official, it is the end of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, i.e. Hadzic, Mladic, and Karadzic, although there is no evidence that Karadzic has ever been in Serbia's territory since he was being chased, but that name is mentioned these days as an obligation for Serbia to be found in The Hague. I am interested in whether this means that the SPS, holding the police ministry, will arrest Hadzic, Mladic, Karadzic, seek, chase, arrest and deliver to The Hague. A little over a month ago, on May 22nd, Mr. Ivica Dacic said - we are against extradition, but I support it if someone wants to leave voluntarily. It was also the three years that were supported by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. So they haven't changed their attitude, because they're constantly asking whether they've changed their minds, whether they've changed their attitude, what kind of relationship they're going to have with that issue, for example. I can ask a few questions and future coalition partners of the SPS, including the SPS itself. Do they remember the day Slobodan Milosevic died in The Hague. Many then said that Slobodan Milosevic was killed in The Hague tribunal, right from the SPS ranks. How many times has it been shown on TV B92, as Mr. Dacic and Mr. Michael are standing in '25. May's where he was exposed to the Ark of Slobodan Milosevic, so that the SPS members could visit him because, as I recall, the general hysteria made in the media, above all by future coalition partners, the SPS must not be allowed, the attack on the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the attack on Dejan Mihajlov for this and how it should not be possible. On that day, future coalition partners, I don't think they're ashamed of it, I don't see any reason why they would, as they did all the time, organize a hepening in downtown Belgrade. They played music, sang, played, played balloons, Mica Albianić was there, watched on TV, blew balloons, let balloons in the air, DS members, DS officials. Did Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic shed a tear for Slobodan Milosevic that day? Two years later, the government is pretending to be with those who were looking forward to that day. What else is there to say? Word is, has there been a change in the SPS? I visited several premises of the SPS municipal committees in Serbia, negotiating the formation of local coalitions, I was familiar with some fellow SPS MPs, I was also in Vranj, and in Palanca, with me in Smederevo, I did not see a photograph of Ivica Dacic anywhere. Everywhere, and day-to-day, you would, pictures, tapestries by Slobodan Milosevic. I haven't seen any Dacic edges. So much for clearing up with the past. Again, on the other hand, Nenad Canak and his MPs will vote for Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, when Canak said that Milosevic should be hanged on a candelabra. I was in front of the stage when he said that. SPO MPs, when it was an assassination attempt on Vuk Draskovic in Budva, I think you followed it better, as much as my memory serves, it seems to me that Mr. Ivica Dacic was afterwards holding a press conference and said at that conference that he did not know for what reason, but that he was convinced that Vuk Draskovic himself shot himself in the ear in Budva. I don't get into it, they can look at the footage and see what the reasons are, as it's explained. Several questions have been asked by LDP MPs, whether this is the new SPS, which is what it is, so they can support. I see that it is important for them to say, perhaps because of July 14th, because perhaps the LDP should support the creation of the city power of the SPS and DS, if that happens, if the coalition agreement that was made with us and with the SRS is violated. You can't do it without Chad, so maybe that's why these questions are being asked, but there's nothing unclear to me. Mr. Bucky Angelkovic said yesterday, on B 92 television, that the SPS has not changed at all, but that the DS has changed. So that's what he said yesterday. Today, Mr. Dacic said that the SPS, arguing with radicals, was ten years of power, not radicals. In other words, they're a personification of the '90s. Who among us, when we talk about that October 5th and before October 5th, fought – young sir, in that period I was arrested 17 times, I don't know how old you were – who of us then fought against radicals? We haven't seen them fleaing in the ectar. We fought against the regime of Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. If it's a personification in the '90s, I guess it's an SPS. You won the presidential election, and part of the parliamentary election went well, in the hysteria that you made someone want Serbia back in the '90s. Now you're ready, just a few days later, that with those who are the personification of the 1990s, you're building power. Something still doesn't seem clear to the LDP MPs. I'll remind them of a few more things. On December 26th, we adopted the last Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which, unfortunately, we managed to adopt in the previous assembly of parliament after that, although the declaration of independence was unilaterally by the Albanian national minority, etc. At that time, Mr. Ivica Dacic said, criticising first of all Tadic and Kostunica for the positions they expressed -- no one has the right to say that they will not fight for Kosovo again. It's a quote, you can check in the stenograms, that was December 26th, six months ago. Mr Ivica Dacic called on the Republika Srpska Assembly on 16 February to declare independence if the Albanian national minority in its assembly declares the independence of the Kosovo state. A day later, he said that if KFOR cannot or will not protect Serbs, it should be done by the military and police of the Republic of Serbia. It was all practical a few days ago. Afterwards, someone says they have not been deceived by Serbian citizens. Of course they've been cheated. You tricked them with the SAA, which is a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, but it is a fact and such a relationship has the EU towards us. I really think that we deserve better and more, and I think that we are more ready as a country than Bulgaria and Romania, to become an EU member, but unfortunately, this is the EU's way of dealing with us. It is not Serbia's disputed attitude towards the EU, but the EU's attitude towards Serbia. What's the point? That's what someone here mentions some grief, regretting power and so forth. As far as the DSS is concerned, we may also be in a better opposition position and working against such a government, we will return the old rating and finish the job with the government's downfall very quickly. But it's no good for the state, and that's why we're going to fight, because what's the ultimate goal. The U.S. ambassadors and English ambassadors wouldn't participate in anything. The ultimate goal is to make a government in Serbia that will not deal with Kosovo, because the assessment of the State Department, Brussels and NATO Pact, I listened to them with my ears ten days ago in Berlin, that it takes the Albanians in Kosovo, with the help of the Eulex and NATO pact, five years to revive the state on every square centimetre of that territory, whether Serbs are loyal or not to live there. They need five years, and during that time a government in Serbia, which will focus attention on other topics, on some frozen SAAs, on some frozen European integrations, on doing something other than Kosovo, because while Serbia is dealing with Kosovo, then the public in the world must also deal with Kosovo, then Russia, and China and other our friends can deal with Kosovo. If we stop, Kosovo stops being a topic, there is no reason for Russia to deal with Kosovo anymore, there are other issues, and Kosovo becomes an independent state. Unfortunately, that's the goal. But we will not allow it to fight for independence, for Serbia's salvation, for Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty will continue, regardless of what the government will form in Washington's will. In the end, I'll just say one more thing. As we come into this world, so do we. It doesn't matter which religion we belong to. We come with nothing and God to the truth we go with nothing. It doesn't matter what we gain for life, but how we, comrades and friends of the Socialists, appreciate it when we go to God for the truth in which something is acquired.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u153	Mr. Dacic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your quotes. I didn't know you were following my statements so closely. I suppose the service records it well, but in any case, I have no reason not to stand behind what I've been saying, unlike many, and I have no reason here to deny it now, nor to confirm what I've been saying. I'd just like to remind Mr. Shormaz, this may be a government made by someone in Washington, but the first government made from Washington was after October 5, 2000. You came to power with the help of the same Solana you're attacking today. There's no reason to treat us like that. At least you know very well that the SPS, along with the SRS, was hit back in 2000, precisely by the ones you're talking about right now. As far as we're concerned, we have no reason to change our policies towards KIM, nor will we change it. Don't attack us as far as KIM is concerned, at least we were the ones who tried and the weapons to defend KIM, unlike you who didn't even move it now that KIM's independence was declared. On the other hand, since you mentioned Slobodan Milosevic and balloons. It is true, and that man who was there was Mr. Albianic. You also mentioned Vuk Draskovic. It is true, and Vuk Draskovic. But just to remind you, they were in your government back then. Because you insisted that we overcome these political reasons, the government survived, otherwise it would fall. Just for the record. It's not good if you think in politics that when you can be with someone, and when someone else can do with a coalition, there's something wrong with them. Please, coalitions, as you know, we've made them with multiple political parties several times in the last 18 years. Whether they were good or not, they'll judge the people in the election. You take care of your voters, not ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u155	Mr. Shormaz has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u156	To be clear, you spoke more than once then, for three years you said that you supported Vojislav Kostunica, not that government, and that you had an agreement with Vojislav Kostunica. If it were Wolf, Labus, and Dinkic, you would never support her. It would be good for you to say what you said in the future, when you have not forgotten any of those sentences you have spoken in the previous period. Now, you said you'd negotiate with Vojislav Kostunica first, and then you'd see if you were making a deal or not. Let go of that story, I'm glad you confirmed everything I said and I'm glad I didn't say a single quote wrong. I wasn't talking to you, I was talking to those MPs who questioned whether the SPS had changed or not. And I'm glad you're all the arguments I've made and I'm asking you to stop talking about who did what for Kosovo and who when and what he fought for. I was and fought when the NATO Pact attacked Kosovo, even though you ruled the state, although I was against your regime, and during that time you sat in Belgrade and gave political speeches and pamphlets, you kept talking about it. Don't lecture me about it, find someone who sat in Belgrade, protected like you, and at that time had a relationship with the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u157	The word has an MP, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what is happening today may best reflect this order of MPs who have applied to discuss. If you look, there are 28 names on the list, and there is not a single MP, since you know how it goes, yes and against, which is in favour of the election of the new president of the assembly. I can understand these from the yellow company, they're still bitter, they can't get through their mouths, but I don't understand, above all, the SPS and any other MPs who haven't found fit to come out and say at least a few protocol words to elect a new president of the assembly. I remember, it never happened, even when we chose Mr. Dulic, at least a few came out, although it was difficult, but there was a way to say a few sentences in favour of Mr. Dulic's election as president of the assembly. What's this saying? Obviously something is happening that is difficult for you, who have made or tried to make this majority, and you can make it public for a pay phone, because it's an indisputable fact, it's about your voters. It is perfectly legal, all those who have received the trust of Serbian citizens in the Serbian Parliament can make attempts to reach a majority that would allow them first of all to establish the Assembly, elect a president, vice president and other parts related to the assembly, and then elect a government. Is it even legitimate? For what? It's very simple, because of your politics, your ideology, what you've stood for in the past, because this kind of salto death in politics isn't very common and it's hard to explain it to your voters. Normally, there won't be an opportunity in a month or two, but maybe in three or four months, you're just facing difficulties, you might have to check with your voters, Serbian citizens, how they evaluate what's happening today in the Serbian Parliament. And among other things, you know that, and we know that there are pretty big fractures in some parties, and you know how your main committees have been in both parties, and that says that you have basic problems. I know that some of the specimens are extremely happy when they can be heard, so they learned how to do it, sometimes they had to do it with four extremities, now they know with two and they're very happy to show it to the citizens of Serbia. He'll show us. Come on, take a shower. However, I would like first of all to remind the citizens of Serbia of this current situation, that is, this coalition that was entered by DS or the yellow company. This isn't in the pervasive sense of a yellow company. That DS is a yellow company I have inconclusive evidence. Among other things, you remember in the pre-election campaign, and for these parliamentary elections, and for elections for the President of the Republic, in which all the way DS abuses its position and how it deceives and steals elections. You remember those powerful packages they shared with Serbian citizens and with whom they thought they would eventually improve their election results. There is a number of indisputable evidence as to how dirty DS was trying to win some votes from Serbian citizens. I have here an emissary that reads on the District Committee of the DS for Vojvodina. We have asked all these questions to the relevant institutions and we expect that, in accordance with the law, we will get all the answers. Is there a vet here, Krassic? I think someone should be helped. The kitchen is 1,500 kilograms, flour T-500 kilograms, rice "Orient", Egypt 1,500 kilograms, edible oil 1,500 litres, sugar crystal 1,500 kg, dish detergent 1,500 pieces, soap "Ten-san", honey and milk, 120 grams, Henkel, pieces 1,500, bags pvc 1,500. Those are those blue bags that these yellow companies packed in. It is dated 17 May 2008. Sent off on May 10th, due date of 17th. The value of these 1,500 packages alone is almost 680,000 dinars. One of these packages is worth about five euros. What we could get data is about a million euros, which DS spent on only these packages. I'll show you the pictures. Don't get excited. Two speedboats who went to Nis with 8,000 packages, since we were able to catch them very simply, to call the police, to pick up those papers, then the DS said it was humanitarian aid sent to the Nisco County's distrophysists. Let's check out how many distrophysics there are in Nis and Nis County, 180 distrophysists at all. See how the dirty resources are used by DS, and there are about 500 fixed faces in the entire Niško district. They didn't just send it to the Phinehas County. They sent them everywhere. Interestingly, they sent 3,026 packages to Užička County. That's where the order to send the package signed up for professor. Vitomir Mihajlovic and stressed that this aid, which is sent to the Užička District, is addressed to the Roma, to show Roma that society takes care of them, takes care of them, etc. You know what's interesting here? In Koserić, 130 arrived, in Chatin 100, and there is not a single Roma there. And that's what shows all the ways you abuse every opportunity to deceive Serbian citizens. The question now arises of the motives of those who with a "yellow company" enter any coalition. The Sabbath is even more interesting about it. That's where we managed to get a good shot of it, so you can see it. Watch the warehouse (shows photos) no lies, no fraud, these are blue packages, goods that are slowly... Activists. You will recognize them, these are DS activists who are packing these packages. Yes, it is, look, these are voices and the way DS came up with those voices. Look, everything's nice and neat. Now you're gonna see, it's no problem, you're gonna see the package packed, they're getting into the truck. (Gojko Radic, from the scene: Does Santa have a cold? ) Santa's got Boris Tadic in his face, but instead of the shub you'll have to put that hat on him with those three legs because you'll get into a situation... You may recognize these from the Whisper. There are people on the truck, very nice, no problem at all. Here, look, here you see, all one company transports, "Intercop" from Capca (shows photos). I don't want to be maligned and associate it with Dusan Petrovic, I don't think so, absolutely not. But you still have to admit that it's interesting that this transport company, whenever the packages are involved, appears. Some evil languages say all kinds of things. I don't want to get into that. I don't have any objective data. Anyway, this data is for thinking. It's one part of the picture of DS and there's no dilemma about it, that man simply realizes that it's about what we know more or less, really about the company, which was created to win power -- when you win power, you know what they're like. There's only a little bit left for Serbia to sell. When they're done, they'll probably pick up the pinkles and leave. Because they have no alternatives -- they have either the government or the Central Prison, they have nothing else to expect, it's quite clear. I'm not asking this question to the Democratic Party, I'm asking the question to those who are entering the coalition with the DS. But maybe I'll help some quotes to make it easier for them to figure out who they're going into the coalition with. You remember on February 1st, if you don't remember, that's when Boris Tadic said, so I think he needs that hat, he said - the Democratic Party in the government won't participate with the SPS, because it's a party in the 1990s, or a party with which DS will never participate in the government, and he says, "The announcement of the formation of the coalition represents a return to the period before the October changes in 2000." Now I ask the question: what years are you going back to? You may be back in 1993, when Djindjic was forming a coalition, he tried with Slobodan Milosevic. There's no dilemma. The problem is that for all eight years, every moment you've ever seen, you've looked to condemn the SPS as the most responsible party for everything that's been happening to us from 90 to 2000. He says, "The attack by Boris Tadic was neither spared nor was the leader of the Unique Serbia, Dragan Markovic-Palma, who was constantly insulted by DS President through his party colleagues, senior DS officials, Dragoljub Micunovic and Dragan Sutanovac, who in 2006 accused him of... I have a slight feeling you don't want to hear it. [[elevator in the O.R.]] It wouldn't be bad to see how consistent you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u159	Give us some silence to hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u160	I don't mind. There's no problem. At that time, you accused the DSS that, establishing a coalition with Palma's party, Kostunica had become a continuation of Arkan's policy and that this could be an obstacle to the post-election coalition. If the DSS pulls Palm on the rope, I don't know how they dragged Palm, it's really interesting, what kind of way to talk about the president of one party in this way -- I think we're going to have a hard time, because what it's going to look like if we have to turn a joint government where Palma would be. If we can't go with the SRS, why can't we go with Palm, who belonged to a party that was even stronger and more suspicious than they were radicals? That's what Mr. Micunovic said back then, still president of this political council of yours. Now some things have changed when it comes to Unique Serbia. Now in Jagodina, we have Aqua Park, so we have a zoo, and that's probably why you and Mr. Palm can do it now. I will not question Unity Serbia and Dragan Markovic at all. I'm just asking you a question - do you have any boundaries? Is there anything in any way that prevents you from having at least one principle, other than that -- power, power, power at all costs? There's one thing that comes sooner or later. One day you'll have to account for all this, because what you're doing on the political scene of Serbia can't go anywhere, neither can Serbia. I'm sure you and we will go to the elections very quickly, and the citizens of Serbia will say their word. Let me tell you that you will no longer be able to cheat on Serbian citizens with these packages. You'll have to go to elections like all the other political parties. You won't be able to steal elections like this, and we'll do everything we can to get all the data. The first to match Bojan Pajtic, because he is responsible for this part related to Vojvodina, and then all those who participated from the DS throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u161	I ask MP Dragan Jovanovic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the central part of the forest, from Topola. When I came to this session, I had to tell you that I came with a lot of shared feelings. I knew from the press that the candidate for president of this high house would be Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, our neighbour from Kragujevac, from Šumadija. On the one hand, this division was, although in the past part of the day and yesterday, we absorbed how we were invited to this session by SMS. Even so, when the government is elected, they may invite us through the scribes' pigeons. But aside from that, I was glad to admit that someone from the Woodland is headed by this high house. On the one hand, I was pleased to say, although I belong to a political option that will not support this choice, reading a very rich business biography by Dr Djukic-Dejanovic. On the other hand, what we must stress is that it is a political biography and something that fell into my eyes, which is that Mrs Dejanovic is the longtime president of the SPS Forest District Committee. Why does this matter? We must go back a little bit to the beginning of the 1990s, when there were about 200 SPS MPs in this assembly and the first multi-party elections were held in Serbia. At that time, only six municipalities in Serbia, among them in two forest municipalities, in Topoli and in Raca, were defeated by the united opposition to Serbia, the SP, DS and the People's Peasants' Party. Ladies and gentlemen, after that, first of all on my left, from this so-called. The ZES coalition, there has been such persecution and such sanctions, and towards the citizens, and according to these municipalities, that I must confess to you that at least these two municipalities in Šumadia have not been able to recover to this day. I can tell you about the arrests, the persecutions, to where, unfortunately, one of the first SPO presidents in Topoli lost his life. I can tell you later about the Together Coalition protests on October 5th, when a large number of members, primarily NS, DS and Resistance, were arrested before October 5th. Then I must return to Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, who, I must admit, had personal courage at that time, and that is, when a crowd was led, first of all, by DS members, came in front of the KBC, in which Mrs. Djukic was the director, she said one sentence which I remember day and day, and I heard her repeatedly on the local media in Kragujevac, which is: "You have not set me up in this place and you will not even replace me." I say, on the other hand, I must give Mrs. Djukic a confession of courage. Once again, I will underline that the DSS and NS coalition will not support Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic's election in this place, but in any case, since the majority of her choice is provided, I want her to do all the best and I hope that she, as her predecessors, will not, as soon as she is elected to this place, move to Belgrade, but will think about the interests of Šumadija, that we will work together and that the doors of her office or cabinet will be opened for us. In any case, I would like to underline that what is stated in the biography is impressive, but what is in the political biography, we cannot forget it and therefore we must keep reminding, not the MPs sitting in front of this coalition, but above all the citizens who voted for the ZES coalition in Shumadi, and they did not have any idea that it would vote that Ms. Djukic-Dejanovic would be president of the Assembly in front of that coalition, or vice versa, and that the same party would act as government and ruling most of the DS. But we'll see how long it takes. I mean, not long.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u163	I ask MP Natasu Jovanovic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krkobic, after the first multilateral elections, held on 9 December 1990, when the SPS won 194 parliamentary mandates, i.e. 2,350,000 votes, the principle was respected, as in all democratic countries, although we were then a country that, after the rule of the one-party system, moved to a multi-party, was sitting, as the first multi-party president, Mr. Slobodan Unkovic. When we return to that period, which many of you remember, we can say that it was a democratically expressed will of the citizens. We went to the first multiparty election, and that's how the citizens assessed it. However, we Serbian radicals, the then Serbian Chetnic movement, couldn't, and later we did it as the SRS, to participate in the National Assembly, but in 92, when we went to the general elections, we got, as I said today in one replica, 73 mandates. I can understand that as someone who, like all other Serbian radicals and all people who care about democracy and democratic postulates, advocates that the principle divides authorities, from legislative to executive, goes that way. It is particularly important that in parliament whoever holds the presidency be of the largest political party. So it would now be quite logical to respect what is practice in all Western countries, in the European Union, in which you want to go, that the President of Parliament, regardless of which, as a supervisor and as a control function of executive power, comes from the largest political party, or from the SRS. In its 18-year democratic recent history, Serbia had only five days of its light-headed parliamentary history, now I can say more recent history, when the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in respect of the principle, was Mr Tomislav Nikolic. That I do not return to May last year, to everything that happened in this building and in the building in Nikola Pasic Square, but I have to remind you of some facts that will tell you that, not because he is only a candidate from the SPS – and I really have no intention, Mrs Slavica Đukić-Dejanović, I have known her for more than 15 years, she is my fellow citizen, I have never, in any political or personal contact with her, and I have no intention of talking about her personally – but I am talking about the principle and the fact that now the SPS, unlike the 90th year, has only 11 MPs. Of course it would be really abnormal then, it would be totally unacceptable for every member of the SPS at that point, if someone else, say from the SPI or DS, had 25-26 parliamentary mandates together, was in the position of the National Assembly president. Here is now the question of the role that Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic will have and what she takes on as a party representative with 11 parliamentary mandates. In the Constitution of Mitrovica, which we adopted and declared almost two years ago, a chapter that regulates the division of power and responsibility and the role of the National Assembly has 13 members. Indeed, Mr Nikolic, as well as someone who was impressed with Serbian parliamentism and who was the speaker of the assembly, sought to put great attention and role on the work of the National Assembly in the Constitutional Commission. For what? Because we are the only ones here, and we are the only ones who own to pass laws, to start the initiatives that citizens are asking us to do, to control the executive power, to do everything that citizens do with their own free will in the elections. The question now arises how will all this be brought forward, as a representative of the SPS in a force-building manner, counterpart Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Will she have support from her current, or future coalition partners now? I don't think that coalition can last long. Whether Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as a woman who is a few days ago and alone cannot agree, will say that as far as she seems, and she is an expert in the field she deals with, all 250 MPs have a stable mental state. I really couldn't say that at any time. I've survived a lot here, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in this period when you were not a national MP, that colleagues we say and from that, have all such a situation, and many of them are now sitting in benches and your coalition partners, tonight will vote for you, call the police, scrutinize the MPs, order the police to beat us, to take away the opportunity to talk about everything that you originally advocate as a political party. If I now return to this period of action back only a year, to look at all amendments, let's say, colleagues of Milisav Petronivic to the Family Support Act with children, the Labour Act, the Company Act, everything that is social, programming requirements of the SPS, PUPS or JS, there is no difference. These are the same amendments as our SPS colleagues. Do you think, this is what Mr Tomislav Nikolic was talking about today, that they will change and that they will now, by emergency procedure, speak of you, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to submit amendments and supplement the law. Look what happened two years ago. When we succeeded in this congregational majority that happened at one point, we changed the provisions of the restrictive Labour Act, which was adopted by that famous Novakovic card, which he voted from Thessaloniki, to the benefit of the workers, to give them back one part of the regression, the supplement for their overtime, for their vacation, etc., after five days Minister Slobodan Lalović appeared and annihilated what the assembly majority, which was made up of both the SRS and the SPS, did at one point. That's what all of you socialists are gonna be looking for. If you now have this coalition, don't think of us both in Shumadia and in yours and in my Kragujevac that there's been a reconciliation of voters. You will do this as a woman who will sit on a very responsible state office to promote you constantly. I see you've started doing that as a candidate in interviews. That's not enough, because voters in our villages, in our city, and especially those abandoned workers without a job, can't understand, and they know that it just won't happen, that these powers of insanity and chaos, depicted in the DS, who called you retrograde forces of darkness and the past, are now going to meet you and the demands you have as a party and to help both workers, and peasants, and pensioners, and unemployed. It just won't happen. They don't think that way. They don't care about the social threat of citizens. After all, we know that as MPs and as the people we have asked of them and raised all these questions here and here in Parliament and in the assembly committees. Now I could rightly expect from my colleague Ivica Dacic, and here we are six or seven years in the Defence and Security Committee, he will now be the police minister, to immediately follow Mr. Dragan Todorovic's lead, and to bring these culprits and those who did these machinations with the tow truckers and with this robbery, and with the abduction from citizens' pockets, to bring justice, i.e. the police to do their job. So, that the tycoons, the ones who bought enterprises in debauchery, and now they don't respect the social programme, and all the questions together and we and the socialists started on the assembly committees, and again, I repeat, exclusively Serbian radicals and socialists, to call them to justice and to tell them that they have to answer for all their unholy actions. It is simply, counterpart Djukic-Dejanovic, that you will witness it, will not happen. You as a woman who will have a truly institutional role in the state-run distribution of power, as the Constitution of our country says, all of you, and I don't believe that you, unless you go that way, as Mr Nikolic told you to give it up. I don't believe, knowing you for so many years, you can't help but fight as a SPS for those rights of all of these listed today's most endangered categories. Look at how your health colleagues live and see who's been running health care for us for eight years. It would not surprise me, even a man who would set a record in how many times he was elected minister and to be Tomica Milosavljevic. He's the head of the health mafia. You don't have a colleague in Kragujevac who's not from G17 who won't tell you or doesn't support these from the yellow company. Everyone felt it on their skin. You have here in our parliamentary group of your fellow professors, and Professor Dr Milet Poscuric, and Professor Dr Milan Knezevic. Since the 5th of October in Kragujevac, at the Clinical Center, have you been in the hysteria of DS and all those who supported it in such a way been expelled from the Clinical Center? Is their work valued and respected? No, I don't. Do they themselves have to fight for their scientific projects and promote what they've been doing with you all these years when you were the director of the Clinical Center? I can't believe that now they're going to change and that awareness of what's important to the nation and the people is going to be different with people who are all these years old, when we had to fight, firstly, for every inch of our country, and secondly, to defend ourselves against those who attacked us and who killed so many thousands, unfortunately, of our citizens, who leveled the Kraguing flag with 16 destructive missiles and raised it from the ashes. Both you and Mr. Obren Cetkovic, then head of the district, and above all Mr. Nikolic as Deputy Prime Minister. That we can now believe the story that these people and because of the strength of your personal authority, which is not identical with the power of your party at this time, will believe and do all that you have expected so many years. So it's a big con voter. The voters cannot understand that such an unnatural coalition has occurred and that, for their own reasons to believe in your policy, it is all happening now and that the interests, the foreign centres of power, and above all the American and British ambassadors and Serbian tycoons, are more important than the interests of our citizens. We, regardless of what we know, are having a hard time feeling first of all the SPS, PUPS and JS voters, we, Serbian radicals, who have never deviated from our programme, above all from fighting for social justice, for economic prosperity, against crime and corruption, will continue that way. I mean, since the DS electoral body is this way, through the fraud that Dragan Todorovic was talking about, in a very short time it will be seen and the citizens will see that they have been deceived and that there is nothing of major projects, not of investments, nor of new jobs, that in the next elections we will have to...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u165	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u166	Everyone is careful, Mr. Krkobic, I hope that you are the most careful, because most of this exposure is devoted to you personally, and to your party and pensioners of Serbia, who are following this and who are truly deeply disappointed by everything that is happening and because of this coalition that has been made. This news, which is likely to be broadcast tonight on all electronic media in Serbia, that a new president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been elected, can be recast in another way. Imagine now, after all that has happened, that this news tonight on the RTS daily is being shared by Memorial Jovic and Aleksandar Churchvenjakov, representatives of the media before and after October 5th, and that first she, and then Churchenjakov, read the sentence and say -- today the forces of chaos and madness, trampling out the electoral will of citizens, have concluded a coalition with forces of the past and darkness. That's how every voter at this point in your coalition who follows the meeting feels and who sees how far this has gone in the sphere of interest, in the area of concern for the citizens, just because it's supposed to be some new Europeans and what's more important to them to build a government, how-so to take care of themselves and get their chairs. Look how far it leads Serbia. Today we have an extremely difficult economic and economic situation. If you thought you were going to force all these tycoons and people from the DS, who did not report in one word today to support you, from a coalition that was personified by Boris Tadic and leading Serbia to ruin, why didn't your colleagues from Kragujevac, who are from that coalition for so-called. European Serbia, they've known you for so many years, to say a word, to give you support. That's what it'll look like in your future work. You will be left behind, you will have to listen to the ultimatums that come to you from this yellow side and these from the failed SPI and other pieces, and to be surprised and baptized, and for which you have accepted so much responsibility to be the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when you know that the citizens who elected you as a MP did not want any of their vocal ones behind this kind of candidacy. What we can tell the citizens is that we are going to fight to the end that this assembly is working in as many normal atmospheres as possible, we are going to use all the democratic rights to point out the bad laws that will continue to arrive, the ministers who have sinned against the law, who have robbed, kidnapped and stolen. In the end, I made a joke, because I couldn't seriously tell you, first of all, as the lady I've known for so many years, about all these problems that are going to happen and how the average SPS voter is now experiencing at this point. I must tell you, given that Mr. Ivica Dacic decided, after that slogan - Get up Serbia, to bow before Tadic, before Canko and Vuk Draskovic, and before Dinkic, as a personification of the biggest robbery in Serbia in eight years with Bozidar Djelic. But somehow, whether it started from the south of Serbia or from central Serbia, I don't know, today's main hit, though a little bit processed, one song among Serbian citizens, says that's what Ivica Dacic sings to Boris Tadic -- what you're looking for next to them so much, where you were when I was nobody. Ask yourself that question - why are they looking for you now and why is it necessary for you, as Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, one of the founders of the SPS, at this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u167	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I ask MP John Palalic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u168	The Honorable chairman-in-Office, the respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, is always an opportunity to announce to the public that a new assembly majority is to be implemented, the assumption is, in fact, a single policy. We have heard today, and these days, that the parties forming a new assembly majority have agreed on certain principles, which should produce one concrete policy and that there is agreement and will to be implemented around these principles, and that policy should mean making some decisions in the Assembly itself, translated into laws, resolutions or other acts that the National Assembly makes. However, when it comes from how parliamentary debates were conducted over these principles in the previous period, in particular the campaign for MPs in the Assembly in previous elections, the issue is raised - whether what is presented to citizens, that there is a common policy, one farce, or something else, i.e. on the formation of an interesting coalition that needs to finish some jobs that are not in Serbia's interest. For the sake of the public, I will remind you of the way in which individual parties, which are now forming the congregation's majority, have held views on several topics that were most interested in both the public and the citizens, which directly refer to their better lives and Serbia's future. In addition to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is also a verification, ratification of the Energy Agreement in the Assembly with Russia, and as a key, most important topic, Kosovo and Metohija policies. To go from politics around Kosovo and Metohija, which is one miracle, precisely from the parliamentary group now to the president of the assembly, in quite the opposite way only a year ago, when the then assembly majority was formed, when it was decided on the Ahtisaari plan and now when it was due to take a stand on the consequences of Ahtisaari's plan to declare the constitution of the false state of Kosovo. They were the same chairman, i.e. from the same parliamentary group. At that time, Borka Vukic, who had scheduled and put the agenda on the agenda, said the National Assembly had rejected Ahtisaari's plan, and now a representative of the same parliamentary group explained to the citizens that it was not possible. When announcements are heard these days that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is being abolished, when MPs are returning from Strasbourg so that they can't discuss in Strasbourg about Kosovo and Metohija, it is clear that there is a turn-off in the parliamentary group when it comes to policies on Kosovo and Metohija. Serbian citizens should not have any dilemma, only in a year completely different messages and completely different attitudes. The Energy Agreement with the Russian Federation; the SPS said it wants to vote for the agreement, while at the same time making the assembly majority with LSV, with G 17 plus, who were most energetically rejecting the possibility of such an agreement being ratified in the Serbian Parliament. It will be interesting, we would very much like to welcome that day, to see how the parliamentary majority will vote on an energy agreement with the Russian Federation and whether the parliamentary majority works in such strategic and key topics as such. Serbian citizens will be confronted that one part of the parliamentary majority will vote in favour, and the other one will probably vote against, knowing that our parliamentary group, as well as the SRS, will also vote in favour of the agreement. The congregation's majority will not exist at this time. About the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, during the campaign by the president of the SPS and its coalition, we have repeatedly heard that such an agreement cannot be concluded and that it is necessary to talk to the EU to discuss all issues in question. And that's exactly why we broke up with our previous coalition partners because we said -- we want to ratify that kind of agreement, but we want to talk about it first and get rid of all the misunderstandings. That's what the SPS said in the campaign, and now it's joined our former coalition partners who said -- we don't want to talk about it at all -- it's clear here, give it just as soon as we sign it, although the agreement has its own clear hidden intention, that Serbia indirectly recognises the fake state of Kosovo. When around these strategic things in the public, there is an impression that there is a single policy, and most of them see that such policies are not or will be publicly demonstrated, the question arises why such a coalition is formed. There are more reasons here, but if anything is clear because of Serbia's future and because of Serbia's public, it is that Serbia has clearly divided this time. We have a national Serbia, which clearly articulates its values and wants to say that Serbia is the most important, and that Serbia and over Serbia's interest cannot stand down, nor go into any integration that is not in Serbia's interest. Others, who are now forming a new assembly majority, with all integrations, even European ones more important than Serbia. About what is more important, Serbia or something Serbia should move towards, sacrificing its interests, will be having a debate in the coming period. We in our parliamentary group are convinced that the national Serbia, which was to be, and that was the will of citizens, to form a national government, will very quickly win, and that those who deceived voters will be punished very quickly. National Serbia, which protects its interests and its state, will always win.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u169	I call upon the People's MP Dr. Pai Momchilov to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we are already very much discussing the proposal that is ahead for Professor Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, a member of the SPS, to be elected president of the Serbian Parliament. You see, we have a strange session where we didn't even get the answers of some previous one, which were and how interesting to us folk MPs. Which was why it was necessary for this session to be convened in such a secret. We got this material right before I started the session. On the other hand, we didn't get an answer that required this speed. I made one assumption that probably the newly formed coalition wants to rush to form a government, put on the agenda here, that pensions reach 70% of their personal income, that we have free health care and that we have free education, which is the condition of the SPS and the PUPS to form a government with someone. I don't believe that anymore. Whether it's pure haughtiness and the passion of a newly formed majority I can't say, but it seems to me that what the regular writer of Vienna, who lived more than two centuries ago, may have affected the true truth. He said Berfel about like this -- the more gaps, the more speed. I think it fits this current situation completely. But during the debate, we have a third thing very serious, which is now completely certain to me. Many MPs have wondered here why two of our parliamentary delegations were withdrawn from international gatherings of important ones, where important problems affecting the state and national interests of the Serbian state were discussed. It was even said it was intentional. No one's been denied. So I'm inclined to believe that this is also part of a hellish plan from some dark circles. We had an election campaign, you saw, Mr. Todorovic gave you documents and evidence that part of our European political elite served, you saw that it was said here that Serbia unfortunately has a pro-European majority achieved, so we were told by radicals that we received fewer votes, Mrs. Vesna Pesic talked about it. It has been denied, we have received the same number of votes, even more than before, but the number of parliamentary seats due to Dont's system is the cause of having 78 MPs. However, we also have a newly created coalition. I'm not at all inclined to resent the SPS for entering a coalition like this. It is their legal and legitimate right and there is no regret among us Serbian radicals, which is so. There is, however, something that is quite certain and what, if you want from a logical point of view that we speak a little bit in this House, although it may not be directed entirely, falls ahead of the peak of the Cameroonic behaviour of the DS-like doss elite, which now speaks of four principles that drive them to join the coalition with the SPS and other coalition participants. You see, it's social justice. Social justice is mentioned today by someone who has led to this injustice since 2000 fiercely, not to list criminal privatisations and everything else that we are all aware of. Who brought new labour laws? Who brought new pension laws? Who passed the new health insurance law? It will be, gentlemen, that you brought it in and that you brought a good part of our citizens into a difficult social situation, and economics. Furthermore, there is talk of protecting national and national interests. Yes, but in a non-binding, mild way, because you see, if one of you, even from your ranks, directs the words of truth to that Europe, then he gets a tough puck. Remember how Dodik went, remember Jeremic when he said in Zagreb that "Storm" is something that is genocide and something that is not allowed, and that I do not list all these examples for you. Then what's supposed to bring you closer together, which is Europeanism. However, your epicism is a subjective Europeanism. If that were true, the evidence is that Manter and these tycoons, who are no longer Schiller's current, are now Shakespeare's current, have forged this government and forced you to enter this kind of, little by little, strange coalition, legitimate and legal. To be clear, there are no regrets from the Serbian radicals that you are entering. To be honest, many of us fell from our hearts when you did this. You're talking about historic reconciliation. Don't be hypocritical. If you're calming down, it would be logical for you to make peace with most of your opponents and ideological inexperiences. Unfortunately, in this situation, it is the Serbian Radicals, which 30 per cent of the country's electoral body chose, and yet one minority cannot be a representative of the rest, even if it is significant, even if it is a sincere step, that something else pragmatic is not behind it, and that would be commendable and to say hello. Let's go to our own choice and make a proposal for a candidate. I'm a doctor, and I should be kind of handicapped when I'm talking about this proposal. I'll tell you why, by the ethical principles of my profession, I'd have to speak only with respect to my colleague. Of course, I'll stick to that principle. We have here a biography of Professor Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, whom no one from the new coalition wants to support and highlight the values of both man and politician and doctor. As for Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, she is an extraordinary doctor, an outstanding educator and that is no doubt at all. If a man wants to go on, does such a man deserve to be President of Parliament? Yes, unequivocally. However, we have another interesting situation again, personally Professor Dejanovic can be that and it is no problem at all. But there's a big other problem logically or commercially, so you see who's going to define which angle of view. Logically, Serbia's parliament should probably be represented by someone who has received the greatest support of this people. If legislative authority is something that is closest to the lay authorities, which is the people, which is the most springing from national sovereignty, it is logical to respect the will of the people. I guess it's democracy, when a representative of the group most trusted by our country's citizens to be the president of this parliament. Is it normal for someone who got 5.8 to be a legitimate representative of national sovereignty here? He can do it two ways. The first way is a dirty way, when there are no principles. I'm not talking about morals. There's no morals here. Your leader said, "Whom is it to morale, to church?" That's what I'm holding on to, and I'm not complaining to you at all about the moral side of your procedure and your behavior. He can do it in a neat, fair and fine way. Which one is it? If all the parliamentary groups feel this man from the minority group is fit and can represent us. That's not the case here. You are calling for Europe. There is such a situation in the European Parliament that the minority has major positions in the country or not. This syndrome has been following us since 2000, so we have suffered Svilanovic, so we have suffered that Dinkic and we suffer him today. We suffer marginalised minorities, pooled interest groups that are supported, small ones are supported by large ones. What big ones? "Salan and Company." Now, that's our destiny. The small, insignificant in the unprincipled coalitions, there's no DS man to take out, if you don't want the radicals, you don't have to, we're the opposition. What kind of party are you when you don't have to let a man down to suggest that he represents you here? So you don't have quality people. When you're told a yellow company, you're a really yellow company, you're not a politically designed organism, which is also aware of its value and values itself. That's your problem. So, if I didn't owe it any longer, I wouldn't take time for my party buddies. That is why SRS MPs cannot vote for, personally, an extraordinary and good candidate, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Another one at the end of the note. My colleague was framed by those who suggested it. This is not a biography for selecting the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is for selecting a teacher's call or for a member of an academic institution. What's written here, who has measurements and a little taste, would write in two sentences. It is a top medical expert, psychiatrist and top teacher of the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac. If he wanted to keep going, I could tell the leading expert and that would be enough. When someone here writes that an esteemed colleague, says this, as a professor of medical school and founder of a day-to-day psychiatric hospital, has actively applied modern methods of outpatient treatment according to the model of developed European environments. That model in medicine doesn't exist. Medicine is something that is planetary, which is global, and European medicine does not exist. Or, when you say he's currently the only regular professor and head of the Psychology Department, as well as proded for international co-operation at the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac. What are you doing? You're decapitating medical school, Kragujevac psychiatry and Serbian. That's not how it's done, that's not what you're suggesting, this is comedy, this is the ugliness of the man you're proposing. Thank you, and that's why we're not voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u171	Please, Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u172	I shall advertise Members of Rules of Procedures 225 and 226. I think MPs should be informed of everything, which is the point of the agenda. He didn't give me the devil's peace, I did some digging on the Internet and on the last name Đukic-Dejanovic, I dropped one text from 11 March 2003, published in the list "Today". He says so – Djukic-Dejanovic misused the position. Kragujevac; The municipality court in Kragujevac announced yesterday that two investigative proceedings were initiated against Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic for abuse of official position and unconscious service work. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who is a senior SPS official, was on the list of judicial artists of the Kragujeva district court in the area of neuropsychiatry, according to a court statement. I think at the very least it is necessary to also inform this National Assembly that these investigations have been completed. I know Mrs. Dejanovic had immunity at the time, but it's very important because it's not a criminal report. Criminal charges can be filed by a private person or a prosecutor, but when the investigation procedure means that the judge has already found that there are grounds for doubt that it has been done, so I think we should all know here that this is all over.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u173	Milica Vojić-Markovic, MP, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seeing as the manner of not answering questions is, I will try to answer that question. Of course, not on the question that is now being asked, but on one issue that has been bothering Serbia these days. So, to remind you, today is June 25th 2008, and I purposely point out that we need to remember, because from this date on, as of tonight, reincarnation has been introduced to a large door in Serbia. Not reincarnation as a philosophical attitude, not as a religious attitude, but as a political attitude. It's a whole new form. To remind you, religious reincarnation is the return of the soul to this world in some new body. Philosophy is actually catharsis, purification, and politically we'll see it these days. The most interesting thing was what I saw was that the proposal for a presidential candidate was signed by the MPs of Nenada Canka, signed by MPs Vuk Draskovic and SPO, signed by DS MPs, and watched by one who repeatedly boasted here that he was the assaulter of the five-octobar revolution. So, it would be no wonder that the candidate for Parliament's president is not Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, whose name has repeatedly appeared in connection with the election theft in 1996, as well as with the event mentioned, that the lady was almost lynched by those who were so passionately chasing that October 5th, as they now passionately advocate to propose her as a candidate. What's more interesting is that in the biography that was delivered, I saw that the lady was an expert in mental health. I am now absolutely certain that only top mental health expert could persuade Boris Tadic, Nenada Canka and Vuk Draskovic to put her in front of their coalition. About the mental health of citizens who voted for DS and the mental health of citizens who voted for the SPS, I won't talk. I want to say that I'm interested in the mental health of Serbian citizens, who need to understand what this is about, to swallow that those who were squirming by yesterday, killing, threatening, closing, accusing each other of being the greatest criminals, are now shoulder to shoulder with the government. What else do I want to say? The DSS doesn't recognize reincarnation and doesn't believe in reincarnation. The resurrection is fine, but we don't believe in reincarnation. I would also like to say that we also do not believe that in two days of public negotiation, it has succeeded in harmonising what it has not agreed to in years. But it's obvious that this isn't about it being so far away, it's been very close and it's gotten very fast. I also have to say that what I'm noticing - is lying to someone here, isn't lying to the SPS or DS SPS, they're lying, gentlemen, to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u175	Thank you. Ambassador Dr. Milet Poscuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u176	The MPs, now it becomes clear again why it had to be done quickly and why the mobile phone chairman himself was informed that there should be a session, where somewhere in the form of a proposal will be translated into a decision that the speaker of the assembly will be Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Of course, as a colleague, I should probably be the last person to speak against the professional qualifications of Professor Slavica. I think they're completely unequivocally standing in place and she's a good expert. However, since this is the paradigm of future events, such a vote, and since it brings in a fully justified question to us - is it a model and a mustra of how the government is created, then it raises another more difficult, more responsible question - and then what is the national policy of the government, or politics, I have given it directly one important qualification, what will be the government policy? If that unity is at least two types of politics, completely disproportionate, something that, if you're honest, came from your midst completely questionable to you as MPs, who recognize people on the street, so you're certainly much more often and much more, even if my experience, as well as radicals, approached those who voted the SPS and this coalition that goes in the package, so they asked you what it is and whether it's possible. Most of the time, the infidels expressed their views, kept asking whether their main committee, their most political structures, would nominate it, when it happened, they said - so no one asked us. The same way they approached you, perhaps more provocatively, those from the yellow company, the yellow coalition, and themselves not hiding the dissatisfaction and the surprise -- how they were by deciding someone, that is, Tadic, who created his own list in such a way, that they are not only Democrats, but he may have brought in others needlessly. But what would we teach him? He cut short, reduced the number of those who would possibly get mandates. Now he's got these, too. What does that mean? What happened in Serbia? Is that all really legitimate? Are the voters of one block and another really happy? Is that Martti Ahtisaari's syndrome again when it landed, following Milosevic's persuasion that it would be the bombing carpet, which some opposition leaders supported, forced him to sign a contract to break the gun acts, i.e. capitulation, so when he landed in Brussels at the airport, when he asked how he felt -- I feel like a salesman who sold the buyer shoes two less numbers? Why is the SPS in shoes two numbers less, why is it doing that, and DS? What is it that unnaturally connected them, what happened here? What changed that suddenly? There are no regrets of radicals and these others that they are not with us. When we see things like this, thank God they're not. Once we carried a heavy burden of it, we were punished in the elections, but we believed, then we worked for a good, responsible thing. We defended Serbia and all the criticisms we had at the time, which we had to endure, we submitted, we had one clear goal. Now that Serbia needs to be defended again, now that things have become unclear again in Serbia, why the problem is that Serbia is firstly a nation to be preserved, as state priority, and second in hierarchical evaluation, and in parallel, Serbia in Europe on condition, only one condition, that it is within the limits it is within. So nothing different and nothing special, which would drive those who were naturally prone to this national coalition. Finally, that's all they said in the election campaign. They didn't say it was possible to be with the yellows, they didn't say they didn't care about the national program. Now how do they turn their electoral body around, explain it? We know these mechanisms. They'll get a few dates -- they've got Palma's TV, Pink, so I don't advertise them all. They'll cover it all. They'll find ways to say it. Some will be able to convince, and some of course will not. It's not a matter of persuading the electoral body, it's already going into the jurisdiction of their concern -- how they're going to do and what they're going to do. We will not be overly interested in this, but Serbia's fate is what we are interested in. Did she deserve one such deception, one such translation of interest in another direction, in a very short time? Then what's the point of this month's deception? Why the parallel statements, why the Danish gifts, the horse from which some other two packages come out, which, as then, sound public opinion in Serbia - ma, we are for Europe, we will not accept that someone evaluates the initialled and signed agreement? Was it a probe of the terrain and now it needed a flash of crag - yesterday, let's quickly adopt, to quickly get over the fact that the Socialists have already entered the coalition? Of course, I would like, unlike others, because I know the situation in Kragujevac quite well, in a certain way, to be questioned and the very personal choice of that guy who will be president here. If it ever happened that Professor Slavica Djukic acted the way she acted in the course of electoral theft, as director of the Clinical Centre, and shared her resignations to those who did not want to vote for Slobodan Milosevic, exposed them to ridicule, criticism, the newspaper about it, imagine that one moment her ego is working, so that it goes, like that president -- the purse on her shoulder, so she can carry out some dictatorship here, some kind of own or more of a warrant? Because if it wasn't for a higher, interesting warrant, they wouldn't have crossed that easily. So what did the Socialists have that they wanted to go to the national coalition? What didn't they have -- ministerial seats? They can't take it out. The chair, the board of directors, paid for everything they wanted, all that would bear the exercise of power in itself, and will bear it now. So the question remains what is it, because they weren't without an offer. As far as we know, they never really talked, never really talked, nobody to come out. It was all something in the condicional -- a being, hopefully, not all the ships went down, something was delayed, something was like this. Two serious political parties in Serbia, who advocated national programmes, really expected the Socialists to take a rational stance, the attitude that would not lead them to an opportunity to explain now -- so wait for them to be ours, here for another three days, so they took Slobodan Milosevic, so there they are, the man was killed, so he was buried, like a hiduk, somewhere in the yard. He wasn't buried as a statesman, as he looked, in the greats' alley, to be where he belongs, because he was a great statesman where he should have shown it. He may have been thin, weak here, perhaps because of some of the kind of personnel that issued him here, in continuity made him an obstacle to the conduct of his policy. Well, then when what happened to him happened, he ended up how he ended up. Is all that forgotten? And balloons, and this, and that, is tycunisation forgotten, privatisation, criminal acts. You think the citizens forgot that the Socialists, supporting some laws, voted by putting black and red into a quorum. And now these same laws need Mr. Krkobic to correct and recover pensions to fix, to change the funding model. When the law was passed, then they come, they vote red, there's quorum, the law votes and then they go on TV and they say, we're not like some, we're fighting the law. And now that's 90 percent of people go by. Yeah, yeah, they really voted red, you see, they fight. You see how one perfidious prank, if someone doesn't follow closely how they can run into each other. This is a step further. This is much more and much harder, and this requires that the political fate of the party be reconsidered. Let them do so, we will not help them, nor help them, but this is a rather serious situation for Serbia, Serbian interests and what is coming to Serbia, just at the time of the general invasion of part of our territory and of the large, extensive preparatory action. Because this was created by people from the West, those who so far were the traditional enemies of the Serbian people. There's no dilemma. He can't be Solana's friend. Even though Professor Slavica knows that she has to consult where both unhappy children and unhappy parents are, because they suffer from malignant diseases, people can't turn up to receive an air dose of therapy. These are all the problems that bear what the same minister will solve, if she is who she is and if she is the government she is. So, in many troubles, they consciously entered. Critics must fall. We thought and expected them to have a rational relationship with the situation they're in. What's gone too far is like a big speculation. Will they all be saved from the affair "coffer" or who knows what else, save each other's backs? And that time will pass. The time will come again in which some national sobered, rational, conscious, democratically-oriented parties will, however, examine the side of the story, and in doing so nationalally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u177	Replica, Ivica Dacic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just said that the SPS has no intention of attacking those she has worked with so far. It's like when Matija Beckovic says that when Montenegrins spit Serbia, they spit up. You spit on yourself. We worked together. The SPS doesn't make a decision against anyone. It's our own political right to take care of the policy we're taking and that's not your problem. So I ask you, when you talk about it, make sure that when we sat down and talked about making a government with you, you didn't mention what you're talking about, and about Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, and what's in my name. When it comes to Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, she later spoke of what Mr. Shormaz was saying, made up the parliamentary majority and voted for Zoran Shami for the president of the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly. If you didn't mind then, don't bother now. Be correct until the end. Let's talk politically. This isn't about people personally. If they were bad, they're bad when they're with you and when they're with others. If you have already felt that they are correct and good, then stay in that attitude and when it comes to some other political relations. We're not running a dirty campaign against anyone. If someone is guilty of something, let them answer, it's just political guilt, and legal and judicial guilt doesn't determine by who or how he's running his policy, but whether or not he's committed crimes. I want to thank everyone and to say that co-operation with the SRS, with the DSS and the NS, at the time we cooperated, was correct. I have no reason to think of anyone like that. And it can be debated about all sorts of people, and all kinds of applications, and all sorts of works, but it doesn't seem appropriate in this way. As for Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I have already said, she is a candidate for the National Assembly. Express your opinion by voting yes or no. I repeat once again, if what she did did did not mind being a parliamentary majority when you were in power, then it is not correct to even pursue that question five years after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u179	Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u180	I don't know why you're getting excited, Mr. Dacic. First of all, I didn't tell anyone any applications, I said "investigation procedure." There's a difference. Secondly, you can't honor the DSS. We have said political reasons why we will not vote for Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I just asked a question and said that I think this home should be informed of how this investigation procedure, not criminal charges, ended. I think it would be necessary for colleagues who plan to vote for Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, we do not plan to vote for her and this does not mean anything to us; we will not vote for her, but it is an interesting issue. I don't see what you're getting excited about, I think it should be determined, primarily because of the National Assembly and those who will vote for it. That's all I said, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u181	The word is from Ambassador Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u182	Since we obviously have absorbed at least part of the procedural deficits and a few thousand of these violations of the Rules of Procedure, and the time is fast, we can only say, "Forgive them God, they don't know what they're doing." It's so from the Gospel context. But from the context of this earthly, everyday, I'm afraid the sentence relating to this "Semafort Coalition" reads, "Forgive them God, they know what they're doing." The problem is that, according to his time, Nemanja Kusturica, domestic mice have been hiding since the previous presidential elections and politically petting in cafes, far from the eyes of the people, who are under the illusion that both the government and the Assembly will be formed in accordance with his electoral will. The result of this hidden political petitioning is the "es-pups-js-sps coalition", which, ideologically consistently, will support "el du pe". What combined such ideologically incompatible contradictions? Ideology certainly doesn't. They have no ideology, let alone the idea of Serbia. It's a fake of the original. They are acting DOS, with the difference that various DOS parties were reportedly gathered around the common enemy regime, and this "semafor coalition" over a common interest that has nothing to do with Serbia. How else do you explain the encounter of those whose president was unwanted in the cemetery, let alone in Aleya the Great, from those who threw their yellow balloons into ecstasy at the time of his death? Whoever believes in the afterlife is probably wondering what they are now thinking about their and the newly created community and saying Slobodan Milosevic and Zoran Djindjic. Just what I said at the beginning, "Forgive them, Lord, they really don't know what they're doing." It would be nice if the gentleman were in the role of the president of Serbia, and in fact only the president of the DS, showed serious capacity to forgive and forget everything that was ugly, but he always selectively apologizes, and he still threatens a little bit: 'You'll have to deal with me'. What did he not say to those who committed crimes against Serbs in Bratunc, Kravica, all over Kosovo and Metohija? Why didn't he let us express our view of so-called. The Constitution of the so-called Kosovo countries? Which he didn't apologize for then supporting the current chairman who, you'll forgive for comparing, really works as the best exhibit in Palm's bridge museum. This is not an insult, this is a comparison. He does not want to go where it really needs to show that Serbia has no alternative, but will soon apologize for not being English in Serbia, so that foreign ambassadors, who visit kindergartens, schools and parks, can understand Serbian children more easily, which so persistently contaminate stories about the facilitated visa regime. I see that here many older MPs are not interested in young people, they were just formerly, those of the Resistance. Is it true that young people, who are now enrolled in colleges, should be handled marketingly by promising them fast visas for a nice life in Europe? And what are they going to travel with, and who's going to finance it? Not all aunts don't have cannabes or parents who, by profession, are wealthy pensioners. A strong marketing party, and weak policies, along with a coalition with easy moral options, have made both the Assembly and the Government look like the top list of surrealists. It is enough for me, for example, to see Palma with the Constitution and to make it clear to me, as well as a candidate for Parliament President in miu-mia shoes, of the three-and-a-half 500 euros in Serbia, where more than half the population will soon be cut off from Chinese shoes and clothing. No wonder the children in Serbia no longer listen to the fairy tale of Ivica and Marica, but the one about Ivica and Slavica, and everything under the palm tree. Using their psychological skills, the choice of Ms. Slavica as president of the Serbian Parliament can explain the following motives. One, by establishing continuity with that authority, in which time our first film "Slavica" was made, by a titoistic means. Secondly, the woman was the minister of family care, which was best shown by taking care of the organisation of the reception and staging of Comrade Mira Markovic, including her famous flower in her hair. Thirdly, Mrs. Djukic is a psychiatrist, and I already said yesterday that the light of the coalition is definitely a necessary professional help. Who else is going to confront the megalomaniac needs of all these red, yellow and green elements? Who, besides Mrs. Slavica, could convince Palma that, as a person of great form, she was simply born to a minister of culture. Chopin and Beethoven are ready. Who would prevent Mr. Krkobic from being Minister of Youth and Sports? Not to mention Mr Dacic, who, according to his or her own knowledge, was seen to remain Minister of the Portabl Finance. He's got a man of experience with a suitcase and he's got all his own stuff. There is room, in this combination, and for the forgotten God Djelic. He's already in Disneyland, training for Mickey Mouse, because he's got a job waiting for him in Aqualand, in Jagodina. And maybe the girl from the city, like the Secretary of Defense, has some adolescent fantasies about running Biam. What are you going to do? Patients everywhere, even in hospitals. But the job of normalising such a coalition exceeds even the professional capacity and military discipline of the lady who says - I am a soldier of my own party. I can't support Mrs. Slavica Djukic, not even because she's a woman. If a woman is to be president of the assembly, then the place could belong to someone who is not a soldier of his own party, but a lover of his own Serbia. For example, Slavic's fellow citizen Natasa Jovanovic, or my young colleague from New Serbia Aleksandra Ilic, who is the best proof that Serbia can be both smart and beautiful and successful. Or, say, a colleague from the DSS, Donki Banovic. They may not have myu-mia shoes, or the experience of organising these Miriam receptions, but they have the support of all those women who are not ready to accept rude offers, within which Kosovo, the spoon, the family, the love car, and Ban Ki Moon, Eulex, NATO and the gay lobby are very much in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u183	I thank Mrs. Jankovic. The word has a People's MP, Ivica Dacic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this tone we're talking to yesterday is really putting the government of the Republic of Serbia in front of a dilemma as to whether we were even right about what we were doing. What does that mean? We're good with the SPS when you're supposed to be in power, holding capital investments, and all the rest of the ministries, and the railways, and the roads and everything. You're talking about someone else now. You, ladies and gentlemen, were in power thanks to these comrades and friends, as you call them with ridicule, because they gave you power. It's not correct and you're ashamed of what you're saying. It's not right to tell older people what you're saying. Serbian citizens, however, view this parliament as a place of political dialogue and culture, not mutually political insults. I have no reason to react to anything about me or anyone else. I like you very much while you were at the SPO. I don't share your political beliefs with you. We've never been politically close. You took us down on October 5th. Your boss was leading against Milosevic and the SPS on October 5th, but we supported you in 2004 to build this government. I'm asking for minimum political correctness. If you have anything political to say, let's discuss it. Everything else introduces us into a kind of controversy that, I think, is not like this home, and especially not like the DSS-NS coalition, with which we have had extremely correct relations and spit on us is spit on you alone. You spit on yourself because you were with us and thanks to us you were in power. If we were good to you then, and now we have to be good to you, otherwise it's proof that we were only good to you while we were helping you. That's not the kind of relationship we want. No one has the right or the right to speak to the SPS or our coalition PUPS-JS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u185	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u186	Yes, but this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for informing the light coalition. So, Mr. Dacic, are you sitting? Okay. I really don't see any problem with what I've been saying and I don't see it as a non-lethal speech. Of course we've always been on the diametrically opposite sides, which I wouldn't blame you for. There's one replacement thesis. You redefine what I was saying. In the previous government you did support us, but we were not in the government thanks to you but thanks to the will of the Serbian voters and made a government that was correct... So you could either support or not support the people's will, and what you're doing right now is mocking the people's will. What you've just established is actually spit on your own voters. Are you, Mr. Dacic, really allowed out on the street? Do your voters tell you what they think? What's embarrassing is precisely because of this support of yours in the former government that we have problems explaining your activities. I'm being stopped and asked - how could he do it, how much is a suitcase?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u187	Mr. Aligrudic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u188	Replica to Mr. Dacic. In today's presentation, Mr. Dacic, when, as you yourself have said, and I quote, which doesn't count on me at the time, that you have neither the intention to replicate nor to report to the Rules of Procedure, but to do so as a candidate for the National Assembly, among other things, you said - you have your principles and policies that you have no intention of changing. You said -- if someone was talking about voters that they would like the DSS to name one voter who voted for Kostunica in 2000, and that he thought that Kostunica would be in a coalition with the SPS in 2004 or 2008 in a coalition with the SRS and the SPS, that we would benefit from those political parties who want to co-operate with us, and if that co-operation does not want them to. Yes, it is possible that there were DSS voters in 2000 who could not assume that in 2003, the SPS would need to support G17 plus and the DSS in forming a pro-European reform government, because there was no possibility of previous behaviour, the non-democratic behaviour of the DS, which had ousted 46 MPs from parliament, voted abroad and rules of any kind in the Serbian Parliament, to make a normal coalition only after the elections with them. That is when we told you and today we thank you for that, because it is the polite and normal behaviour of a parliamentary party, at that point, as we noticed, we realized that it was necessary to bridge the problem in which Serbia was in the formation of a government. Of course, we cannot say that evil and wrong are the ones who did not support it. They have their own program, their ideas, and they stand up for them in the congregation. We never, as I said this morning, praised you, tears of crocodile lilies and lamentated over the tragedies that struck both political parties, as it was done by Boris Tadic, in order to gain the electoral body, even if its share, for this salty mortal you perform. It is possible that political opportunities from 2000 to 2004, require a certain change, and it is possible that we should eliminate in this Serbia to political parties that are inadequate and those that are not for political life, for political life in Serbia. That's what we need. But don't replace the thesis, don't do it. You've had a pre-election campaign with your program, and in that election campaign, you've advocated one principle, so that after a month and a half you'll run into something that has nothing to do with it. That's what this is about. Don't replace the thesis. No one rules out that after eight years, the SRS may not, protecting some of the principles that are at that time important to the state, be in coalition with the DS. You can't build a principle based on that, defend the principle that you're trying to build in the wrong way now. This is about defending the state's interests, the territorial integrity of the state, from which you obviously gave up publicly, without a single word of explanation. When we speak of this speaker, that you have done damage to the citizens of Serbia, it is the living truth. That it hurts you, that it bothers you right now, so you want to get out of the trouble you're in, and I understand it, and I'm kind of sorry, what to do. But you can't deprive us of the opportunity to talk about it, to explain what you've done to those who watch this transmission, so, after all, let them judge themselves the next day. Nothing is disputed by what you said, but it has nothing to do with what my predecessor Sandra Jankovic said, and it has nothing to do with... (President: Mr. Aligrudic, time. You can't count me on the quoted part... (President: I did, I did. I'm just finishing up. That's what you have to take care of, not bypass the subject as rain around Kragujevci and talk about what no one has asked you alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u189	Here you are, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u190	I really don't see any reason to be nervous. I just want to remind my colleagues from the DSS-NS, from the G17 and the SPO in that period, when the elections were held, it seems to me they were at the end of 2003, the DSS went to those elections with the slogan that they would not rule with the SRS, SPS and DS. The SPS then said it would not be in power with former DOS parties. After that, we made such a political agreement that the DSS-NS-G17-SP coalition was in power. That's not what we talked about back then. True, the SRS pointed to that at the time. If I have an understanding of some political views, I have an understanding of the views of the SRS. For all of this, I can only say that everything that's happened to you in relation to your former coalition partners, don't ask us that kind of question. The political programme and the exposé Mr. Kostunica had when the previous government was formed was acceptable to us and to your coalition partners. We have not given up on any of our political principles, the protection of national and state interests, the preservation of KIM, the defence of Republika Srpska, economic development, social justice, what the PUPS was talking about. In all the agreements we had, there must be an increase in pensions of 10% this year and a change in pension law and pension coordination, to make 70% of the average earnings, and to introduce free healthcare for the poorest categories of the population. It was a political programme with which we went to the elections, and we keep the political programme today. I do not dispute the need and the right of everyone to be politically different and to conflict politically. Here is the place for it, here the citizens of Serbia will measure us whether we are right or wrong. I just don't want to replace the policy debate with insults, tasteless remarks on the account of years, looks, clothes or shoes that someone wears, it's not something to remember us by or by which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will decide. In any case, you who have been in power so far have no reason to speak ill of those whose votes, without the will of the people, you ruled for three years. We don't regret it. Don't you regret it, either. I say one more time, you spit in the air, you don't spit on us, you spit on yourself because with the help of the same people you've been spitin' for three years thanks to the voices of the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u192	Mr. Dacic, I'd like your attention. It's amazing you didn't understand me. What you were talking about has nothing to do with what we lied about. You've heard at least two attitudes here. One attitude is the ultimate principle of nature, which is why we won't vote for your candidate and it concerns directly what you are called here by our MP - the light of the coalition, which simply means that you are gathered by some principle. You said this morning you weren't changing principles, and we couldn't determine what your principle was. Whether it's a principle, let go of social issues and other things, we know your program, we heard it in that part, and you'll probably push it. We are interested in whether this principle includes the principle that you stated on 29 April this year, when you spoke about that no one in Serbia should sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because signing it would mean automatically implicit recognition of KIM independence. That's what we're interested in. Let go of your historical readings and other things. As far as the other things that you've gone beyond, to the question that Dragan Shormaz asked, referring to as an interesting thing, one investigative procedure that was conducted against your candidate for the president of the Assembly in 2003, least of all, instead of telling the broad stories of insults and so forth, that doesn't come to mind, and it's quite possible, and I would like it the most, that this procedure is over with the release of your proposed candidate today, that the public prosecutor has not proven any kind of guilt and that's great, if that's how it's done. It ends with Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic coming out, to answer that question and move on. Mr. Dragan Shormaz explained very simply to you, it should be heard, heard, looked, we didn't know before, at least we sitting here, for that circumstance, maybe someone knew. We're not asking for a major controversy to be opened on that subject. Compared to our decision on whether or not we will vote for Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, we are not interested in it, but I think it was very interesting for those who would vote, members of DS and G17 first of all, and even more interesting for those who voted for the two political parties. It's not decided in that whole story, it wouldn't be decided then, during the time you're talking about, but it's interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u193	I ask MP Momir Markovic to take his word for it at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have finally come to order. Before I begin my presentation, for the sake of our people's MPs, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for the procedure that we will end up conducting, for the sake of this home, to clear up one indeterminateness. First, we will all agree, however, and there is no need to ask the question, that the Constitution is the oldest legal act in one country and all other legal acts, if, by any chance, they are incompatible with the Constitution, the Constitution is applied as senior, under the system of jurisdiction, to the Constitution as the oldest legal act. I'm saying this because at the end of all the discussions, just using the constitution's supremacy as the highest legal act, we're going to have to make one decision. Article 104. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen to elect the president of the National Assembly. Says the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, elects the president and one or more vice presidents of the National Assembly. Article 14 The rules of procedure are slightly different, so he says, for the president of the National Assembly, a MP has been elected who received most of the votes of the MPs present. This means that there could be 84 here, what is the lowest quorum, and that of 84, 43 votes as candidate for the National Assembly president and that he is therefore elected president of the National Assembly. Since the Constitution is a higher legal act, that the Rules of Procedure do not agree with the Constitution, in this case the Constitution will apply. So, in order for Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic to be elected MP, she must have 126 votes, so let's clear this up because 125 is half. There are a few questions left for the chairman, which he would not or could not answer, so I will try for some, and let me just mention, because these questions must also be answered to the MPs and the Serbian public, i.e. the citizens of Serbia and the voters who sent us to this high house to represent them. First, the question of the mayor, the president of the municipalities, who are also MPs; conflict of interest does not allow any of us, and there is a clear constitution to perform these two functions at the same time. Either the gentlemen are mayors, and I see here on this left side, or as my colleague said, this light coalition, I see three mayors, who can't be mayors and MPs at the same time. That question has to be resolved before it goes to the vote. Either the gentlemen will resign as MPs and be replaced or they will resign as mayor and remain MPs and then vote absolutely evenly with all of us. The second question, which has also remained only mentioned or unsettled, is the question of the parliamentary group and the head of the ZES coalition's parliamentary group. Today we have seen the formation of parliamentary groups and the selection of heads and deputies of parliamentary groups, and for those who say they are the largest, strongest, although there are seven or eight parties, counting on those dwarves who have been dragged into parliament on their backs, so they have one or two MPs. Unfortunately, Serbia's fate depends on such ones, but that is already their problem. The problem with the National Assembly is that no parliamentary groups have been formed and that there are no heads of parliament, and therefore there is no discussion on this side. I'm sure there's at least one of them, if not more than one of them provoked the discussion, then he'd go out and say it. The reason why there is no parliamentary group and the head of the parliamentary group is quite prosalyst, but very simple: the blackmail of G17 plus that either Mrs Grubjesic will be the head of the ZES parliamentary group or G17 plus will come out and form a new parliamentary group. That's where they found themselves in unguarded grapes. A new parliamentary group can also be at the same time a disagreement in future decision-making, so this is a question that the National Assembly must also resolve previously. Let's go back to what's been discussed all day and at least try to say something that hasn't been said yet. I'll get you back to the post-election campaign, the elections have passed, negotiations with the DSS-NS coalition with the SRS started, and, about when it started to smell that you're also negotiating with another camp, Boris Tadic said in a show or in a negotiation with the SPS that DS and the SPS had about the same fate, because they tragically lost presidents. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my conscience does not allow me to go over these words, and allow me to put a sign of equality between the victims of Slobodan Milosevic, the victims of those same men who arrested him, on Vidovdan delivered him to The Hague executioners, where he ended up tragically, where he was killed and when he was brought here, the same or at least part of them were blowing balloons and making performances here, when the SRS, the SPS, didn't drop any other party, decently escorted to the last time. As a citizen of me, as a Serb, as a Christian, deeply injured the behavior of some of my fellow MPs, who, after that act, calmly even came and sat in these ranks. The victims Slobodan Milosevic and Zoran Djindjic, the mafia prime minister, who died in the mafia's shootout, cannot be equalised. Shouts, throws. Just to get involved, I can't do that. What is the reason for this unprincipled government and coalition? The reason is very simple. The pressure of the Western ambassadors, the pressure of the boss, the owners of these political parties. Our boss is the people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, and they have their own bosses. American ambassador, English ambassador. The English ambassador publicly boasted in Uttice Sunday that he was putting pressure on you, as he convinced you, that he was trying to convince some others, and you're talking about something now. Furthermore, the pressure of the tycoons that have become tycoons thanks to your rule, many in the previous period of the house had nothing to bite them for, now they don't know what they have, so they share, of course, everything has a price. Then, the pressure of the Democrats from the country and the world. When I think of the pressure of the Democrats from the country, I mean just the pressure of certain political parties who couldn't bear the pressure and I don't blame them, I'm sorry they decided to do so, but I don't really blame them. I speak to those who have agreed to form with the U.S. government. It's not like they've convinced them that they'll meet all the conditions you've set, I guess they're the same conditions when you've negotiated with us and with them. The increase in pensions; so Mladjan Dinkic openly said that there was nothing of it, that it was only post-election stories, so that Serbian citizens could easily swallow that bitter pill that was being prepared for them. The preservation of Kosovo and Metohija; so do you not understand, gentlemen, that the return of our delegation from Strasbourg from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is a clear sign that they have no intention of moving around the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. Isn't it clear to you that Serbian President Boris Tadic cancelled his trip to Strasbourg? They will not leave because someone will ask him - what did you say there, if he says anything, or someone there will ask him - what do you think of Kosovo and Metohija, the Constitution of Kosovo, etc. Free health and schooling; don't, please, we're still too serious an institution to be here, in front of the MPs, saying it's agreed. There is no free health care, no free education, on the contrary, health care will be getting more expensive because this minister, who has already served two terms as a minister of health, has led health care to a beggar stick. My fellow MPs, who are otherwise a medical profession, should say how many administrations they need to do, would one patient get one prescription for a drug that's on that so-called. a positive list. They turned doctors into scribes. I have a friend who's a doctor of general medicine, who says I have to write for 20 minutes to examine the man and talk to him. This will continue, a list of medicines that need to be bought in pharmacies will continue to expand, narrow down the list of mandatory medicines, and there is nothing from health care. What is now being done, the former rulers of the yellow company will not give up a single centimetre of their privileges. They will continue to rob either through a Burazer privatisation, while clearing up this little property left in Serbia, will continue to sell the economy, Kosovo and national interests, the Hague indictees. The other day, the unfortunate Stojan of the parishioner was captured and shipped to The Hague. The responsibility for that, ladies and gentlemen, you will bear all those in that coalition, and we will only be in the wills to determine how much they stole, because I know one who was a year and a half in office, and now his will weighs 20m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u195	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I want to say first is that since its establishment of the DSS, when it was in power and when it is in opposition, it is a correct political factor in our country. We were correct in power, and I want to remind Mr. Dacic of that fact, but we will be correct, of course, in opposition. Another thing I want to say and that there is no longer any dilemma here, the DSS will be the opposition party in the coming period, which will implement its fundamental programme principle, which is that there is no nation without democracy and there is no democracy without a nation. I'm sure we worked responsibly on that while we were in power. Now that we're in opposition, we'll fight that principle as soon as we can affirm it into state policy. Mr Dacic, I don't know if you've noticed one thing, today was the least talked about the candidate herself for Parliament President, which is quite expected, because with all due respect to Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, she is a collateral consequence of the agreement you made with the DS. It is a very interesting fact that no one, but no one from the DS today, has said anything in terms of support given to the candidate for president of the assembly. It's a very interesting piece of information and I just feel bad that you have to, on behalf of the entire coalition and on behalf of the DS, come out and defend the candidate here today, or defend your position to have the right to the president of the National Assembly. What I said here that an agreement has been reached between you and the DS is not a logical thing, because political agreements are being made between political parties and political coalitions. I don't see a political agreement here and what we want here and what we're trying to open is what is the political platform that connected the SPS to one side and the DS. No one spits on the SPS here, at least I won't do it, but I want to open that question, to explain to us what a political platform you're going to operate on with DS. As you here, on many occasions, said you were correct when you supported the government of Vojislav Kostunica. I also say that the government of Vojislav Kostunica, first and second, was correct, not only towards the SPS and not only to other parties, but above all towards the citizens of Serbia, but when you minorityly supported that government, we had a political agreement. Was the political agreement reached to stop the hack against all the people charged and who were delivered as garbage bags to The Hague? Has political agreement been reached on this? Have we passed a co-operation law with The Hague tribunal? Did we save on this issue of elementary national and state dignity? I think so. It was one of the political agreements that we made at the time and I mean the satisfaction of the state and the citizens who live in this country. There have been other political arrangements, but the political agreement that you may have reached with DS here I don't see. You are obliged to say that, i.e. to explain to citizens and your voters, but also to us as an opposition party, who will always remind you of that fact, to see what a political agreement is, or what a policy that has brought together incompatible. There was talk of national reconciliation. Have a representative of the DS come out here and say here that this is an act of national reconciliation. No, the DSS has continued to work on national reconciliation. We wanted to declare the Constitution together, we did it. We wanted to have as a state and as this parliament a common policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, and there is a waterhouse. There's a waterhouse between those who haven't issued the principles we agreed on, and what's written in the Constitution and what over 50% of the citizens confirmed in the referendum. So there's a waterhouse and our message to you: do you really think that with the DS you'll defend Kosovo and Metohija, do you really think that we had a change of attitude when we said that signing the Association Agreement is a factual recognition of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. That is a fact, and we will not stand down from it. We didn't step down in the campaign, or after the campaign, we have no intention of doing it in the next period. You've strayed from that principle and that's where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u197	There is a word from the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u198	Serbia may be at its most difficult time in its history. It is during this period that the institutions of Serbia do not work, the government is technically, and the assembly has been disbanded. We will definitely all agree that we need to have the President of the Assembly as soon as possible and we will probably have him tonight, that the Assembly has all its intended committees and bodies and that the sooner we have the government. But it had to be said here today and a lot of things that had nothing to do with the future president of this assembly. There must have been a lot to be said not to repeat things, here I am now the second term of Parliament, which I have seen in the past assembly. In the last session we had, I would like it never to happen again, that this assembly be instrumentalised, that the President of the Assembly be particularly instrumentalised and that we, as MPs, be transformed, and this assembly, into the transmission of some executive authority, to impose on us both the agendas and the laws that we will discuss. I would like to warn you that in this next term, the President of the Assembly will not be. True, from these parliamentary benches where SPS MPs are now sitting, many will go to other duties. So this support, which today did not follow the lady who will be president of the Assembly by her coalition partners, in any case by leaving both Mr Dacic and other SPS members, will be denied here in some way for their support. But that is why it will have to make sure that it does not only represent the SPS or this left side of the Assembly here, but that it represents all citizens of Serbia and that it is also particularly good for its integrity. For then the support of the other messengers will surely come. Someone here today said, I would not want that to happen, with the very choice and the proposal for the seat of Parliament's president, that Mrs. Dejanovic would make a rag, however, all of us, 250 of us sitting here on the right, will all be rags if the work of the Assembly continues as it was in the last session. I repeat, I don't want us to be just a transmission and just do the will of some people who aren't sitting in this congregation, who aren't even in this building. For this reason, I ask Mrs Dejanovic to ensure that the Assembly is what it should be - the legislative authority of this state, and that the lady be exactly what she was said yesterday - the second man of this country, and certainly not the tenth, the 15th, or who already is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u199	Thank you, Mr. Delic. I'd like to ask Mr. Pastor Balint to come to the pay phone for representatives of the Manjin parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my turn to present, at the end of today's working day, the position of the Manjin Parliament group and the Hungarian coalition on such a significant decision by the Assembly, what is the President's choice. We are ready to support the candidate for Parliament's president, behind whom is a sufficient consensus of parties most likely to form a government. Of course now is not the government's choice on the agenda yet, and since the election of the president of the assembly is always a clear sign that the parliamentary majority has been reached, I should also say a few sentences about the future government. The Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Hungarian coalition is ready to support the government, which will work, not on the level of words, on accelerated European integration, on dissipating European values, on economic and agricultural issues, on expanding the autonomy of Vojvodina, on decentralisation and on ensuring minority rights. It is now likely that the new government will be ready to face these challenges. That is why we are ready to be part of the new parliamentary majority and since we will be part of the new parliamentary majority, we will support Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's election as National Assembly President. In addition to this clear attitude, I must say unequivocally that we are not happy that the parliamentary majority will be composed of these parties. I also have to say unequivocally that I'm referring to the SPS. We are ready to co-operate and we will have to cooperate, and we are also prepared to contribute to achieving common goals in that future government, but we are not ready for collective amnesia, nor collective amnesty. It's not my personal position, it's not just the people's position of the Union of Duke Hungarians, it's the position of the Hungarian national community, and that's an unequivocally said. I am very sorry that no one has said that from these colleagues, who will do the same to us as the future parliamentary majority, because it would be fair to say that or it would be fair to say that. We have not set up ultimatums in either personal or programming terms, but we are also interested in the efficient work of Parliament. Once again, let me reiterate that we will support Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's election as Parliament's president, but we naturally consider that we also have expectations for the candidate for this significant function. I also think it's fair to say publicly from this place what our expectations are. In many European countries, Parliament is called a respected home or a high home. Parliament is the most representative body in any democracy. The work of the Assembly should be worthy of the highest home, and the atmosphere should be working. This is always the responsibility of that MP who is also the president of the National Assembly, or the president of parliament. I hope that parliament, led by Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, will work differently compared to how we could have experienced it in the past term and what it looked like in previous mandates. I must also say that we expect, unlike the previous National Assembly, the Assembly to have a government, not the Government of the Assembly, regardless of what we will do to the future parliamentary majority. I must also say that this will be the responsibility of that MP who will be the president of the National Assembly. I hope that all MPs will be respected, that the President of Parliament will consult with all parliamentary groups on every important issue for the work of the National Assembly. Also, I must say that the Manjina MP group is the first to be formed in this respected home. We don't want to prename our significance. Our parliamentary group makes up only seven MPs, but we certainly won't let them disrespect us. We are the third partner, alongside the DS coalition and the SPS coalition, in the new government and certainly expect to be respected in the future ruling majority. I said we were not setting up ultimatums and we are not going to set up ultimatums now, and we are not going to prename our significance, but I certainly must say that without the seven MPs of the minority group, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic would not be elected as National Assembly President today. A year ago, we heard about 40 European laws that this parliament was due to adopt by the end of last year, and only the Law on Travel Documents and the Law on Asylum was adopted. This way of work should certainly be changed if the first priority of the future government of the Republic of Serbia is accelerated European integration. Joining the European Union should be ensured in this esteemed home by harmonising the legal system of the Republic of Serbia with the EU legal system. Hundreds of laws should be passed during this term of the National Assembly. I hope that's possible. The National MPs of the Manjina Group will certainly be ready to contribute to the effective and quality work of the National Assembly, and we are certainly ready to partner with the new National Assembly president in the leadership of the assembly, in a way that this assembly is indeed the most representative body of the Republic of Serbia, a respected home or a high home, as parliaments are called in European democracies.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u201	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not yet used his right under Article 93? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the debate on the candidate for the President of the Assembly has been brought to an end. Just once again, because of those who may not have followed the debate, because of Serbian citizens whose transmission was the only way to find out what was going on in Serbia's parliamentary life, to repeat the SRS position. We are against the election of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic to the president of the National Assembly, because it is the choice of DS, and the DS cannot bring anything good to Serbia, even when it appoints an SPS candidate as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We'll vote against it. We wait for government and ministry laws to enter the procedure, we wait for the government's election, and then we will say what we think of such a government. Today we did not use to remind you how you are making an unprincipled coalition and what it will bring to Serbia. Today we used to try to defend the integrity of the National Assembly. Obviously, you have to carry out the tasks you've been given. It is obvious that you have firmly decided to test Serbia further, not to let it live peacefully, to live well, to live in peace and co-operation. Obviously, you still want to create conflicts between those you put into your own and those of others. Apparently, the DS is still a criterion for many political parties in Serbia. If they're with her, they're democratic parties. When they stop the coalition with her, they stop being democratic. If they are with her, then the parties that have been reformed, and when the co-operation ceases, it will be the unreformed parties again. We want to participate in this by always saying what we think, and we think this is a very bad combination and it doesn't agree at all, it doesn't fit and it can't last long. Why do you make things that can't last long and that you're making something that's destined to have early parliamentary elections? Why are you putting horns in a bag? Obviously, these two ideologies don't go together. If anyone can say that they know the ideology of each other, that's what I'm saying. I know a very good ideology of DS, I know the ideology of the SPS. Today and in the next seven days, you won't tell us how different there are between you, but we know them very well. The first more serious problem to be put in front of all of you will show how different you are. From us, expect the laws that we're checking out what you've agreed to and whether you'll fulfill it. Please expect us to propose laws that defend Serbian sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. We expect laws that improve the material position of all citizens. We expect laws to determine who was a criminal in the last eight years and who wasn't. You expect us to finally come out to see who the Democrats are, who they're not. You must expect us never to allow you to suspend a session of the National Assembly. You can expect us to fight here in the Assembly for the rights of the citizens who sent us to the Assembly. You expect us to cooperate with you whenever Serbia is in danger, and when you want to defend it, and expect us to attack you whenever Serbia is in danger, and you act like a combing grandmother while the village burns. We will vote against, fully aware that we are doing a good thing. It would be good if those, who today can't wait to vote for, were aware of how bad they make Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic herself. She's aware of it, but she's wise to keep quiet, she doesn't want to make a statement about it. She forgot what you arranged for her. I'm just reminding her that you haven't left anyone alone. Whoever you've done evil to once in your life, you're willing to repeat that evil a hundred times. Thank God, there's an SRS in Serbia that's put you down a little bit, so you're not as aggressive as you used to be, while you were breaking the SPS. We'll always be the stone around your neck, we'll always be the bone in your throat, we'll always be your finger in your eye, and that's the only thing that can help Serbia. We're changing you in the next election. Now you've found again how to stay in power. I remind those who help you do great evil to Serbia, to do great harm to their families, friends, and that these people should look into the eyes of both tomorrow and in a month and in two months. As far as we're concerned, our conscience is completely calm. As far as we're concerned, none of the principles, the ideologies of the SRS, the program, we neither failed nor came to mind. For a handful of silversmiths, it looks like anything can be bought in Serbia. No one can buy us. Hang in there. To whom the opposition's radicals have not yet pushed the entire mandate. Socialists when they were strongest, had only one term of office since they were four years old while radicals were their opposition. So I call on Serbia not to grieve too much about what is happening today. There will be more happiness and joy in Serbia, if this flood must pass, let it pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u203	I thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Please, Mr. Aligrudić, then Mr. Todorovic. Please, a little patience, we'll finish everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u204	Very briefly, for the very end, to recap or even repeat. Tonight, a group of political parties is elected by the president of the National Assembly, but unfortunately tonight was not the job of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens are not getting their National Assembly president tonight. It is received by MPs of individual political parties, because we haven't heard tonight, we may hear it in the coming weeks and months, which are the principles which in such a clear and unequivocal way link the coalition that proposes this candidate, which surely all those citizens who voted for my left hand in the previous elections are behind. If we hear that one day, it's going to be a big revelation for us and probably a big surprise, because we certainly can't figure it out in an easy way, with our humble mental abilities, what happened in that situation. Now, in situations like this, we can say that any trouble, and this is certainly trouble, among many others that has happened to Serbia, is not going to be anything but will pass at some point. When the trouble is over, better days will come, and in these better days the parties, such as the DSS and the NS, will lead the state of Serbia and lead the executive power in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u206	What kind of anxiety is that, please? If you haven't adopted that fact by now, I really don't know what you're going to do in future work. Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure to warn you of some things that are clearly being prepared, that you do not succumb to the influence of this yellow company again, because I'm sure they have no quorum, or 126 MPs. Because part of this coalition is fighting between themselves who's going to win or take any place. You are now transferring this problem to the entire congregation. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, to see who takes the fate of Serbia into their hands. You are not able to make one simple choice in the Serbian Parliament to end up the usual way. What Serbian citizens expect from you when serious problems arise that need to be addressed. Obviously, this chase and race to make a majority at all costs, not to worry about having problems, because the bar is too small, the crocodile is a lot, and it's causing huge problems that you're not able to solve. Mr. Krkobic's efforts from the beginning, I really have problems breaking the language, making Mr. Krkobic the whole time, here he is, the first time chairing the Assembly, making things like this, which he is probably ashamed of, certainly because of what he would never accept to decide. That's why I'm saying this because of the citizens of Serbia that they understand who they're dealing with, and this newly formed coalition to see who they're dealing with. Maybe this is another reason. I'm sure there are some in the DS whose stomachs aren't used to swallowing everything, or they can't digest it. Maybe this is objectively the only way that they're kind of expressing a protest over all of this that's going on. I understand that. They must understand that they should do so on the party's legal authorities, that it is democratic, as their name says, where it is located, they do, not show it to such a transparent assembly and citizens of Serbia. I therefore warn you that, since the lists of speakers have been exhausted, if no one is to report to the Rules of Procedure anymore, that you should begin to finish this job, that is to say, to vote for a candidate for president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u207	I'm closing the debate. I'm taking a break until 9:15. We've got to get this thing ready. [[After break – 21.20]] Please, we're starting work. In order to determine the quorum, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. Since we have a quorum for a full-time decision, let us proceed. According to Article 10(5), Rules of Procedure, I am setting out a list of candidates for the National Assembly president, in which only one candidate is Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and since it is in agreement with Article 10(5) of the Convention, Rules of Procedure, a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that, according to Article 11. Rules of Procedure, before the election of the National Assembly president, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by calling the Members of Parliament under Article 12. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on a proposal that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote - a call. For 128, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 82, out of a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly decided, by majority, that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by calling, by public vote. Since the National Assembly has decided to hold a public vote by electing the National Assembly president, the vote should be held by calling the ambassadors. Before we go to the roll call vote, I would like to remind you that he is a member of 124. The Rules of Procedure are governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and that, according to that provision, the Secretary of the National Assembly should call on the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name. Every MP says the word "yes", "against" or "abstained". The chairman reiterates the name and last name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not want to vote. The Secretary of the National Assembly shall record a statement by the MP or his absence by his name or his last name on the list. Before we go to the vote, I remind you that it is according to article 104. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all national MPs, elects the National Assembly president, which means that a MP has been elected to the National Assembly, who received most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Professor Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We approach the vote by calling out the MPs. I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. I note that the vote is done in such a way that every MP says the word "yes", "no" or "abstained". I ask the MPs to stand up and plead when they vote. The secretary makes a call to the MPs. SEKRETAR (Tamara Stojčević): Avramović Milan - v, Agatonović Borjan - za, Albjanić Milosevic - za, Alšić Boris - v, Aligrudić Miloš - v, Andrić Ivan - v, Antić Zoran - absent, Arsenović Igor - v, Aćimović Dragan - v, Babić Zoran - v, Bajatović Dušan - za, Banović Zoran - v, Batić Dr Vladjan - od, Budimirović Igor - v, Buha Milorad - za, Bozidar - Za, Vasliljev Željanović - za, Željinović - za, Bortić Zoran Zrada - vrada Željko, Željko - za, Budimirović - v, Budmirović - v, Buda Milorad - v, Boha Milorad - od, Varga Milo - za, Varga - Zal - Zal - Za, Varga - Zažev Željko - Zažić - Zažiljov Žov Žjavić - Zažilj, Vrad, Vbić - Zrad, Žrad, Žrad, Vrad - Žrad Žrad Žrad, Žradkodak, Žradić - Žradić - Žrad Žrad, Žrad Žrad, Žrad, Žradkredak - Žrad, Žrad, Žrad, Žradkredić - Žrad, Žrad, Žrad, Žalić, Žradić, Žbić, Žalić, Žbić, Žbr. Just a moment to count the votes. - Voting count. ) Since we have held a vote to elect the president of the National Assembly - provoking, I am finalising the vote and we are approaching the results of the vote. Let me give you the results. Of the 225 MPs present, the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, there were 128 MPs, against 97, who were not abstentioned. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that the candidate, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, received most of the votes of all the MPs and that the National Assembly for President has elected Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Allow me to congratulate Professor Dr Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic in his election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on your behalf. I ask the president of the National Assembly to take his place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-25-0.u209	Dear People's MPs, allow me to thank you for your election for such a significant state function, and for those who voted for me, and for those who did not do it and for all who participated in the debate. Let me tell you that my work orientation will be the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law and the Rules of Procedure of Labour and that I will invest really complete my and psychic powers and all the experience that I have to do effectively in the coming period, that the spirit of tolerance is in work and that, of course, dignity is at that level that deserves our country and our citizens. We should continue our work today, or I'll schedule an extension of tomorrow's session by 12.00 hours. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to be with me at 11:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Constitutional Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to thank Professor Jovana Krkobabić for the session so far. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 196 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are enough MPs present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. At this point it's 207. Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that they are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Article 23. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as established: the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, whose National MP is Nada Kolundžija, and its deputy MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, and the G17 Plus MP, whose MP is Suzanne Grubjesic, and its deputy MP, Vlajko Senic. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE PRESIDENT'S COUNTRY OF THE National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Republic of Serbia's election before we move to the election of vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that he is a member of 15. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly found that the National Assembly had no more than six vice-presidents, and that, at each constitution, the National Assembly determined the number of vice-presidents by special decision on the proposal of the President. I propose that the National Assembly determine that there are six vice-presidents in this meeting. I now inform you that I am in accordance with Article 16. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have received six proposals from candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, or proposals from candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly, have already been sent to you. As you have seen, the following MPs were proposed for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly: Bozidar Delic, member of the SRS; Natasa Jovanovic, member of the SRS; Nikola Novaković, member of G17 Plus; Radojko Obradović, member of DSS; Judita Popović, member of LDP and Gordana Komic, member of DS. Since, in accordance with Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the rapporteur has the right to explain the proposal, ask if the rapporteurs, MPs Tomislav Nikolic, Milos Aligrudić, Cedomir Jovanovic, Suzanne Grubjesic and Nada Kolundžija want to explain the proposals of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly? No, I don't. I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica - 36 minutes; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group Coalition SPS - PUPS - JS - 24 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds and the Manjina Parliamentary Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds. I ask the MPs' groups, if you have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a hearing on a proposal to determine the number of vice-presidents of the National Assembly and the proposals of candidates for vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. Before we move on to the selection of vice presidents of the National Assembly, the National Assembly must first determine the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly in this assembly. I put the motion to vote at the National Assembly finds that there are six vice presidents in this meeting. For 220, it did not vote 6, out of 226 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We continue our work and move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly. Allow me to agree to Article 17(5). I shall establish a list of candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly in the alphabetical order of the last name. According to the proposals submitted, I am setting out the following list of candidates for the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: 1. Delic Bozidar 2. Jovanovic Natasa 3. Novakovic Nikola 4. Obradović Radojko 5. Popović Judith 6. Komić Gordana I remind you that according to article 18. The Rules of Procedure, before joining the election of the Vice-Presidents, decides whether to vote in secret or in public, by making a public vote by making a statement to the MPs for each candidate individually - by raising hands or by calling. I propose that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be made by public vote - by raising hands. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 224, they did not vote four out of the 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is done by public vote - by raising hands. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly is done by public vote - by raising your hand, I remind you that the public vote - by raising your hand, according to Article 118(2). The Rules of Procedure shall make a statement to the Members of Parliament for each candidate individually. I also remind you that, according to Article 123. The Rules of Procedure, if voted by hand, the MPs first declare - who is behind the proposal, then who is against the proposal and ultimately who abstains from voting. I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 104(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, elects the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to vote mostly on all MPs. For the election of vice-presidents of the National Assembly, we will vote in the order that the candidates for vice-presidents are set out on the candidate list. 1. I would like to put a vote on a proposal to elect MP Bozidar Delic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? (234) Who's against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (Niko) I find that the National Assembly, with 234 votes, has chosen Bozidar Delic as vice president of the National Assembly. 2. I am voting on a proposal to elect National Assembly Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic. Who's up for this proposal? (230) Who is against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (Niko) I find that the 230-vote National Assembly has chosen Natasa Jovanovic as vice president of the National Assembly. 3. I am putting the motion to elect MP Nikola Novakovic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? (230) Who is against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (One) I find that the 230-vote National Assembly has chosen Nikola Novakovic as vice president of the National Assembly with one abstention. 4. I am voting on the proposal to elect MP Radojko Obradovic as vice-president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? (233) Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. ) I find that MP Radojko Obradovic, with 233 votes, has been elected vice president of the National Assembly and I congratulate him. 5. I would like to put the motion to elect MP Judita Popovic as vice-president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? (232) Who's against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that MP Judita Popovic with 232 votes has been elected vice president of the National Assembly and I congratulate her. Six. I would like to put the motion on vote to elect MP Gordana Komic as vice president of the National Assembly. Who's up for this proposal? (230) Who is against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. ) I find that MP Gordana Komic, with 230 votes, has been elected vice president of the National Assembly and I congratulate her. Since the candidates received the required number of votes from all MPs, I agree that the elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly and once again, on your behalf and mine, I congratulate them. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – The choice of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The Word has a National MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
