ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Before we begin our work, I ask you to pay our respects to the deceased MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Dragan Tasic for a minute of silence. Praise him. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 171 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, this one condition that requires the presence of at least 126 MPs has been fulfilled and the National Assembly could therefore work. I must warn the president of the National Assembly to repeat a warning from the discussion when Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic is elected, that the president of the National Assembly must rise above the daily political needs. I said you would have to swallow a lot to run the National Assembly as required by Boris Tadic. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, on Friday, secretaries at the parliamentary clubs received notice to wait, not to go home, because they will receive bill proposals and convene some sessions, some extraordinary session of the National Assembly. I came down, you were gone, Mr. Secretary was gone, the secretary was sitting down and waiting. It's written, it says, somewhere on the fifth floor, something the secretaries have to wait for. I now warn you that you have been obliged by written order, under Article 84. Rules of Procedure, to determine the date and time of the meeting of the National Assembly with a draft agenda, at least seven days before the meeting. There are provisions on an emergency procedure, which probably someone in the service might warn you about; I don't know if the secretary is still ready to react so quickly and inform you of the bad interpretations of our Rules of Procedure. It could really be interpreted, but before I warn you that the bill cannot be found in the procedure 15 days before the application and 60 days after the application. This is the normal procedure required by the National Assembly. There's only one more exception, and it's an emergency procedure. I now warn you that by that exception, you could not have scheduled this extraordinary session. In effect, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia provided for certain circumstances under which a law could be found on the agenda of the scheduled session. And it says that a law whose prenuptial would have caused adverse consequences, a law proposed because circumstances that could not have been foreseen by then could, exceptionally, be included in the agenda of the scheduled session, no later than 24 hours before the start of the session. So these two laws that are the basis of an emergency session could, if you adopt an emergency procedure here in the later part of the session, be on the agenda of some session that was scheduled. They couldn't find themselves on the agenda of an emergency session that had already been scheduled. They are required to hold an emergency session, and there is no emergency session under emergency procedure. Then there are general terms in the Rules of Procedure. And of course, during the sitting itself, when it begins, some defence laws can be found on the agenda, although they are proposed at the session itself. In this case, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have continued the bad practice of all the presidents of the National Assembly so far, except for me who did not have the opportunity to schedule sessions, and I would not, no authority from me would receive them under conditions that are not provided for by the Rules of Procedure. They knew that, so it was the basis for my shift. You are turning the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into a servant of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, even as a maid of the future government who hired its MPs from the parliamentary majority to ask for a meeting, to ask for the agenda, to propose the laws handed down by the Government, or perhaps you, the Members of Parliament, have decided how many ministries there will be and how you will cite that cheerful Dinkic three pages of job description, and the foreign minister four rows. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, at this moment in the eyes of the SRS parliamentary group, your conscience is on the test, your understanding of the chairmanship of the National Assembly is on the test, and it will directly decide on our future relations. We don't have any personal sympathy or antipathy for anyone here, we define ourselves according to how the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the laws of this country is respected. You violated them harshly, because, to inform you, I left the building of the National Assembly on Friday, around 1900 hours, nothing had arrived yet. Tell me, which of the MPs received timely proposals for government and ministry laws? Who could have read them, interpreted them? What MP club had time to take their stand, to make a decision about them, to write amendments? Why didn't you allow us to think about two of the most important laws, the Law on Government and the Ministry, not looking at the clock, whether we could read anything by the session of the National Assembly or not? Then what about the other laws? You're not going to prepare the budget for us Friday night so we can have some kind of session Monday night? I object to the injuries of three members of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to answer that, and I ask you to decide in the voting day here, and to embarrass yourself once again, that you vote that the Rules of Procedure has not been overrun, and that will make the masks fall. I warn MPs who have tasted bitter opposition bread under DOS not to join the DOS in mixing such bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u224	Thank you. I called the session in accordance with Article 84(2). The Rules of Procedure, which states: "Extremely, notice of the time of session and agenda can be delivered within a shorter period", than those you spoke of, "where the President of the National Assembly is obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session", which I will do in the coming minutes. Before I inform you of the absence of the MPs. They were prevented from attending: Vladimir Jovanovic, Bojan Kostreš, Ivica Dacic, Milutin Mrkonjic. Let me inform you that, on the basis of Article 37(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, represent the parliamentary group at this meeting, in the absence of the president of the parliamentary group, at all points of the agenda. Now an explanation of the reasons for calling a session within a short period of two days from the day in which the sessions are held. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session, exceptionally, on Monday, as well as within the deadline set by Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, due to the need for the National Assembly, to respect the reasons for passing the laws of urgency, as soon as possible, to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government and the Proposal for a Law on Ministry, which was submitted by 122 MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen... According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u225	For colleagues who ask me which member, I now have the right to express my dissatisfaction with your answer. You've only tried to answer one of my remarks about calling a session. I objected to you putting the law on the agenda, I objected to your right to convene an emergency session, since all points of this extraordinary session are scheduled by emergency procedure. You must answer me – why did the MPs not have a Rules of Procedure scheduled for a seven-day period to become acquainted with the bill? You have to give me some very good reason, to tell me what the adverse effects would have on the country, if known to be so-called. The technical government is extremely functioning, as I would say, by phone and e-mail, sometimes they get together, they drink coffee, they solve very important questions for the country. Negotiations lasted a long time. Nothing has happened to the country in the course of these negotiations. So, as politicians negotiate, the state can have adverse consequences. Now, when the MPs need to have a deadline within which they can get acquainted with the law, the question of harmful consequences per country is now raised, if the MPs demand that they have their right to have in the hands of the bill seven days before it is on the agenda. Well, it is not true, Madam President, that the adverse consequences arise only if the MPs demand that they act according to the law. Many more harmful consequences of the performance when we take into account the will of politicians, and then their arrangements depend on whether there will be governments and what kind of government will be, and in particular what justification it will be to put together, I would say, a mindless government. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I ask you – what would have been the adverse consequences since you did not allow yourself to answer me immediately if we did not adopt the laws today, but it was Friday, which was some optimal deadline for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u226	Thank you. To answer the second part of your question. I followed Article 161. A Rules of Procedure that says an emergency procedure can call a session to prevent the harmful consequences arising from the work of bodies and organisations. My assessment is that the legislative, executive and judicial authority should begin to function as soon as possible in our country. By acting on this article, I've made a call. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u227	I'm not happy, Madam President, since we're probably reading different rules of procedure. This article in 161 refers to the possibility of the law being passed by emergency procedure, not the session being convened by an emergency procedure. You have deceived some MPs here who do not read the Rules of Procedure because someone else is doing it for them, but what is even more dangerous, you have deceived the Serbian public. So you had no right, under Article 161, to call for an emergency session, but to put some draft law on the table at the already called session by emergency procedure, which is what I object to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u228	Thank you. I acted under Article 106 of the basic legal act, the Constitution, which states that the National Assembly is meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the MPs or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda. Acting on Article 106, which is binding, I have just called this session. Dragan Todorovic came to the floor for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic, you were present at a session chaired by the oldest MP before the constitution of the Serbian Parliament, where I warned the chairman and the Serbian Parliament that MPs who, among other things were presidents in this hall. Mrs Djukic, I would also like to draw attention to you that at the beginning of your term as speaker of the Assembly, and that your basic duty is also under the Rules of Procedure, as well as by the Constitution, to make sure that the Serbian Parliament works in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law. You, from the moment you were elected president of the assembly, are responsible for the work of the Serbian Parliament. I don't think it works out for you or your party that, in addition to the obvious violation of the Constitution, you continue with that practice. Because I must warn you that we as a parliamentary group will request the opinion of the Constitutional Court. But, I suppose, not only did your professional services, you had the opportunity to inform yourself from the media, i.e. that you were informed that the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest also announced on this issue and that the undivided opinion that the Constitution is being violated, that some MPs are violating the Constitution, that is Article 102 paragraph 3 where it is very precise – "The MP cannot be an MP in the Parliament of the Autonomous Province, nor a official in the authorities of the executive and judiciary, nor can he perform other functions, tasks and duties for which the law found to be a conflict of interest". The president of the municipality is part of the executive government, and on this point, I'm guessing no one in this room has a dilemma. I suppose it is your interest to prevent this kind of violation of the Constitution and to come up with an undeniable fact that we will come to sooner or later, which is the opinion of the Constitutional Court of Justice on the question that we will ask where it is impossible to make a different decision than simply saying that the MP cannot be a representative of the executive authority at the same time. Then we come into a situation to ask the question – what about all the decisions that have been made and voted on by MPs who cannot be MPs under the Constitution? Then your responsibility in that case is also put in place. I understand that you are, in every way possible, trying to take advantage of this agreement as soon as possible, which you have reached through the Assembly and through certain laws, through the government in every way possible, because the question is how long will it take between you. That motive is legitimate, but you can't break the Constitution and the law. You, as President of the Assembly, must do everything you can to ensure that the Assembly works in a constitutional and legal manner. If you participate in this, or allow yourself to do whatever you are entitled to, you simply bear responsibility, much greater responsibility than those MPs who violate the Constitution. Therefore, I warn you that before you have scheduled this session and every next session, you must make sure that the session of the Assembly is held in the Constitution and the law prescribed. It is obvious that the work of this congregation is not in line with that, and therefore I warn you to do everything possible on the basis of your authority so that this congregation can make legitimate decisions. As long as MPs who are also presidents of the municipality sit in this assembly, all decisions they vote for, even make quorum, and sessions will be illegal and we will require that all decisions of such sessions be annulled in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u230	Thank you. I would like to inform you that I will initiate the procedure for the Serbian Constitutional Court Assembly to be interested in matters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u231	I thank you for running, that's good, but there's one problem, you should have already done it, because what you're going to run, now the question of when you're going to run, when we're going to have a clear and clean situation, and what are we going to do until you start it? You, Mrs. Djukic, have already had to do it. I guess you realize there's no dilemma here. Let any lawyer come out here, ask the professional service, you simply must not allow the work of the Assembly that would be against the law. You've already had to do it, you've had time, and you've been able to get no doubt an expert opinion based on which you would have to inform all MPs that they are in conflict of interest and that they question the legality of work and decisions that such a assembly makes. So this could be your explanation that this is the first day of the Assembly meeting and that you're now saying you're going to start that issue. However, you have already scheduled an extraordinary session, proposed a agenda, you expect MPs who are also presidents of municipalities to vote and thus allow the Assembly to work in an unconstitutional manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u232	Thank you. It is not an obligation for the President of the Assembly to judge and inform about the conflict of interest, but because of the interest in both the public and the correct suggestions you have, we will do what I have already said. The word came from the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, things are not quite as simple as that, meanwhile, have become very complicated. This round and round that began to unwrap Mr. Dragan Todorovic last week is now largely wrapped around some legs and they don't know what to do, keep quiet, what our people would say, are being silly and still dared to share the announcements. Now, you know, I find myself in a situation where with some, I address everyone and all of you in the O.R. I say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and there are some nonexistent MPs, let's say, if one of us should go out on the line of one such, how do I get out on the line of a non-existent MP, to a person who is physically present, and not by Article 102. The Constitution to be. Mr. Todorovic also appealed last week, and then we joined in, to report to the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Performing Public Functions. Mr Beljanski, a member of the Committee, spoke on the subject several times during the week, they made an official statement. I must remind you all, what is it, ladies and gentlemen MPs, among you there are many people from the legal profession, so think about it a little bit, and that you within your MP groups such as, not ignorants, they know it, but simply, what the people would say, "They want both the yoke and the money" to be there and to be there, and to manipulate it. They know it's not even moral, they know it's neither by the Constitution nor by the law, but, well, that's the structure of a person. Remember what came to you with that informer, which was received by the MPs who were elected, says - the information for the MP, in the first article, is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, for the people who first entered this hall, and this is about those who have repeatedly been MPs, then when this could, before the constitution was passed, be the presidents of the municipalities and the MPs, there writes well in that informer – the MP cannot (recorded is Article 102, i.e. Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia) shall be an MP in the assembly of an autonomous province, nor a official in the authorities of the executive and judiciary, nor shall he be able to perform other functions, tasks and duties that have been found by law to constitute a conflict of interest. Were you in a position, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to read the Committee's statement, I don't know, but they said that a long public debate could really be opened on this issue, and they listed only some reason to support this member of the Constitution and their claim that these people could not sit in the assembly benches. You know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic trust certain businesses with municipalities and cities. Just walk away from that base. Every municipality in Serbia, every city, uses transfer funds that come from the Republic and therefore lays down a special law in which cities and municipalities receive an absolute amount. All revenue from a number of taxes, which finance the basic budget of a municipality and a city under the laws passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the direct competence of the budget, is all that the local self-government body has at its disposal as an executive function. I also have to remind you that the president of the municipality, this time elected from the council, that is, the mayor, is a direct mandater for budget spending. In the chapter of the Law on Local Self-Government, which I said would receive the widest possible consensus, because in the working group there was Mrs Radeta from our parliamentary group when voted on by our obligation, before calling local elections, special attention was given to the executive authorities in the local self-government unit, or the city, who these people are and what their rights and obligations are. I can understand that in that vacuum, we had elections for local self-government in 2004, the "Mitrovdan Constitution" was declared on Mitrovica in 2006, and in the last term someone wanted to close their eyes on one eye, so we only had two presidents of the municipality, members of city councils and some other people who were in the executive authorities, but that we held elections for the National Assembly, for local self-government and for an autonomous province, because it was all connected with the prevention, or the inability to find someone, if we respect the Constitution and the law, in conflict of interest, and that all this is happening now in July, or June, it's amazing. So it is not enough for us to say that we are going to raise that and that question, they must immediately respond to the relevant Assembly Committee and the Constitutional Affairs Committee, ultimately the Administrative Committee, because these people, when they verify their mandates, were not at the executive posts in local self-government bodies. We have verified our mandates on 11 June this year. They were post-festum elected to these functions and they were respectful, but apparently did not respect it, the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government had to resign to those functions. We will end up insisting on this issue, because we do not want the most legislative body to function that way and that decision-making legitimacy is given by people who cannot, by law and by the Constitution, be MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u234	I'd like to ask Mrs. Veronica Radet to take her word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u235	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know what on this side of the "bravo" after so many violations of the rules since the very beginning of the constitution of this Parliament, and there's really no excuse for the president of the National Assembly that there's been no time to get to know the Rules of Procedure. As you can see, the MPs who were here, quite a number, have also not been MPs before, so they have already mastered this Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic obviously has no valid explanation for why today is a brutal violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Why did this session have to be scheduled this way? In accordance with article 84, you said, Madam President, that you would give an explanation and you tried to explain to us why on Saturday or on the night between Friday and Saturday you had to deliver material to the MPs, so that we could already participate in the work, of course, by the time the agenda begins, to make certain amendments, if we have, to the professional services, or to the MPs. The least I expected, when you failed to explain it to us, is to explain to us that you did so for reasons of passing the law by an urgent procedure, which was stated in the explanation by the MPs who proposed the ministry law, which is something that concerns us very much. Because, in the light of this proposal for a law, it says – the adoption of the draft law on the ministries under emergency procedure will speed up the work to protect human and minority rights, the impulse will be given to further development of spatial planning and work on projects from the NIP will continue, etc. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, we were expecting you to explain to us, since you are one of the signatories of this proposal, whether you are familiar with something that is not for us MPs, whether and where human and minority rights are being violated in Serbia. We are convinced that this is not in Serbia, that only brutally violates human rights for Serbs in KIM. This explanation of the urgency of adopting this law, that by passing this law to, as you say, speed up the work to protect human and minority rights, is something you are obliged to explain to us. I expect that from the motionor's representatives, but we couldn't find any reasonable solution why we have to work from Saturday night to Saturday. The only explanation I've been expecting is to explain to us exactly what I was just quoting. I'm still expecting an explanation. And, Madam President of the National Assembly, every time a MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to give an explanation. It's not yours to think about how many times a MP needs to be explained. If the MP insists on hurting a member of the Rules of Procedure a hundred times, you are all obliged to explain why you hurt the Rules of Procedure. I am convinced that I will not be satisfied with your answer, and that is why I ask that in the day of the vote, the Assembly be made aware of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as I said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u236	In the day for the vote, the Assembly will declare itself, and now I give my word to Ambassador Shormaz Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u237	Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. We're all obliged to be informed of that. Namely, when the quorum was established, we all saw it, it was so little tense, so you kind of came up to 126. Serbian citizens don't see it in a direct TV broadcast, they see only the screen, as we do here, and they don't know whether or not the quorum is established. It was established that one opposition party, which is not DSS and New Serbia, gave the quorum to the newly established assembly majority for the start of this session's work. Of course, it's their right to do something like that. But I'm interested in whether or not we've come to this situation to struggle over the quorum because, let's say, Mr. Ivica Dacic is away from the session and where he is. Is it on the Socialist International or something? Is it possible that such a thing, is it possible for Mr. Ivica Dacic to be more important than a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where these very important laws should be passed, and we have seen the responsible behaviour of the MPs who had to return quickly from Strasbourg where, also in haste and intermittent, it is non-business, as it is now, the scheduled session of the Assembly. Instead of discussing there and having our delegation present while talking about human trafficking, about kidnapped Serbs, about organ trafficking, they came here to attend a session of the National Assembly. I can't believe Mr Dacic's session of the Socialist International, or something, is more important than the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is it possible that he and his party will behave in the coming period, that they will take more care of some international institutions than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u238	I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure on the topics you've explained. I'd like Dr. Zarko Obradovic's MP to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u239	I'd like to ask Mr. Shormaz not to mention Mr. Dacic. There is no reason for such a thing, and I will be at your disposal today and these days when you want to talk about SPS policy, but I will suggest to Mr Dacic that he always contact Mr Shormaz in the future to ask him if he can go somewhere and if he gets the consent to do so, and if not, to be there, at his disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u240	Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u241	There's no reason for me to hear from Mr. Dacic. He is not obliged to report to me, but he is obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia what he has done, what he is doing, because he is a national MP, predicating to enter the government of Cvetkovic-Dacic. So, he is obliged to speak to the citizens of Serbia, and this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is a high home that is elected by citizens and is obliged to say whether it is a more important session of the National Assembly or a session of the Socialist International. I asked him where he was, and I'm interested in him as a MP, and I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. So, he is obliged to tell Serbian citizens what is more important to him, whether it is more important for the SPS to be found in the Socialist International or more important to make decisions in this National Assembly and whether the SPS needs LDP to put in his cards in order to have a quorum to work, and that he is walking through Europe and being in Internacional. So there's no need for Dacic to keep me informed. I understand that Dacic issued all the votes he received from the SPS and did the opposite of what the citizens who voted for the SPS in these elections wanted, but my job as an opposition MP will be to prove it every day in this assembly and thank Mr Dacic for allowing me to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u242	Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since in the previous discussion one MP noted that the DSS and New Serbia did not give the quorum, to say that neither did the SRS MPs. I can't not say how life plays with things. I remember the time when the rule was in force – DOS plus Bane, and now there is another rule – former DOS plus former Chad; it seems that the winged "depends on us" comes to terms. However, it is a legitimate right, I have no objection, everyone has the right to act as he thinks fit at a given moment, and normally, we all come one day to the citizens of Serbia where we will have the opportunity to get that assessment from them. I've called in Article 98. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mrs Djukic, to draw attention to your position 2. says: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion." I am now warning you, Mrs. Djukic, that this is a serious question that we have asked. The issue of breaking the Constitution is one of the most serious issues. I just can't say what would be more important than that question. It's so obvious that you'll allow us to break the Constitution, I don't think we should give you any further explanations. You can, on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, suspend the work of the Assembly's session, especially when you have in mind the fact that the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was voted by DOS MPs, without the SPS, gives him the right to consider issues of conflict of interest in such matters and to give his opinion. The chairman of that committee and the Committee gave that opinion. So there's no more dilemma whether or not the Constitution is broken, so the Constitution is broken. We are now in a situation that you as President of the Assembly, although you have all the information, and you are also aware of the fact that the Constitution is being violated, or whether you will allow the Constitution to be violated, or whether the decisions of the Assembly are legitimate. I must tell you, Mrs Đukić, that it will not be a good thing to continue the practice of the work of this assembly as it has been until now, by handling one single motive – it is useful for us, let us finish as soon as possible in order to do some things that will benefit those who are currently in power. I remind you, today, in one list, I will not make his name known, not to be advertised, a transcript is listed, or a listening conversation between Solana and Wesley Clarke. This time I give recognition to Director BIA Radet Bulatovic for getting the courage to deliver this information to a daily newspaper, where it can be seen unequivocally that it is trafficking in human organs, drug trafficking, because it is said here that "he is counting because Kosovo is swarming with drug traffickers". Also, I'll quote you next. Solana says, "It's all CIA operatives. They only care about drugs and their jobs." I'll skip a piece of the text, and then Wesley Clarke says she needs to get to KIM urgently, and she says, "We need to transfer the cargo to Fort Bregg. It's not that urgent, is it? You mean the organs? '"He says, "Yes, it's good for Bondsteel." We have also expressed our suspicion here that Bondsteel is for the extraction of human organs from the kidnapped Serbs, which are still being sold worldwide. I now remind you that you have invited us, beware, invited us from Strasbourg, immediately scheduled a session of the Assembly, in addition to the Rules of Procedure, and on the agenda, and not at the request of someone from the Serbian delegation, but of the Russian delegation, the Committee was to discuss the trafficking of human organs and to determine the rapporteur. It's obvious, because the information is unequivocal and accurate, that our organs are our organs. This suggests that they had all the information about the sale of the organs of the kidnapped Serbs, and someone was in the interest of preventing it. Here, I'll give you proof that that's the case. Solana tells Clark that he doesn't care at all about Belgrade's and says, "Don't worry, he'll be obedient. Those in Belgrade are much more obedient, even than those in Podgorica." It also speaks of a puppet government that came to power in Serbia in 2001 and completely destroyed Serbia. But, Mrs. Djukic, I won't tell you anything else, you're a doctor and you should follow some ethical laws that we have to take care of, and you have to take care of. You must not allow the session of the Serbian Parliament to continue, because you know that in this assembly the presidents of municipalities who are also MPs and thanks to their votes will make unconstitutional decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u244	I thank you for your suggestion that I apply Article 2 98. I'd like to inform you that I have no reason to accept it, given that I'm not assessing whether the constructive consultation you're proposing would be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u245	I'd like you to explain to me what you wanted to say? I really don't understand. I've made and made claims about certain things. You're talking to me about article 98. I am talking to you about the right that you have on the basis of the Rules of Procedure – to interrupt the session of the Assembly, and you are talking to me about things that are absolutely not about what is important, and these are MPs who are also presidents of the municipalities and whose votes, first of all, are allowed by the presence of the Serbian Parliament. If they participate in the work, it violates the Constitution and all decisions made with the help of their votes are nothing, Mrs. Djukic. Therefore, this only allows you to correct the way the Serbian Parliament began to work. I strongly recommend that you, as president, do not allow yourself to start working like this at first – I draw your attention to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u246	Thank you. Sasa Milenić answered the words. He has the word Mr. Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u247	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am reporting by the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Rule 225, on the right of Members of the People's Parliament, but also on the general public, to full information on essential issues of importance for the work of this high house. During the constitutional session of the National Assembly, the public was particularly irritated by the proclaimed thesis of the incompatibility of the executive office in local self-government and national MPs. At the same time, this thesis was masked with a descriptive concept – conflict of interest. That's what happened in today's session. Although the MP spoke of the incompatibility of the executive and legislative authorities, even the speaker of the assembly said something about it under the term "conflict of interest", already someone will decide. As I belong to a political organization called "Together for Kragujevac", which is pleased and honored to participate in the work of the National Assembly within the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, I believe that I will also have these ideas of decentralisation of the state and society, which is dedicated to my political organisation, as well as to the G17 Plus, in this particular case I will be able to make an eclative, extremely important observation. First, conflict of interest is a legal category defined in our legal system by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the exercise of public functions and there is, however, no slight connection to the topic that is being opened. Because conflict of interest defines the relationship between private business and the relationship of a public figure and its public function, which is defined to prevent an interestingly motivated privatisation of public function. One who believes that the deputy mayor, mayor, vice-president of the municipality or the president of the municipality is in conflict of interest because of the role of the MP, should therefore consider that at least one of these functions is his private obligation or function. Actually, it's two public functions. So, just as it was discussed, someone wanted to talk about the conflict of jurisdiction, about the incompatibility of functions. It's a whole other topic. The constitution defines it very precisely in the incompatibility of the executive and legislative authority. The concept of executive authority in constitutional matter was defined, so to speak, at the very beginning of our Constitution, through the principle of dividing power into legislative, executive and judicial. That will explicitly say it's a division of power in the state. Let me inform you, local self-government is not a state body. Local self-government is closer to the civil sector than to the state and government organisations. The local self-government to this end is not a state body or at least it shouldn't be. Local self-government employees, in the administration, even under the country's positive regulations, do not have the status of employees in state authorities. I repeat, employees of local self-government do not have the status of employees in state authorities, precisely because local self-government is not an extended government arm, even if someone wants to see it that way, because local self-government is not a subsidiary of the government and the central authorities of the state, but has just guaranteed the right of citizens to local self-government, as a kind of government independent, a public service organisation. It's a substance that's difficult to explain to a monocentric consciousness complex. I have no illusions that I will succeed, because such a monocentric assembly significantly reduces the image of reality, which you have been particularly expressing these days with a metaphor of the 'Semafor Coalition'. The fact that you see only three colors in that coalition speaks of limited perception abilities. It's about the color of life, which your reduced picture of reality not only doesn't arrive to notice, but it can't stand it. It's not what I'm talking about, but, I repeat, the point is, what I'm asking the President of the National Assembly to do is not to confuse the public with a false thesis about the existence of some anti-constitutional composition of the National Assembly. What individual committees think about it is free to say, but only competent to determine the fact that the Constitution is a constitutional court.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u248	Before I give my word to Mrs Gordani Pop-Lazic, allow me to remind all of us of Article 100 of Article 2 which states that the MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with which he can speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. I thank you in advance and ask Mrs. Gordan Pop-Lazic to speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u249	Dear fellow Members of the People, I would not like to further elaborate on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was referred to by the chairman of the SRS parliamentary group, because I really have nothing to add, but I would like to draw your attention to the importance of your function once again, perhaps at the beginning of taking over your function. If you look at the Constitution, and I believe that you've dealt with it and how you've dealt with it, you're not new to political life, but the Fifth Part of the Constitution, which talks about governing power, puts the National Assembly first, and only after the President of the Republic and Government, as the holders of the executive government. So, I live for that day, and I believe all those who swear to democracy and a well-organized democratic and modern society, when the Prime Minister will tremble at the door of the office or the cabinet of the President of the Assembly. Many of us here were both in executive and legislative power, and we know the difference between one and the other role, but we are indeed inaccessible because we are bearers of national sovereignty, because in the first article (98). As for the National Assembly, it says that the National Assembly is the most representative body, so we are citizens of Serbia in small and bearers of constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia, we are the ones who cannot allow anyone to manipulate us. It is clear to us that the congregation's majority wants to be elected as soon as possible, but what is the difference between today and, possibly, Friday, which is five days ahead of us? The state will not lose anything, and we will also show that future government, which is very important, and also to the people, to stick to the letters of the Constitution, because many of them, and the President of the Assembly swears to the Constitution, and we, too, bearers of the executive government. I believe that there is little inexperience from the president of the National Assembly, that many of us carry a much greater cross in life than we can. You probably remember that old story from the Bible, when a troubled man complained to God that it was very difficult for him in his life, and he said to him, "The more you took the bigger cross than you could carry" and showed him, after he had exposed a dozen of those to him, "Come on, tell me, who would take it." Then he measured his strength and chose precisely for him who could bear ease and go through life with ease, and then Jesus said to him, "Yes, that's exactly what I intended for you, but you took the wrong one." So let's evaluate our strengths, evaluate our options, what we can and how much we can. We are not afraid to protect what we must protect, thus protecting our function alone. Mrs Dejanović-Djukic would not have fallen into the unkindness of the future government or the future parliamentary majority if she had said – excuse me, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, if we wanted to interpret them properly, because on the matter of holding a session, everything relates to the session of the extraordinary appointment as well as to the regular one. We're only on that date when it's an emergency session. It is clear to all of us that we have scheduled a session in a way that we should not have, that the President of the Assembly did, that we were in a situation that we worked from the SRS parliamentary club yesterday, we were able to write amendments, to get acquainted with both laws and to participate in the work of the Legislative Committee today, it seems to me, in an appropriate way, to make our contribution to the work of that committee, but other MPs, believe me, are not. They simply weren't in a position to take the material and get acquainted with the bill's proposals yesterday and the day before. So it's no big deal and admit it's a mistake. I believe you can't do that at this point, you've started the session, but for future reference, you're second in the state. That's how you fell for it, see that you're acting like one, otherwise let someone else do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u250	Thank you. The word was answered by Professor. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u251	Thank you. A colleague, Dragan Shormaz, violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. 101st and 104s spoke about SPS President Ivica Dacic, in one particularly negative context, which I think is, firstly, not true, and secondly, not correct, because Mr Dacic is not there. When Mr. Dacic comes, then Mr. Shormaz can tell him everything he has. I can only see that Mr. Shormaz did not make such comments in 2004 when the SPS supported the minority government of DSS-NS and other coalition partners. There were no comments like this at the time. Why is he having them now? Judge for yourselves. We are likely to come to an end today through this debate on the law on ministries and government on these political relations in Serbia, as who said and wrote or did to make these relations better or worse. To mention Mr. Dacic in this context in which he was mentioned is really not correct. As for his absence, he, like any other MP, informed the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the Rules of Procedure that an MP should also inform about the reasons for his absence, he will likely, as well as others, do so. If Mr Shormaz doesn't like that the SPS delegation with other fellow Members of the People's Parliament and other parties are participating together in the work of the Socialist International, he has the right to direct the protest to the main committee of our party and the Socialist International. They will certainly consider and make the right decision in relation to this protest. As for the beginning of today's session of the Assembly, if it were not scheduled in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we would not even be discussing these topics today and there would be no harm to the Rules of Procedure. So much for the majority and the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u252	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u253	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 101. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it is the right to reply, since several speakers for this speaker mentioned either the LDP parliamentary group or myself personally. Of course, first of all, I would like to tell you, Madam President, that you are partly responsible for the way the new session begins. The first, constitutive, was chaotic, compromising for the new assembly of Parliament. This second one doesn't suggest a better outcome at first, and that's what's wrong. I fear that during the day, we will all come together to what one of the opposition MPs proposed at the beginning when he asked for consultations to remove the misunderstandings without which, apparently, this assembly cannot continue to work in a normal way. That is exactly what we want, we want to unblock Parliament and in such a way as to affirm this institution, so that it no longer becomes what it is today, and that is only the service of the ruling majority. That is why we have done what we think is the obligation of our MPs, which is – we have allowed the beginning of this debate. This is not supporting the authorities, it is not supporting the ruling majority. We'll vote against the laws on the agenda, but if that's what we need to say from this pay phone, then we'll do it in the future. The LDP parliamentary group will in no way benefit parliament from blocking the institution's practical pro-longing decision making. We are confident that the ruling majority is forming on bad principles. In that belief, we are also strengthened by the laws that we will discuss today. We do not think that after so many lost years Serbia can afford the kind of political rerun that has made of us the most unfortunate country of Europe at this time. So, the harsh opposition, but in a different way than what has been the case in Parliament so far. We regard the quorum as our parliamentary obligation, and by no obligation to support the ruling coalition. I warn you, Madam President, that in this way Parliament will not create a better picture and be more efficient than that parliament that is disbanded by the election calling in March of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u254	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Faith of Radeth, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as well. The provision of Article 104, which I am advertising, says: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons." We in the SRS know perfectly what all the MPs can say, how they should and can address their colleagues in this parliament, the citizens of Serbia. We are all here to convey the views of those citizens who voted for our political options. We can express our political views and that, as much as they once seemed to be offensive, they don't actually go out with Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. When I say that this colleague I don't see in the O.R. right now, I apologize, I didn't remember his name, that he was the man who tried to defend indefensibly here, who tried to defend the Kragujean twin criminals Verko and Young, then that's not an insult. That's how I express our political position. We know that it is, but, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it is simply amazing that you did not react when you were just a representative of this pair of thieves, Verko Plus Mladja, here presented such attitudes and assessments in relation to the MPs. It seems to me, I don't want to interfere with your profession, that it even represented some specific names from the area you're dealing with. It didn't occur to you to react, to give this gentleman a warning because of what he took out of this place. We know, of course, that you, apart from that coalition agreement that you have not signed yet, have committed yourself to much, you have obviously committed yourself to Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to suffer for you to be in that place and that you are putting up with all the criticisms of the MPs. Don't overdo it. I don't think your coalition will be threatened, and I wouldn't be threatened if you'd warned that gentleman earlier that he couldn't speak up like that. The fact that he doesn't know what state administration is, what state self-government is, that's his problem. The point is that he tried to defend the fact that there is a deal between the future government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Mladjan Dinkic in the government, and Veroljub Stevanovic in Kragujevac as representative, i.e. the president of local self-government. It is something that is an internal matter of the future government of the Republic of Serbia and these and such presidents of municipalities, or local self-government, but I repeat, you had to react and warn the gentleman who spoke earlier. We don't mind him coming out and trying to explain that we're not right about interpreting conflicts of interest, but that he's assessing someone's consciousness, someone's mind, is really inadmissible. If that's how we perform from this place, we know a lot, and we're willing to say, of course, we're going to say, we don't have any restrictions when it comes to putting out our political views... As you can see, we don't have a problem telling someone that he's making some kind of a thieving deal, and they're probably now asking the citizens of Kragujevac what they voted for that two, when there's still nothing from the Fiat in Kragujevac, but that's also a topic for another debate, for another part of the agenda. I expect you, Madam President of the National Assembly, now that I've warned you, perhaps you didn't know what it says in Article 104 a moment ago to give a warning to that gentleman who doesn't have the guts to sit in this room, to hear what we're going to say about his little earlier raving from this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u256	I thank and ask all the MPs of the people to respect Article 104 who says that the MPs are obliged to respect dignity and to address one another with respect. I'd like to ask Mr. Shormaz, who answered for the replica to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u257	I agree with you, Madam Chairman, but then you should have warned Mr. Zarko Obradovic when he said it wasn't exactly what I said. What's wrong? After that, he confirmed that Ivica Dacic and the SPS delegation are at the Socialist International. I'm right-handed, I'm not interested in it, I've never been interested in it, and I've never taken care of it. It is true that Ivica Dacic is there with the delegation, it is obvious that there are still some MPs from the SPS, it is true that this is more important to him than the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is true that you have failed to return. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic here I did not respect the LDP's right to do so, if you called on what I said, yes, once I mentioned the LDP, although I heard Mr. Dacic on Friday when he asked Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic to give the quorum today, as he travels to Internacional, so on Friday, I knew what will happen today, but that's LDP law, only it can't be said that you don't participate in power if you give a 126 vote to pass any law. And as for Mr. Dacic, Mr. Obradovic, as long as he is in the government of Cvetkovic – Daček, which he has formed and he will control in the next period of Washington, every day I will call him from this pay phone, and you have no right to tell me and to respect my right as an opposition MP. As for 2004, you can only get praise for it. You supported the government, which passed 266 European laws, praised by the EU, supported the government that brought several KIM declarations, and you supported the government, which at the time delivered some 16 people to The Hague, voluntarily, because it was a smarter policy than the arrest, and you supported the government that brought the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So you were in most of the Assembly that adopted the new Constitution. Therefore, Mr. Obradovic, for 2004, you can only get praise. Now this is what your members tell me, after every speech I get a dozen messages, a betrayal of the SPS electoral body. That's a fact, you'll face it. It's a fact and you can't avoid it. So, Mr. Obradovic, Ivica Dacic is more important to the Socialist International than Serbia, from the citizens of Serbia and from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u258	Thank you. Replica, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had a chance to hear a speech a few minutes ago, and from all we could hear, it was obvious that the man was an expert. There is no dilemma, no government matter, and not just once, but almost all areas are absolutely available to him. I have to say that we in the SRS love experts very much and we try to keep them as much as possible. There's a folk method, you know what it's called, Meso knows. It's a method that we've worked out, which is almost scientific, that allows the experiment to be much more. A certain procedure applies and an expert starts yelling like a young monkey. The best shown by Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal, see those experts, Obershal, Ridlmeyer, Secretariat, witnesses. And Micun, Micun still screams when things are mentioned. When an expert is exaggerating, then it's time for the ears to spin a little bit. Please make sure that you speak of the essence of whether or not the Constitution is broken. That's the basic thing. Don't try to defend what's impossible, you defend yourself not to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u260	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic answered his words, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u261	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what a man to say after this beauty. I can never think, nor can it occur to me to say what I have heard of Tomislav Nikolic. That's the difference between me and her. Tomislav Nikolic grew up next to me and I can only say something nice about his moral qualities, and I know that if I needed blood, that he would give me and he knows that I would give him. Just because we're political opponents doesn't mean that this is how we treat each other. I had a chance last year to hear from this pay phone on my own account of a story like this. I couldn't answer, I wrote a letter to the president of the assembly, I warned him about it. So this criminal standing before you won the previous elections, a leading list called "Veroljub-Verko Stevanović - G17 Plus - Together for Kragujevac" and we got almost half the votes compared to all of you big ones. That's what the Kragujevci think of me. So that's what's important. You, not that you've hurt Article 104, but you've said the ugliest thing a man can say and you haven't blinked, and I won't say anything to you. Why the ambassador and the mayor? That's a special question. We think that not only is it not a conflict of interest, it has nothing to do with conflict of interest, but it is important that the man who has received a certain mandate here can and should be easier to end up for his city than not to be. The fact that I was at 6:00 this morning at work, and I'm probably going to leave after this, my Kragujevci know that, so I'm going to do it. So, what's the most important? To make a bigger city out of the city of the future, and remember when you talked about me from this pay phone about what you said, ugly about me, then Kragujevac had an epithet of "the valley of hunger". Now in Kragujevac, the square meter of housing is the most expensive after Belgrade, the country's most expensive after Belgrade, a city that is second in all after Belgrade. That's the answer to all your questions and all your dilemmas or trilems. Let's choose government, let's not do trivial things and let's say this for the citizens I don't take two salaries, people, my salary down here is less than yours. I'm here with more effort because I think, not only do I, but there are 15 of us, that we can do certain jobs better because we're closer to the authorities than we are here, so, come on, that this is, or not, we're not turning the subject but we're asking the Constitutional Court, so if the Constitutional Court says that's the case, it's normal that we're not going to be there. So thank you, Mrs. Radeta, and shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u262	The word came from Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u263	Mr. Stevanović, as a multiple blood donor, I'm giving blood to the unknown and not only to you, so I don't ask a question at all when I'm giving blood to anyone who's going through it, so God forbid you need it, you know there's something else in this discussion of yours. First, your presence in the National Assembly, not wanting, revealed the reasons for your presence. Now I'm like a man who's really tied to a Kragujevac I should keep quiet, because this Kragujevac will get something. One hundred and sixty municipalities in Serbia – can we bring all the presidents of the municipalities here? Do we have a council president on whom they will face their opinions, so that they can decide which municipality they receive? You're here on a terrible advantage, Mr. Stevanovic. Here you are with your present presence, when there were 125 MPs in the O.R., and you, one hundred twenty-six, and that fellow of yours, one hundred and twenty-seven, were able to get some money for the city's budget, to use it perfectly properly, but to get it even though others may have nothing to do with it. It's that conflict of interest. There are controls that would control how you spend that money, but you are here at the source, Mr. Stevanovic, and when we pass the budget law and when you decide on the percentage of the participation of certain municipalities on taxes achieved on their territories, so how is it going to be if people who are directly interested in their vote here depend on everything? It's incompatible for you to sit here as mayor in this National Assembly and be a National MP. As far as the salary is concerned, I was a councilman when we couldn't get you to respect the legal basis, to pay in Kragujevac. You've been pushing some spite here and you've been a full-time MP, even though the president of the municipality had to be on the payroll in Kragujevac, and you've never received two, and of course that would be incompatible with morale. As for crime, Mr. Stevanovic, on crime in Kragujevac, on spending the budget in a criminal manner in Kragujevac, we have heard everything from the "yellows" of the Democratic Party from this pay phone. No one here but the "yellow" has ever attacked you for being a criminal, never, no other MP. The information Mrs Radeta has, she does not live in Kragujevac, comes from the top of the Democratic Party in Kragujevac, which comes out here for a pay phone and talks about it. So, never a radical president of the municipality will sit here, whether we're in power or in opposition is absolutely irrelevant. There are ways for the government to punish the municipalities in which the opposition is in power, but it's always being fought against by the authorities. I wish you success in running Kragujevac, because you have taken a big cookie by promising to "Fiyat" us to produce, it will raise both Kragujevac and Serbia. If not, Mr. Stevanovic, then you are a participant in many lies and deceptions that Dinkic poured on Serbia whenever he needed votes. I advise you, press him till the end, don't build ski resorts at the altitude at which my Bajcetina is at, and then the snow stays only for three or five days, but that what he promised the citizens of Kragujevci, who in the last five days have broken in your favor, that it must be fulfilled. If you meet that I want you to rule most of the Kragujevci, I want it to be a recipe for all of Serbia, but I'm not too sure. You don't know who you're with, Mr. Stevanovic, who you're in the coalition with. You know, everything he's attributed to falls on you only because you're in that shadow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u264	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, even the other day, in that previous debate, I warned you about this particular information, this fact on good faith, of course, believing that you would consider it and that by this session, the problem, which is objectively standing before the National Assembly and the citizens of Serbia, will be resolved. In fact, the Constitution here is unequivocal, no matter how individuals interpret the Constitution, in its own way. The National MP cannot also be the president of the municipality, or mayor at the same time. The president of the municipality can't be a MP. There is an obvious conflict of interest, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has declared itself. Now, which is a problem for you, because then you won't have a quorum, at least for a while, until other MPs on the same list appear, and until their mandate is verified in this assembly, that's another story. If this is how you started, Mrs. Djukic, how do you think we'll end up if the second day at the first session you start with a drastic violation of both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution? I don't think this is going anywhere. Gentlemen Mayors, if you have any honors and you must not violate the Constitution, withdraw! I know a man who is also the president of the municipality and a MP who said he resigned, so why, Mrs. Djukic, isn't that resignation verified today? There are at least three more, I know three more, about four mayors know they're in parliamentary benches. Why can't the mayors "and the goat and the money"? Exactly, Mr. Stevanovic, because you said here, from this pay phone, you can't be the mayor and the MP, because as a MP, you will decide on the level of participation in the state budget, precisely for a city whose mayor you are. He can't, Mr. Stevanovic. Of course, it's not just the conflict of interest and because the Constitution is being violated, it's not just that, there's something called morality. No president of the SRS municipality will be an MP and no SRS MP will be the head of the municipality; he will resign to one of those posts before he becomes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're just going to talk about the time that's coming, and the way things are, it seems to me like a pretty dark time is coming for Serbia. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr. Dragan Todorovic gave you a proposal on how to get out of this galamatijas where you've been put. Take a break, go to consultations with the heads of parliament, find a way to get past this, ask the mayor to resign, let other people come from their lists and take over their mandates, and let's keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u266	As for the resignation you mentioned, I'd like to inform the public that the resignations are referred first to the Administrative Board, and then they're going to the RIK. We're not supposed to discuss it here. Thank you. I give my word to Mrs. Verity Radetti, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u267	It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr. Stevanovic is having a dilemma about what the Constitutional Court's decision is going to be, because he said so himself – we will see what the Constitutional Court will decide, and then after that he will comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Whatever thanks to the "yellow" dictator, Boris, Broz, Tadic, you have a regimeal Constitutional Court, you have a party Constitutional Court, believe there is no lawyer and that judge who will decide contrary to Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So it is indisputable for every lawyer, intern, that there is a conflict of interest when it comes to MPs who are also presidents of the municipalities. The question that Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic has not yet answered is what will happen not if, but when the Constitutional Court makes such a decision? Then you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, are not the president of the assembly. Then you, when you pass the law amending the Law on Government and Ministry, you will not have those laws. Then, when you choose the government in the meantime, you won't have a government, and that government will make decisions that will include spending people's money and closing some contracts and international contracts, and I don't know what. The question you did not answer, and you disobeyed Mr. Dragan Todorovic's proposal to take a break and ask the Constitutional Court to resolve this dilemma as quickly as possible, is – whose responsibility will it be? Are you willing to take that responsibility upon yourself because of everything that will arise as a consequence of decisions that will be made without a quorum in this House, because it is undeniable and clear to all? Mr. Stevanović, you put the question so pompously here yourself, you said – why both the president of the municipality and the MP? You wanted to explain why you were both together. Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained to you that you yourself discovered why you are, in fact, an MP and president of the town of Kragujevac, but there is something else. In some of your relationships with Dinkic, you have made it possible for your party to have a problem, by giving Dinkic a number from his quota to you, so that when the Constitutional Court finds that you cannot be a MP, and that is undeniable, you no longer have a candidate on your list to replace you. That's your problem, but letting Dinkic cheat on you, that's how he'll cheat on you for "Fiat," so he'll cheat, along with you, citizens of Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u268	Mr. Jovan Damjanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u269	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say, as a citizen of this Serbia and as a folk MP, that from the constitutional session of the National Assembly to today, the situation is more permanent, every day, more confusing and confusing. I mean, at the first constitutive session, it's not clear to me today, and also to many MPs here, when it was national and state interest for our delegation to be in the European Parliament and to be factual and reasoned, it shows that the most radical and most difficult killings in Kosovo took place – that the authorities of the Serb people, even Roma, have information, and other non-Albanian living, have been extracting and selling in Albania under the influence of international organisations, we withdraw the delegation, come here to the assembly, and we have had two days here a terrible one assembly, which, in my opinion, has not produced any results. We pulled a delegation not to say what happened, and it is our country's interest to point out Europe, Europe needs to know what serious crimes, killings, were happening in Kosovo and how the authorities of our people from Kosovo were being sold. Who is competent and responsible for returning the delegation? We did not show Europe and the world there, and there was nothing in this delegation, it must be known who is competent for the absolute violation of the Constitution in our country, and we did not give all the elements and facts of what was happening in Kosovo, which is a terrible crime. It's something inconceivable to me. Today, when some decisions are to be made, the SRS certainly has no problem making decisions that our Parliament can work, the government of Serbia is also in place, and we today have controversy and confusion, breach of the Rules of Procedure. In order not to continue entering such dialogues that do not bring us results, I suggest, as well as my predecessors, that the session be interrupted, that the heads of Parliament be called to consult so that the Assembly can deliver a result.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u270	In the meeting of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which was convened at the request of 122 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted by 122 MPs, and 2. Proposal for a law on ministries, submitted by 122 MPs. On the basis of Article 90(3) and Article 140(2), the People's MP, Nada Kolundji. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on: a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted by 122 MPs, and a proposal for a law on ministries, which was submitted by 122 MPs. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. For 104 against five, it did not vote 6, out of 115 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal because there were no 126 MPs and I am setting a break of one hour. [[After break – 15,15]] We're continuing our work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (principles) Dear Members, you have received a bill of amendments to the Law on Government, which was submitted by 122 MPs. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the MEP group "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica - 36 minutes; the G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MP group of the SPS coalition - PUPS - JS - 24 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds and the Minority Group – 8 minutes and 24 seconds. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word, with a order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, MP Bosko Ristic, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, members of the presidency, we have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the Government Act. The law was passed and proposed in line with the constitutional basis that the Republic of Serbia regulates the position and authority of the government and organises the authority of the administration in order to exercise power. The constitutional basis lies in Article 135. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the government of the Republic of Serbia is governed by law. Otherwise, Serbia has a valid Government Act under which the government exercises its powers, but it was necessary to propose an amendment to this law because it would be more precise to regulate the position and authority of the Deputy Prime Minister, or the first Vice-President, Deputy Prime Minister. This proposal establishes that the first Deputy Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, will be appointed by the Prime Minister who, in his absence or in the event of his prevention, will have the authority to manage the Government, direct the government's policy and co-ordinate the work between individual ministries in the Government. This bill defines the way decisions are made in the government itself, and in case the government has an even number of members. Political practice shows that governments that have an even number of members can often go into crisis precisely when making decisions, which can prevent the normal functioning of the government. For reasons of functionality, for reasons of political and legal certainty, it is necessary to address one such situation, just like this solution, which is not unknown in parallel legal practice. I must tell you that it is proposed that the Prime Minister has the right to vote in the government itself, i.e. that the government's decision will be deemed to have been made in the event that at least one half of the government votes for it if the Prime Minister is in that half. Such comparative legal practice is known, for example, in Slovenia, Croatia, in some other countries, but also in our domestic practice. The Constitutional Court in its Rules of Procedure has the same provision, where, in the event of a vote-sharing on certain key issues, decisions are considered to be made in case the President voted for it. This situation is also foreseen in the functioning of the judiciary. All the judicial councils in the decision-making process, in the event of an election and voting, have such a solution when making court decisions. In case votes are split within the court council, the decision will be considered if the president of the judicial council voted for it. Therefore, this is an option that is in line with the Constitution, which is not opposed to it and is in line with comparative and domestic legal practice. It is also proposed that this law enter into force before the eighth day of its publication. The reasons for such a decision lie in that Serbia has passed the election process, that it is necessary to establish all three branches of government, it is necessary for Serbia to get a government with full powers, because the existing, technical government does not have certain constitutional powers, since it is in a situation where there is no full mandate because new elections have been made. Of course, such a solution should establish better legal and political security, above all for the citizens of Serbia, for better functioning of the authorities' bodies and there is no obstacle to such a law being passed. It will be a solution that will be valid in the future, as it will certainly be necessary and perhaps necessary to form governments that will have an even number of members. Let me remind you that some ministries in the current government are the result of some of the current needs and political circumstances in which Serbia is located – the Ministry of Kosovo, the Ministry of European Integration, therefore, are ministries, and there will be others who will surely have to be included in the government's composition. In order not to provide the majority of decisions in such a way as to form new ministries and thus to get new members of the government just because of an odd number of members, I think one such solution is fully functional, political and legally justified. The implementation of this law does not require any additional financial resources. That's how much I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u273	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Mr Aleksandar Martinović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dr Nebojsa Rangelović, Mirko Munjic, Judita Popović, Zoran Krasic and Boris Aleksic, who held an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? He's got Mrs. Radet's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's no wonder that, apparently, fellow Ristic was uncomfortable to explain something he didn't believe in. In this regard, he also spoke to the Legislative Committee, on which I and my other colleagues in the SRS issued an opinion, explained, a colleague, that the legal basis for proposing this law is in Article 135. The RS Constitution, and a member of 135, says: "The government is governed by law". None of us on the Committee had any objection that the government should be passed a law, namely that this future government needs to change or supplement the Government Act that exists. That, of course, would never be questioned. It is that through this proposal of the government that you have received, fellow MPs, and I hope that you have had time to read in the meantime, this is a short bill, but not a shorter law or more violations of the Constitution... Of course, we are used to Boris Tadic breaking the constitution since he entered the post he has, and this continues intensively these days. Yes, colleague Milivojevic, the president of your party daily violates the Constitution in the way he tries to form the government and how he gives himself the right to choose ministers, etc., but that's something we'll talk about when the time comes. I am now speaking as a member of the Legislative Committee and I draw attention to my fellow Members that we have an absolutely unconstitutional law in front of us, or a bill on amendments to the Government Act. What did the Legislative Committee do? I will remind the Members of the People's Parliament of Article 45 which speaks of the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee, where it says: "The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act, which is addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposal for the adoption of authentic interpretation"... etc. We're not interested in this other part right now. As we have a report you have seen, you have all received in front of you this afternoon a report from the Legislative Committee, which also signed by a lawyer from counterpart Vlatko Ratkovic, where he says - a report based on Article 79. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What does Article 79 say? Rules of Procedure? The member says the board decides most of the votes present on the draft law at the session. First, a principle search is conducted, and after the search is completed, access to the vote, etc. Therefore, there is no legal basis which speaks of the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee contained in Article 45 of our Rules of Procedure. It was really necessary, colleague Ratkovic, at least to make sure that what you're trying to do, so flagrantly breaking the law, the Constitution, our Rules of Procedure, how much-so-called business that this seems to make sense and that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So you signed that the Committee had considered the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Government and proposed that the National Assembly accept it in principle. This is not the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee at all. I know that on this topic my colleague Martinovic will speak in detail and that is why I will no longer engage. I understand why colleague Ratkovic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, gave such a clumsy and blurry, otherwise we never received a report from the Legislative Committee. Each time, the report was based on which member of the Rules of Procedure this report was adopted. Why don't we have it here? Because a colleague knows he can't say that the report was brought on the basis of Article 45 of our Rules of Procedure, because he can't as a lawyer let himself sign that it's in accordance with the Constitution that has nothing to do with the Constitution, which is totally unconstitutional. Of course, we'll talk about this in detail, I've already spent five minutes as much as I can on this basis, of course, in the principle debate and the amendments detailing this violation of the Constitution. Please, fellow Members of Parliament, look at these members of the Rules of Procedure that I have quoted, see Rule 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and you will see that you have proposed something that is absolutely unconstitutional. You allowed yourself the luxury of introducing Serbia into a completely unconstitutional state. Because, you know, it's not just a state in an unconstitutional state when there's no Constitution, but also when it's so flagrantly, brutally, in the most cruel way possible it violates the Constitution. Don't allow yourself at least you lawyers and don't embarrass the legal profession and the legal science.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u275	I thank Mrs. Radetti. I give my word to Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic, a member of the Legislative Committee, who also issued an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u276	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, as a representative of the LDP in the Legislative Committee, I have singled out my opinion for procedural and essential reasons. I wouldn't repeat the procedural reasons, because they were already spoken of by a colleague of Radeta's. As far as essential reasons are concerned, this should, by all attributes, be a technical law, i.e. amendments and additions to one technical law. However, according to what we received in the text, it also has political qualities. As regards the technical attributes of this law, the Legislative Committee shall firstly assess whether these segments of a legal text are in conformity with the Constitution or not. Article 125. The constitution is very clear, so further comments are not necessary. So, from a technical point of view, this amendment and the addition of the law is incorrect. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Law also has political attributes and, in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee, when assessing compliance with the principles of the legal system, can enter into a measure and consider the idea of the legislator. And from that aspect, this bill is incorrect. Namely, an institute of the first Deputy Prime Minister, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister, is required to be introduced, which is not recognized first by the Constitution as such, and is not recognized by the theory of constitutional law. Our government is designed to accept the collegiate model and the decision-making resolution model, not the presidial model, in its functioning. It has quite solid capacities, consistent with the interpretation of the Government Act, to determine the powers and tasks of the Deputy Prime Minister already in place. The interpretation states that the constitution specifically determines the functions of the Deputy Prime Minister, but also says that, under the Government Act, the Deputy Prime Minister is directing and coordinating the work of the government's authorities in areas designated by the Prime Minister. The prime minister may also authorise him to manage a project from the work of several authorities of the state administration. The Prime Minister shall designate the Deputy Prime Minister to replace him during the absence or prevention, with all the powers of the Prime Minister, with the exception of the power to propose an election or discharge of a member of the Government. Therefore, already existing legislation fully defines the position of Deputy Prime Minister, who recognises Article 125. The Constitution, so that the bill submitted by the proposer, i.e. its Article 2, is absolutely unnecessary, i.e. it is anti-constitutional. I was just talking about the political attributes of this bill. Obviously, such a proposal is part of the political deal. If there's something wrong with the Constitution, and it's part of the political agreement, we don't want any part of it. Accordingly, as a representative of the LDP in the Legislative Committee, I have singled out an opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u277	I thank Dr. Rangelovic. I give my word to Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all the MPs of the SRS held a session of the Legislative Committee held an opinion largely on the same grounds. In detail of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, I will not engage for the time being, but I must say one finding common to all those who have issued an opinion, and that is, if such a bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act were adopted, Serbia would find itself in one extra-constitutional situation, in an extra-constitutional position, because the RS Constitution would be drastically affected and, in practice, the ruling majority could then do whatever it wants, regardless of the crystal clear constitutional norms. Of course, I can see now that the ruling majority is laughing, they're always funny, because they're ignorant, they don't know anything, and they think it's enough that they have 126 MPs, so they change what legal science has long known. As far as you know, it is best seen in the case of how the committees of the Serbian Parliament work. Mrs. Verica Radeta read the article 45. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The article is very clear. It's the only thing that doesn't make it clear to those who have a majority on that board. If you look at the report of the Legislative Committee and look at the report of the Committee on Justice and Administration, you will see that these two reports are absolutely indistinguishable. The formulations are exactly the same, and according to the Rules of Procedure, they should not be the same. Therefore, the Legislative Committee is not the parent committee on the issue of government and state administration. The Legislative Committee has only one task, which is to say whether the proposed legislative solutions are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, whether or not, or whether the solutions contained in the draft law are legally possible or not. The Legislative Committee shall not engage in whether solutions are consistent, whether they are economical, whether they are rational, whether they are coherent, whether they are like this or not, but only whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or not. Unfortunately, one very bad practice is repeated in the work of the Legislative Committee, which is that the Legislative Committee discusses everything and everything, only not what is its sole jurisdiction, which is to assess whether the bill is constitutional or not. We were able to hear today from the representatives of the ruling majority of stories about the draft government law and the proposal for a law on ministries. Most of the stories in scientific terms are absolutely unfounded, but it is not essential that the Legislative Committee determines whether the bill is good or not, whether it facilitates the work of the Government, but whether it is constitutional or not. Today, the Legislative Committee was in one situation that it did not vote whether or not the Bill on Government was constitutional, but whether the Legislative Committee is proposing to the National Assembly to accept it or not. This is not the task of the Legislative Committee. As I said, it is enough to compare two reports: the report of the Legislative Committee and the report of the Committee on Justice and Administration. There's absolutely no difference in formulations. The Legislative Committee's report says this: "The Committee has considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Government and proposes that the National Assembly accept it in principle." It is just enough to respect the rules of procedure's terminology, nothing else, to establish that such a formulation in the report of the Legislative Committee is absolutely not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Here's the report from the Justice and Administration Committee. Of course, I'm not going to read it in general, but the key sentence is this: "By considering this bill, the Committee has decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept, in general, the bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act, in principle." Now, you explain to me what the difference is between these two reports. Therefore, the reports are identical, with the Committee on Justice and Management being the parent committee for this area and the Legislative Committee not. At all, the Legislative Committee is not a parent committee for any draft law. Its sole task, regardless of whether it is a proposal for a Law on Government, a Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land, a Proposal for a Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, on all these draft laws, is one task of the Legislative Committee – to say whether the draft law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Today, at the session of the Legislative Committee, a skilled political maneuver was avoided to put it to the vote whether the bill is in accordance with the Constitution or not. Members of the SRS, who issued their opinion, believe that the bill absolutely does not comply with the Constitution, and not only is it indirectly not in accordance with the Constitution, but it directly violates a crystal clear Article 125. The RS Constitution. Of course, when the debate begins in principle, we will elaborate more. This time I also draw attention to the President of the National Assembly, and to the President of the Legislative Committee, to agree to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It can no longer happen and it must not happen that, as a matter voted on on by the Legislative Committee, a proposal is put on whether to propose to the National Assembly whether to adopt the law in principle or not, but whether the bill is legally possible, or whether it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or not. If such a question were asked today at a session of the Legislative Committee, i.e. that such a proposal for a vote has been so formulated, the question is whether all members of the Legislative Committee of the ruling majority would vote for such a report, because I think some of them have at least a little legal awareness and know themselves that what is proposed today as a draft government law absolutely does not comply with the Constitution, that this is a very dangerous proposal and that this is how the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is drastically trampled.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u279	Thank you. Once again, I ask the parliamentary groups, given that only one has done so so far, to file a word application with a number of Members of the People. Also, I'd like to inform you, in accordance with Article 85, of the extension of the session after 1800 hours until the end of this agenda, and I'm doing that, according to the Rules of Procedure, to 1600 hours. Now I give my word to Mrs. Gordani Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u280	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Presidency, referring to the discussion of my predecessors who issued their opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, I would like to say for the public, above all, in the simplest way possible, what is our task and what is the reason why we have set out our opinion in the vote on the draft government law. The Legislative Committee, I had the impression, is ready to accept this objection from the MPs of the SRS and to consider this proposal at the next session and to start applying the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to return to the period when the Rules of Procedure were truly respected. Here, this isn't the first time since 2000 we've really pointed out this objection constantly, and we don't see the essence that makes it impossible. Why does the ruling majority always avoid comparing their report with the Rules of Procedure? At the next session of the Legislative Committee, we will insist that we discuss and believe that, as people who are there, above all, expert on this area, we will come to the need for the Rules of Procedure to be respected and that our task is to assess whether, from the point of view, it is from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system that a draft law is on the agenda. Now I'm going to try very briefly to explain why we thought that wasn't the case with this bill. It is clear to us, therefore, that we have found ourselves in a situation that we have 24 ministries, that obviously the path position in the resolution section, we are guessing that the problem is, although, of course, we don't know, because we still don't know which resolution has fallen to which political party or electoral list and that there is a real possibility of coming into a path-position, and therefore this kind of change of the Bill on Government. Believe me, even if this were possible, that path-position in practice is still possible. Suppose the Prime Minister is not present, that deputy has the authority he has, but his vote again is not worth two votes as is worth the vote of the Prime Minister, and if there is another minister from a specific option that would possibly give a vote for, we are back in a stalemate and the government cannot vote on something that is on the agenda. So it's impossible for the government to ensure in this way that they always have a majority. For coalition governments, consensus is necessary. If they are unable to reach a consensus on, above all, putting certain draft laws on the agenda, these laws should not even be found at government meetings. It's a matter of political will. What I'm saying, I'm saying from experience, so the government can work. It is obvious that there is a fear of the government's blockade and this way the future government is trying through the congregation's majority, which has proposed this law, to overcome it. Here's the argument that it's impossible. These are some, so to speak, practical reasons why I find it unnecessary to amend the Government Act for this. In addition, we really need to stick to a constitution that is perfectly clear in Article 125 and that says who these people are who make up the government, that they are the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. Now we can't have one of the vice presidents, whoever it is, moving on to some deputy that he's worth more than the rest. We have a case, and that's what I said on the Legislative Committee, in the Russian Duma, for example, there's the first deputy president of the Duma, but they can do it because it's possible under their law. We could do the same with the law in the congregation, but we didn't, and we don't have one of the first such deputies. We've got a vice president, we don't have a deputy. And this is some proposal that, if it had passed, it seems to me, not our Assembly Committee on Law, but the government's legislation, this could not have passed if the people who work there really cared about the preservation of the legal order. Of course, the congregation majority can vote anything and can vote whatever they want. There is nothing we can do about it, but we are obliged, and because of these stenograms being kept, which become archives, which become something that one day will study and study and that will write about what parliamentaryism in Serbia looked like in 2000, to come forward and say. Therefore, it is impossible for both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to accept such a proposal for a government law. That, like this, in one way that maybe our rejuvenation would say about this deputy president who wanted to raise himself above the other vice presidents -- "you are or you are not a lion." Either you're the Prime Minister or you're not, unless you're equal to everyone else in office as Deputy Prime Minister and your influence won't be any smaller or bigger than I intellectually or by contributing to the work of that government you'll give. The fact that someone will be called a deputy will not bring him anything more than to be led by some ministry, some ministry, and it provides results that are at an enviable level and that will respect Serbian citizens, as our people say, "call me whatever you want, just don't kick my ass". And so it is about this deputy president who obviously just wants to feed his vanity; indeed, without knowing who it is, this is how we experience this bill of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u281	Thank you, Mr. Zoran Krasic has the word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u282	We rarely single out opinions when some of the bill's proposals are on board, but now we've had to take advantage of this opportunity to fence ourselves from this and say that we have nothing to do with this, because it's such serious injuries, which is no wonder when it comes to DS, because when it comes to Thessaloniki, Bodrum can, the quorum can't, the quorum, all of it, just the drop system is constant. What's this about? I tried to show them today that if the Government Act had to change already, it would be more desirable to change a few members before this 13th. We will now, if this majority, and I am absolutely sure of that, adopt this bill and it becomes law, have total discrimination in the government. We're going to have a Prime Minister, we're going to have one or more Deputy Prime Minister, we're going to have another one of those vice presidents who's going to be the first vice president - vice president. The ones they wrote, they must have read somewhere in the books that there's some difference when the vice president and vice president say. There is a difference, but that difference is not recognised by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 125(1), he clearly defines the composition of the government of the Republic of Serbia, says the government is made up of the president, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. To go back to what I started now. In this form of discrimination that will follow this law we will also have resolution ministers and portfolio ministers. So, this is Solana's flock making government by system: the president, the first vice president – vice president, vice presidents, resolution ministers, ministers without portfolio. The constitution doesn't allow that kind of improvisation, but we'll move on when the time comes, in principle, to talk about it, I'm just saying now why I've singled out my opinion. Because I believe this is deeply contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, in the event of an unresolved vote, I use this termology, as it is known, given that the football championship ended a few days ago, there was one heavy untruth about some of our experiences with a decision-making outcome. This happened for the first time in the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court in the assessment of the constitutionality of the Extraprofit Act. The federal constitutional court made a decision and said – so many members are contrary to the Constitution of the SRJ, but 11 members, for those 11 members, could not make a decision because votes had been split, unsettled, I think it was 11:11. They made a decision not to make a decision. In such situations, I would suggest to Mr. Ristic that, if it is 12:12, the whole team has 11 plus one reserve, to use the reserves, in case of a drawout to go to the penals, so you shoot the penals to see what the decision was made. The second form of decision is to take care of who voted with the left hand and who with his right hand in the cabinet session. If he voted with his right hand it draws a coefficient of 1,01, and if he's left, that's 1,0001. Please, positive experiences of Croatia, Slovenia; that you did not take Greenland, Iceland, Papua or anything else. Who do you think you're harassing in this assembly with great innovations like, no more, the one – what is incompatibility of functions and what is conflict of interest. Poor guy, mixed up the subject, he'd only get a unit because he got the subject mixed up. I don't want to abuse this time, because we have plenty of time to explain. It is not good to write a bill by system – one member in one apartment, another member in another apartment, and then the members get confused and the papasian turns out to be. We'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u283	Thank you. I give my word to Mrs. Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u284	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Madam President, I don't want to waste a lot of words on this bill. With one single sentence, I can characterize this proposal, which is that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act is unconstitutional. Four arguments stand for my claim. The first argument is that the constitution provides for the government to be made by the prime minister, one or more vice-presidents, and does not foresee the ranking of ministries or vice-presidents. What does this mean? This means that this member is in direct contrast with Article 125. The Constitution. The second argument is, the government's co-chair institution is being introduced, as the deputy is scheduled to assist the president, which means he is providing assistance in continuity, in leading and directing the government, in caring for the unity of the government's political functioning and in harmonising the work of government members. Whether this envisions the inability of a future prime minister who will need constant assistance, or prepares the ground for the real prime minister to be his deputy. The third argument is – The constitution does not provide that the Prime Minister has so much authority to ensnar his permanent deputy. The Prime Minister is elected by the National Assembly. This allows for Article 127 to pass. The constitution and the post of Prime Minister take over the deputy. The fourth argument is that the basic principle of democracy was violated when the prime minister was given that golden vote of decision. If this future government really thinks it's pro-European and democratic, then I don't know how a member of the law can be adopted and applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u285	Thank you. The presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, now have the word. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic answered first, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u286	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has already been presented by our MPs, members of the Assembly Committee, clearly that we cannot support these proposed amendments to the Government Act. I think it's a perfectly clear argument, just as it's clear that it doesn't commit this parliamentary majority too much. I'll try to explain to you the reasons why it's bad. It is true that the state can be run in two ways. One is through respect for the rules that make the country a state, and the other by realising some political idea or vision that is stronger than the state's own architecture, because that architecture is overcome. The latter was characteristic of the period in which we were in place after October 2000, when bile debates on the constitutionality or unconstitutional nature of individual laws or decisions were also held here in Parliament. As the head of the parliamentary majority at this point, I know that together with the majority, we have often been in a position to make decisions that have been in conflict with certain legal norms, precisely because these legal norms were an expression of the efforts of a regime to strengthen its illegal practices by law. This is 2008. We were fierce critics of the Constitution, which received disputed support in the referendum, disputed because it was clear to everyone that 50% of the citizens with voting rights voted for him in the referendum, i.e. that it did not support him so much. We have been strong critics of this constitution, but despite all this, we cannot say today that in 2008, the year in which Serbia can be guided by compliance with the 2000 rules. There is no political idea and political vision that today would justify violating the Constitution and the law governing life in our country. How many times has it been said here that he's a member of 125? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear. However, it is obvious that the parliamentary majority, despite warnings, has made a decision to adopt the government law by breaking the constitution, behind which each of the parties that make up the ruling coalition stood to the extent possible. I even think they've gone beyond the limits of some political reason. So we can't vote for this law because it's against the constitution. We cannot vote on this law, on the other hand, because it is obvious that there is still no kind of awareness among the parties that make up power in Serbia that would oblige them to adapt to Serbia rather than to ask Serbia to adapt to the needs of a coalition. It's a serious political problem. The first two meetings of the Assembly showed that the parliamentary majority lacked the power to lead that policy that would bring us closer to the needs of our society. Obviously, the needs of our society are not those that can be satisfied with inefficient and incompetent work. We have today done everything not to support the ruling coalition but to make this parliament an effective parliament, the kind of institution that needs our society. Again, there were not enough votes to unite the debates that need to be united, because this debate on two members of the law that are changing in itself is actually a waste of time. The real debate is the debate that will follow this agenda point when the issue of the government itself is raised, i.e. the debate on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. This dysfunction and incompetence that follows your ruling coalition now puts us in a position to stand up here above all because we think the state can't be guided by how clearly you're trying to do it at this point, by breaking the Constitution, by disregarding the law or by characterising the law, and without a clear political idea and vision that would be some kind of political, if not some legal justification. After 2000, we faced constitutional obstacles, conflict of institutions, jurisdiction, a whole series of laws that bound both hands and feet to anyone who tried to change our country. Eight years later, there is no argument that would be acceptable to the Liberal Democratic Party to agree on the proposed amendments and additions to the Government Act. Simply, what kind of government gives, even before its formation, full legitimacy to revote and mutual misunderstanding? This practically means that there is nothing that is a kind of political commitment to citizens and that practically the government protects itself in advance by mechanisms that are undemocratic, by introducing a rule that may make sense on the board of directors, but definitely makes no sense in the organisation of the government itself. How pointless that is, I'll tell you on a pretty clear case. Imagine that the Serbian Parliament, which has 250 MPs, makes a decision that the vote of the president or president of Parliament is worth two votes if there is no majority, if Parliament is divided. If a board of directors can function in this way, why can't the Serbian Parliament function as well? If we have 125 and one vote is missing, why wouldn't the vote of Parliament be worth two? Is it so clear that it can't be, that in politics one and one are not two? It can't even be in the government. The fact that you give the Prime Minister a weight that he does not actually have is about your efforts to hold your first session, since it is obvious that this partnership on which the government rests is not sincere, the parties gathered around the government are thinking much more about their needs and their personal goals, and much less about the needs and goals of Serbia itself. We had one government that voted, right? For the first time, for the second time, for the third time, and then we got the elections that looked, because of the way they were called, primarily as "revenge of an angry prime minister," not an expression of the needs and awareness of a government to seek support for its policy in society if it is not within a falling coalition. The amendments and additions of the Government Act are therefore against the constitution because the institutions of Deputy Prime Minister are being introduced without the need for this moment, but it is obviously the need of a coalition. Is that logical from the point of view of the Socialist Party of Serbia that is returning to power? Yes, it is. I'm surprised, because it's obvious that these limits of permissibility are so stretching, they stopped at this. I think there was room for another blackmail. Why should socialists behave differently from any other coalition partner who makes up the ruling majority? Finally, why does the Democratic Party pay that price when it is already clear that the price is too high and that it will cost not only the Democratic Party or the European Democratic bloc in our society, but also cost every citizen of this country? There is no happiness in a coalition that is thus protected but in the first step, by giving rights that have no foothold in neither the Constitution nor any law nor political practice in our society. This is the tenth government since 1990. All governments had vice presidents and no one thought to find someone among the vice presidents who, because of this great potential, would be the vice president. They were vice presidents who did certain business, but no one was Deputy Prime Minister. The people who worked in the government know how practical and realistic it is and how much it is, in fact, a political title without a lot of content. And that will be said by each member of the ruling coalition beyond this debate, that it is a political title that has no essential weight and does not give rise to any particular right, but precisely because it is one political title Parliament must not deal with. Parliament should build its support or its opposition on the seriousness and severity of the decisions behind it. What is the seriousness of the message to elect a deputy prime minister who will be a front or a price for the coalition that was created? It's something that's unacceptable to us, and it's, in our opinion, bad. No one can justify their coalition needs by violating the Constitution of this country, which you have brought yourself and which binds you just as we who have opposed him. As for the "golden voice" right, it is clear that this right cannot be achieved within the ruling coalition by calling for some rules in decision-making in some other institutions or bodies. If there is a board of directors in which this is possible, then only the differences and reasons that make it possible on that board of directors and not possible in the Government itself must be seen. The idea of revote has its own political basis, simply, the parties agree and disagree, but when the government revotes, then the government becomes dysfunctional. What is natural is that in a situation where the Prime Minister does not have the support of his cabinet, he asks that support here in parliament, to come and say - I have lost the support of my coalition partners, not to act as if nothing had happened, not to have a prime minister vote and he is turning his head in front of it or trying to protect himself with some golden voice. It is clear that, given the announced changes and additions of the Ministry Act, the Democratic Party will in such a way try to strike a balance with the other side of the ruling coalition in the Republic government, but what is the problem of the Democratic Party through this principle that it is insisting that it is trying to strike a balance with partners that all together do not have 10% of the political support the Democratic Party itself has. That's why it's the wrong way to start. In addition to the Democratic Party in the ruling coalition or parliamentary majority behind the project, there are no parties that went on their own to vote on 11 May. With whom is the Democratic Party trying to strike a balance with a golden voice? These are now the political problems that are practically putting us in a position right now to warn you of the mistake you're making. It is a much clearer position that has a full foothold in both the Constitution and the law – you have the Prime Minister, you have the Deputy Prime Ministers; if there is no support in the Government whether this support exists in Parliament, if it is not in Parliament there exists in society. Everything else is artificial engineering and it increases the cost of this coalition. We will vote against and try, together with everyone here in Parliament, to do those jobs that are much more important than our mutual relations, and they are related to the achievement of this European future for our country and to solving those problems that are so serious and large. One of them remained behind, the Kosovo Serb Assembly was held in Kosovo in Mitrovica on June 28th. Not only are we divided here in Serbia, those in Kosovo are divided. This assembly reminds many of those congregations established in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, Bosnia, Croatia. It would be good if we all had the strength together to think about the political moves that retreat and the price that others pay for our inability and ineffectiveness. It is clear that Kosovo is the problem, the problem of Europe, our internal relations, that there are a number of economic problems, that we are being torn down by a concession contract, and that there is no question of responsibility for those who have gambled for two or three years of our lives and practically returned to us today in 2005. All this obliges this parliament to have a completely different relationship with business. You'll have LDP support in every effort that makes sense. This insistence is not logical, and I will try to explain to you why it is. There is no support for a policy that presupposes the needs of a ruling coalition and does not support politics or parliamentary majority that is trying to adapt Serbia to itself, rather than adapting itself to the kind of Serbia that we are living in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u287	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government has already taken the first step by hiring a group of MPs and, behold, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee shows that the primate in its rule will not be the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia exclusively achieving the objectives, and you know that even the road to hell is filled with good intentions. It is our job to warn you that you cannot deceive the public of Serbia with some good intentions, if it is evident that you are performing very roughly, to throw under your feet and what little democracy that was created in Serbia, the truth fragilely, and on a thin basis, but yet it has taught Serbia that DS would end democracy, along with its new coalition partners. First, the chairman of the Justice Committee must know that there is no analogy here with a court council, and that there would be analogy in favour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the court council does not have an even number of members, and I find it really strange to hear the chairman of the Justice Committee who introduces a golden voice to a man in Serbia, who empowers someone to have two votes. Do you know when it could be a steaming court? If the president had two votes, the council has five members and the president has another one, that's six. It's the only way I can understand Mr. President of the Justice Committee. What's this about? In government talks, we had that idea. The Socialist Party of Serbia's wish was to be presented as a strong partner in the government. It is understandable that Mr Dacic, as president of one political party, is either singled out as the only vice president or set out within the framework of the other vice presidents. We said that the SRS cannot allow there to be no Deputy Prime Minister, but that we are ready for the Prime Minister to say clearly and loudly that the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, will replace him in the event of prevention, absence, up to those two conditions that exclude the Government Act, which is the disbandment of the Government and new elections. It was all that we, as people who cared about the Constitution and the law, were especially about the Law on Government, which follows the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, ready to agree. This is a brand-new moment, unacceptable for anyone who cares about the state. If you open this door now, and you establish the Government in an unconstitutional and illegal manner, then how will you implement the obligations of Article 6. The government law when it says so – the government oversees the constitutionality and legality of general acts of autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities. Who? Will he who violates the constitution when he establishes a government to monitor the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the self-government authorities? Whom will you suspend from execution until the Constitutional Court makes a decision, when a man will now tell you? Are you telling me that, you who invented the post of Deputy Prime Minister? Now let's talk straight. Can the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister be drawn up in one function? Is that compatible? Is that logical? It's not. The deputy is not the vice president. The Deputy Prime Minister is in the event of his absence and prevention. The vice president has a completely different job, oversees the work of the government's authorities where the president tells him, in the parts he says. Now what's the deputy overseeing... And, I guess that's the idea -- that an SPS representative is overseeing all ministers. Now you're telling me that this gang from G17 plus is going to listen to the edge of Dacic. Please don't. Which one of you guaranteed that the Constitutional Court would remain silent about this violation of the Constitution? Because you couldn't do this without knowing that the Constitutional Court won't challenge you. I don't suppose you're playing by establishing a government based on an unconstitutional government law and bringing it down on you by the Constitutional Court. Someone guaranteed that the Constitutional Court would remain silent. Who's that? The President of the Republic. No, I heard here the predecessors that the deputy should be some kind of tutor to the president, Deputy Prime Minister. You all have a tutor, it's Boris Tadic. All this is meant for Boris Tadic to tutor the National Assembly, the Government, the Constitutional Court. How long are you going to last? There's no such thing in the empires. In the 14th century, Marseilles said that the laws serve to restrain the master and the judge, you no longer have a way to control the master, you're just inventing new responsibilities for him. This government law is proof of that. A coalition partner can be respected without being irritated more than half of the Assembly. There are people among you who know this is unconstitutional. You'll raise your hand, I know, you'll push buttons, you don't care, you've been doing it for years, you've done it when there were 310 MPs in the Serbian Parliament, but where your soul would be. Two thousand eight years, you want to go to Europe. This one's not in Europe, people. In Europe, the Constitutional Court itself would have responded to the bill. I'd say -- don't waste your energy, that bill is unconstitutional. As many as we have a Constitutional Court judge – 10 out of 15, decisions are made with 8 votes in the Constitutional Court. Five judges chose Tadic, five judges suggested Tadic. Do we have a Constitutional Court? We don't. We have the auxiliary authority of the Democratic Party, now called the Constitutional Court. That's why you're so uncompromising. That's why you don't care if any solution is in accordance with the Constitution. We can also warn you of violations of the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution, you have your Constitutional Court. Will you, gentlemen, go to that Constitutional Court and say, our government will have 24 ministries, so we have predicted that if the government has an even number, then votes 12:12, the Prime Minister has a 'golden voice'. We worked together on the proposal of that Constitution. You've worked unsuccessfully for five years before that. Where does it say that, Mr. Ristich? Have you found one provision, of those 200 and something, where one man is favored in Serbia on any basis, where one man decides when it is unresolved and everyone sees him vote, so it will be? Please, Mr. Ristic, you don't deserve to be president of the Justice Committee. You should be president of the press board, blackmail, bribery, false voting. How come it didn't occur to you that the entire professional public would jump on you? Will you change your relationship in all institutions? The fish smell like a head! Are we going to go everywhere now? Who are you going to stop implementing this principle? Who are you going to tell – he can't? You can't have a golden voice? What can't it have? There's a Prime Minister, so when that kind of decision comes to the government, in the local community, six of them are in a meeting, three, three, I'm the president of the local community, my voice is gold. Look for analogy with the Government Act. Who's going to solve it? The Justice Committee will say, yes, we were in favour of this law (Government, you are a board of directors, the local community is the administration), yes, we were in favour of that law, the president of the local community can have two votes, but only in case it's an even number. Why can't it if it's an odd number? If a man is worth two votes, then he is worth two votes when an even number is present and when an odd number is present. Why are you reducing that number if there are an odd number of members or the number of present? Here must be the number, because – of the total number of members of the Government. Why are you playing with that? Why didn't you write that law human? You had a good law, it's yours, you wrote it, this is your law. You could add some benefits to the SPS, it can do with the quality of the ministries, it can do a bit by hand to this firm G17 plus, not the description of Minister Dinkic's site and a half, the Prime Minister does not have such a job description, to know who "car of Serbia" – Mladjan Dinkic. We're not just not going to vote for this, we're not going to take part in this. When you decide this and vote me in the O.R. at all, we won't go in. This is what you imagine and carry out. You can answer for this yourself. I guess one day someone will stop appointing you for everything you do, one day what looks like "will" will be like God, one day someone will ask you what you're doing in Serbia, and these tutors who let you do all sorts of things, rape Serbia, press it for three months until they agree to you to exercise power. The president of the Republic said yesterday - it must be the same government in Belgrade as in the Republic. Since when did gentlemen "yellow"? If Milosevic had said so, you would not have seen Gonzales in life, but to tell you that you hold Belgrade and I hold Serbia. Then he'd be a tyrant, he'd be a non-democracy, he'd be the last regime in Europe, and he'd have to be brought down even by bombing Serbia. That's what it looks like, socialist gentlemen. You have now entered power with those who value only what they are in power and only those who are with them in power. And that's what the DSS guys see. They've been a democratic block so far. When they're not with the "yellows" they're not Democrats anymore. Now you're reformists, and when you're not with them, you'll be back where they found you. Slobodan Milosevic was also "a butcher" and "a peace and stability factor in the Balkans" and "a cause for Serbia's bombing". All that "yellow" can do, and the only rapper is whether you're with them or not. We survive because we're not with the yellows. There must be a second, much better and much nicer Serbia, Serbia that will not be robbed, Serbia in which the man who has surrendered Sartid to become Prime Minister, Serbia in which one day he will be tried according to justice and law and who handed over Sartid at a price at which you can't even buy an agricultural cooperative. Everything will come for itself. You can calculate, deceive, prevent a good and decent government from stopping the fight against crime, but not for long. This is your last time. Look at this side, no one will come here with you anymore. They're going to tear the corners off, and where are you going to be? Then we'll let everyone do their job, the police, the prosecutors, the judges, Mr. President of the Justice Committee, by conscience and by law. If we do that, you'll have a calm head. We'll clear half the party for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u289	The word is Mr Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law that we have before us today, about amendments and additions to the Government Act, is at the same time as it is as stupid and unconstitutional as it is short, because it has five members here, of which it is fourth to authorise the Legislative Committee to establish a consolidated text and fifth that this law enters into force on the day of publication in the Official Messenger. The previous three members speak a lot about the intention of those who have proposed this, and the intention is simple and very simple, to create a kind of personal political trade that should provide a certain privileged status for a particular president of a particular political party, which is Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS, at this point, in order to end and end the political trade between these parties that should enable the formation of a government to be managed by Mr Cameron Manter, or Washington, through him, and that is the whole combination that will be made here. Now let's see what's stupid and what's unconstitutional. This law introduces two newspapers compared to the existing law, which is why it changes and complements it. The first amendment refers to Article 13 of the current Government Act, which says in its 3rd position that the Prime Minister determines the Deputy Prime Minister who replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister, except for the authority to propose elections and discharges from the member of the government. This bill deletes this article and then introduces what they think is smart, those who wrote, and I say it is extremely stupid, which is -- the Prime Minister sets out one vice president for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. I guess the issue of the convention is what we're going to call it now, the first vice president or vice president. You haven't been able to get your mind together and figure out what you're going to write. Why didn't you write the third alternative, let's call it the demectable vice president of the government, let's call him the one and the rainy vice president of the government, so we can have a third alternative to what we call him. Let's call him Ivica Dacic, that's the fourth alternative, since it's totally irrelevant. His first name was Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, rainy Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. That's the same thing. Identify yourselves, for the normative purity of the text, for one variant, and then let's talk further, don't make a circus here. So that's what it says here. Therefore, for the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, they are now explaining the phenomenal thing – which replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister (they have just copied it from that provision they have deleted), except for the power to propose elections and discharge of a member of the Government. Now comes the crown of stupidity and dissuasion: the first Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister helps the Prime Minister to lead and direct the government, to care for the unity of the government's political functioning, to coordinate the work of government members. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says next in Article 125. - The government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. Let me not tell you that it does not mention anywhere the variant of the first deputy, the rainy Ivica Dacic, or any of that – the Prime Minister who leads and directs the work of the Government is concerned about the uniform political functioning of the Government, harmonizes the work of government members and represents the Government. This is the post of Prime Minister, the Prime Minister is doing it. When absent or prevented, he empowers his vice-president to take over the role played by the Prime Minister, including this post. It cannot happen that any vice-president of the government helps the Prime Minister exclusively under the law on the performance of these functions. It can't be. The Constitution exclusively links this function that I have cited, which concerns the management and direction of the government's work, the care of uniform political action, the coordination of the work of government members and the representation of the government, only to the Prime Minister – when the Prime Minister is not there when he is to be replaced by the Deputy Prime Minister, when he is empowered by the Prime Minister to do so, he also performs those functions. He cannot be present in the presence of the Prime Minister when he is not prevented from working, when he is present in the work of the government and in the government's work, that one of the vice-presidents, whom you call the first, or vice-president of the government, is helped to achieve this function. First of all, we don't know what it means to help in fulfilling your functions, secondly, you're skipping the constitution provision that says it's possible that someone could just replace him in the event of absence and prevention. You're introducing some kind of co-authority or bicep in the government itself, which needs to create confusion instead of helping the government work. It's all done to give meaning to one segment of this future government, if it ever comes together, because today you showed that you don't have a congregation majority, we'll see, you might just sort of scrape in the next few days. Let's see that this first Deputy Prime Minister - Deputy Prime Minister, in this way, gets a kind of respect, which doesn't seem to feel like there's one of these nonsense or contradictions you don't write. Furthermore, in Article 3 of this law, you say, in the event that the government has an even number of members of the government's decisions, it has been made, and if it is voted by at least half of all government members, on condition that the Prime Minister voted for a decision. Amazing, what are you trying to say to these? I'll tell you how to interpret it. What's a member of the government? What's the Prime Minister? Do you think these members of the government you listed do not belong to the Prime Minister? That means, according to you, that the Prime Minister, that's one interpretation, and we need to make that clear, not at all, but only let the members of the government vote, so when most government members make the majority of the vote, that's fine. If Pata-cards happen, only then does the Prime Minister use the right to vote and whose side he stands to win. But you didn't mean it because anywhere in the Constitution or in the law there is no exclusion from the right of the Prime Minister's vote, such as the Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Here's how it goes: the president of the committee or president of the bureau never votes by the rule of law, but he can vote when the votes of the other members of the bureau or committee are equal. So, when they're pata-cards, then they can use the right to vote, which so far has no right to use and to put on one side. You didn't write that. You couldn't write it because it's against the constitution and it's impossible for the Prime Minister not to vote. And when it votes, does that mean, for example, if the vote ratio is 15:15, and on one side (of those 15 votes) the president's vote, the party won the vote, does that mean? It's stupid and unconstitutional, anti-democratic and impossible. How can something that is not most of them grow into a much stronger qualification of the voice of someone sitting there? Do you know where that's possible? It's only possible in companies, where you have the votes of shareholders, which thanks to the capital that draws behind them a larger number of votes; that's where you saw it somewhere. An analogy cannot be sought in the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court is not that kind of decision, neither is that branch of government, nor is that standing there, there is no such analogy. In each state body, a legislative or executive body, a majority is meant to make a decision, because the majority includes the democratic principle and the domestic constitution that we have. It is impossible to convert what is not most in the majority by giving more qualifications to the voice of one of those who should be the first among the equals, and it turns out that more than the first among the equals, it turns out to be more valuable than the others – it cannot be. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to define ourselves as the political system you have in this country. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been defined for the political system. Don't make things up and make a circus. In Great Britain, you have a cabinet system, too, in Belgium on a federal level, you have a cabinet system. There the Prime Minister makes all decisions on his own, and ministers are, in fact, secretaries of the resolutions that carry out his duties. Similarly, it was in the City Assembly in Belgrade and in our larger cities, so it was in the previous system. Whoever doesn't want to listen to the Prime Minister, he can only thank him and say goodbye and pleasantly. You don't want to follow my program, listen to my decisions and follow my orders as prime minister who I've gathered my cabinet, please, goodbye, pleasantly, and I'll inform the assembly that I've relieved you. We don't have a system like that. This is one kind of hybrid you're making here, which has no constitutional basis, and it's also stupid. So this proposal is, I end my first 10 minutes of exposure, stupid, short, anti-constitutional and serves to achieve a single function of a future coalition, if ever created because you don't have a majority and you showed it today. I hope it comes into existence, so let's see what you do next, later, when you get into that problem. It is only for one single reason, in order to achieve the wish of certain Western states, particularly Washington, to through Cameron Manter, making demands to the president and to this so-called so-called. Serbia's first vice president, deputy raincoat Ivica Dacic, achieves its goals in Serbia's territory. That's practically all you want to achieve with this government law. I've never seen anything stupider, shorter and more unconstitutional in my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u291	Thank you. I give my word to Professor Zarko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic. I will, on behalf of our parliamentary group SPS - PUPS - Unique Serbia, say a few sentences about this bill and what has so far been said about the laws and the president of the SPS of Mr Ivica Dacic. I must say that Mr. Aligrudić is making me more and more happy, because every time he comes out for this pay phone he gets more and more agile in explaining something that is objectively unexplainable and cannot be explained differently than - anger. Anger, there's no argument to anger. Why am I saying this? The fact is that this law should create a presumption for the choice of government and MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the fact is that it reflects part of what is called a coalition relationship in the future government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the fact that it has something to do with the SPS position. I thank Mr Tomislav Nikolic for his political correctness that he explained and publicly said what was part of the talks, concerning the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which the SPS together with the PUPS and the Unity of Serbia led with DSS, New Serbia and the SRS. What the public doesn't know, and I see Mr. Aligrudic, and that's why I'd ask him next time he wants to talk about this subject, a similar subject or tomorrow about the Ministry Act, to get a little information about what's been discussed and what's been discussed... Because if he did, he'd know there was a story about a deputy president with your leadership, Mr. Aligrudic, and it wasn't a problem in the talks then or later. Don't tell us these stories now and give us explanations that, of course, drive water to your guidebook, and you won't explain any other things that will likely be the subject of conversation when it comes to the agenda of the Ministry Act. You should know that there have been conversations with your leaderships, where you have not attended, and I have, and that is why I can speak, and you cannot, and that part of the conversation has not been attended either Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. It has been said that it is not a problem for the Deputy Prime Minister to be too, but that it will be seen whether amendments to the Government Act can be made. That's true, and I really don't see any reason for this kind of behavior, for anger, and especially for such qualifications as the president of Mr. Ivica Dacic. If we had made a coalition with you then some qualifications would have been different and probably those epithets would have been different, you'd probably be superlative about it. Mr. Aligrudic, I understand that you have your reasons for dissatisfaction, but the reasons that you should declare to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a different way than you do. If that's an argument, then that argument is not worth it. You better concentrate on something else, something that's going to be more accurate and that's going to be explained differently. In any case, for us SPS MPs, PUPS MPs, the Single Serbia MPs, things are clear and clear. You can trust us, and you don't have to, but we will assure you in the coming days that and how seriously we have discussed the formation of that government. We didn't get any answers. Whether it was considered not necessary, not necessarily or not worthy of an answer, it was a question for whoever was talking. Mr. Nikolic, I have to call on you again, it would be better for many DSS colleagues to read an interview Mr. Nikolic gave to the news last Saturday about the talks, how they were and how they acted. Maybe some things will be more understandable to them, maybe some things will come to their senses after reading that interview, and some will never. We'll say something, but you need some reasons to look inside your party and within your coalition, so when you get answers to those questions, then come out here and say it, that, that. What you said doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u293	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u294	Mr. Obradic, don't find yourself offended. The epithets I've brought out were not arbitrary, but based on what I'm assessing as my impression of someone's physical appearance, not thinking anything ugly, but I deliberately added it to make it easier to describe what the stupidity of a provision is meant to look like. Whether or not we have discussed something, what importance in the future government would be given to the vice-president of the government, would anyone at all get the post of vice-president of the SPS, would the government have more than one vice-president at all, because we don't think there should be more than one vice-president, if we were to honestly talk about what was in the negotiations, who you were talking to, who you were with, that's your private problem, and I don't care about that. As vice president of the party, I know very well what has been discussed, and I know very well that we would never allow that in the event that Vojislav Kostunica is the Prime Minister, someone else holds the post of vice president other than someone from the SRS as the largest political party in the government. That's very well known to you. Don't deceive the public, it doesn't matter. The fact that you've been making some of your wishes, and now you've been waiting for those dreams of yours to come into reality through this kind of nonsense that we got ahead of us, that's your problem. Even if you had been given the post of Deputy Prime Minister, even if you had been given the honor of allowing you to replace the Prime Minister, through a person you would have placed on the post of Deputy Prime Minister, even if that were true, in some of our potential draft laws, there would never be an anti-constitutional sentiment that this Deputy Prime Minister is helping the Prime Minister to lead and direct the government, to care for the unity of the political functioning of the Government and to coordinate the work of members of the Government, because this is contrary to Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of your political agreements, I have the right to mock them. I have the right to speak of your policy being dictated by someone outside this country. That's my political opinion. You can fight as hard as you want. I believe so, and so the citizens of Serbia will testify in the near future. What I'm telling you about this law, it's that you wrote stupidity and something that's against the constitution, and it has nothing to do with you feeling offended by my qualifications. Great, too bad Mr. Dacic isn't here, he could say I'm too skinny, if I were like this. Great, I don't have a problem. I set this example just to point out to you the fact that you cannot write the text in which it stands – the first Deputy Prime Minister, and then you say: Deputy Prime Minister. Well, is he first or is he a deputy? If he's a deputy, then you state in the first position what he's doing in case of absence and prevention. So what does he do when there's no absence and no prevention of the prime minister? Then you say it helps him. Based on which, Article 125. A constitution that doesn't predict such a thing? That's what I'm talking about. So, you write things, you make deals, you bring it up to the National Assembly, and then it bothers you when someone's talking about your cartoons from the draft law in a cartoon way. What else do you expect us to do about this? There's no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u295	Here you are, Professor Dr. Zarko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u296	So, anger, anger, anger! With all due respect, Mr. Aligrudic, and according to the fact that you are the vice president of the party and that you are head of the parliamentary group, you have not participated in the talks and, no offense, you are talking about a subject you do not know enough about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u297	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u298	Dear fellow MPs, the respected presidency, since the constitutional session began, and is now continuing with this second extraordinary one, are constantly talking about how the DSS-NS coalition is angry, my God, at a coalition about the SPS because we haven't made a deal on the future government. I can guarantee you that the DSS-NS coalition is not angry. The DSS-NS is just mad at you, and I think that many citizens who voted for you, and certainly for the DS and the coalition around it, that you said something in the election campaign, and when it came to talking about the government, then you had some other priorities. Who doesn't know, it's called spin. You have obviously hired very good doctors for spin, because the campaign said that the priority of your coalition is to preserve Serbia's integrity, or to preserve Kosovo. I didn't participate in the negotiations, knowing that my party's vice president was; when it turned out that some things couldn't be arranged, then you started to spin Serbian citizens with some other passwords. You know, a "European Social Responsible Government" password appeared as if these previous two were European irresponsible governments. I remind you that in both government and government, Vojislav Kostunica, everyone participated. So the previous governments were also socially responsible. But you need time, so we're going to see how true your spin on social responsibility is really going to be. That's what we have time to talk about. Now comes the second spin that speaks of national trust, or reconciliation. Maybe it was better this -- national trust. We're not in a fight with anyone. The president of your party, Ivica Dacic, knows how nice it is to come out here and say, "What are you complaining about, you've all exercised power with the SPS." That's right! In 2004, the SPS was a very good partner to the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, where G17 plus participated; however, you were providing minority support and were a reliable partner. I think I can thank you for your cooperation. You were correct. I'd look back on one column, we've got a fellow writer here, I can't say the name of the newspaper, it'd be advertising, but he's got a column. He writes about what's going on in the National Assembly. The latest article is "The Jealous Husband", and the propo of this story is how the DSS-NS coalition is God-awful about how angry it is at the SPS coalition. It's his impression after these sessions, that there's a jealous husband here. I'd say it could be a jealous groom, if he wanted to, so we'd be precise, because DSS-NS wasn't married to the SPS. We had fun, here, the SPS helped us, so we can say it was our girl. However, a jealous husband, then, is not, firstly, a jealous husband; now there is some other part or potential groom who offers this girl better conditions. Please, no hard feelings. Good luck to you. Please, you know, it offends common sense, not us, we do politics, and I don't know if we have any reason or reason to be angry, because we all know what's going on. You insult the common sense of citizens and not only those who voted for the DS coalition, for the SPS coalition, stop spinning some stories just to justify some of your actions. So be honest and say, please, we chose this groom. He's offering us much better conditions than this other one. Be honest. I can tell you that Mr. Dragan Markovic was the most honest, he was, and before the negotiations started, he said, "You know what?" (President: you've exceeded your time. )......................................................................................................... I am a great supporter of Europe, and I want to go to Europe, so I don't want to talk to this groom or this coalition at all. No offense, you chose, but please don't tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u299	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic, please, just tell us which member? You're a member of the 104th Advertise, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u300	We could address one another with respect. Do not qualify my knowledge or ignorance of political events. It's none of your business. The fact that you attended a meeting I didn't attend doesn't give you the right to think of me as someone who knows something or doesn't know about it. That's the first thing. The other thing, Mr. Beard, I'm not mad at you at all, you've got it all wrong. How can I be angry with someone who, as a national MP, apparently a member of the opposition political group in Parliament, makes such a pleasure to bring before us, proposing such garbage from a law that turns this assembly into a circus. It's something that fills me with pleasure, not anger. It's something that gives me a chance to tell you a few things I said. It's something that gives me a chance to take that piece of paper and throw it here and demonstrate what I think about it, that is. That what you wrote was short, stupid and unconstitutional. And then we're going to add to this the garbage of the text. So that's what you gave us here. That's what I'm talking about. Everything you said does not diminish the power of my words when I said, nor did you try to deny it, that what you are going to do in the future is obviously something that is not Serbian, which is not of this state, but is part of fulfilling the orders of some who are doing it on the side, outside of this country. As Cameron Manter has influenced the assembly of such a government, it is likely that the gentleman on behalf of the United States will make an effort to do what is necessary for this government to do according to his instructions. Why would someone get so excited to put together something like this, and then don't care what happens to that newborn? No, brother, that someone will look after him, caress him, lubes, dressing for the mangers, kindergarten, elementary school, high school, etc. So he'll take care of his child. That's the essence of my message. Come on, you deny it. How are you going to deny it when you said one thing in the election campaign, when then the principles we agreed on were one thing, when your party leader was talking one thing, and now he's telling the other. That's not our problem anymore. From this moment on, I don't have that problem. Our problem is to follow what you're going to do in the future. We wait for Thursday, Friday, Monday, Tuesday, when there will be an exposé of the prime minister. We'll hear what he has to say in his presentation. We'll see what the government's policy is, what it looks like, what are the principles that the government stands for, how convincing it sounds. We'll evaluate that, and then we'll open up political issues. Today, another topic was opened – how it is possible that you proposed such a law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How is it possible that this law says that you do not know, because you have the first vice president or vice president of the government, that you are trying to introduce a two-way system, to assist the Prime Minister who is present and has not gone anywhere, which is impossible in the sense of Article 125. The constitution, as it is possible to introduce a golden voice for a man, a member of the government, and he is, in fact, a member of the government in a broader sense, which is worth more than the votes of others, contrary to all democratic principles. (President: Time, Mr. Aligrudic. Thank you, I'll interrupt right away. That's what the question was, not something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u301	The word was answered by Professor. Zarko Obradovic, Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Business. Here, you have the advantage, excuse me, wait. Here you go, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the representatives of the SPS and the DSS that, from these comfortable positions of the MPs, perhaps even future ministers, do not influence how members of these parties across Serbia, who have a pretty good view of each other, are so nice that in many local self-governments they have formed common bodies. Please, we didn't give each other our word. We didn't swear anything. Our representatives in Belgrade, our committees swore and gave a word to each other, even your president took part in this, to form joint authorities in Belgrade. Don't make this an excuse, when Boris Tadic eventually takes over Belgrade, for this debate today about what the Government Act looks like to be an excuse for some to break their word and dirty their cheeks, to forget about morals. So please, what we talked about, we talked. We didn't make it. The others seem to have spoken better. The others did it. When they fight, we'll know about them as well as how they talked and what happened. Please do not let this affect the spirit of tolerance and the very close co-operation that has developed within these three parties throughout Serbia, which will one day again result in our co-operation and at a republican level, I am convinced. Just one thing, don't be lower than yourself, if you consider councillors in cities lower than yourself, don't humiliate them with these discussions in this assembly, so they don't know where they are, who they're with, how they're going to go on and what they're going to do. With the "yellows" won't, so don't spread that conflict between us, so that maybe Belgrade will even run out of local self-government. I have no reason to influence, you are all wise men, very reasonable, leading your political parties, leading the country until yesterday, maybe you'll be leading it again. I'm just appealing to you, this is a place for conflict, political, this is a place for different attitudes, this is a place where history and the future are intertwined. Let us not give cause for anything until that day, the famous day, July 14th, which is why our committees are sneezing for days, asking his mercy, Mr Boris Tadic, to only allow them to achieve the results they have made in the elections. Just one more time, we can talk about everything. Some personal insults fall here. It doesn't make sense. We're associates and friends. These "yellows" when I slip a little bit, they're all people chosen by the people. You know that we're working extremely well even in this room, and not just outside it, not to spread this conflict that seems to me to be beginning to escalate this National Assembly. Don't forget, we're in half, both of us. Remember, as proud as you feel of forming a government, we too lack three or four MPs to form a government. We're going to stand so strong in this congregation. That is why the National Assembly should not be broken, as a symbol of the unity of all voters who voted here. There's time, we'll fight with all the guns, just let us finish the work we started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u303	Thank you. Mr. Obradovic has the word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u304	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. On behalf of the SPS-PUPS-JS parliamentary group, I want to say that I really don't need to, believe me, to do things to others. As someone who replaces the president of the parliamentary group, I have an obligation to respond to everything we consider offensives, to everything we consider insinuations and to everything we consider incorrectly spoken claims, and to this coalition. If someone thinks they should talk about the SPS in the way they talk, it's his right, but I can't let them, as head of the parliamentary group, make those claims or they tend to run out of answers and I'll do it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u305	Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Bosko Ristic, you have the advantage, as a representative of the promoter. (Heading voices: There is no advantage over the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, you'll wait. Here you are, Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u306	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, with your support, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to return this debate to the agenda points. As much as they wanted to accept it or not, but all those who participated in these interparty poles forgot to discuss amendments to the Government Act. For another occasion, leave mutual differences, persuasion of coalition or pre-coalization meetings, describe yourself in some other situations. But you realize that we have 24 registered speakers for this item on the agenda, that after that, at least so many more people want to discuss amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, that there are more important topics to talk about, and that this unserious debate distances us from what must be the essence of our work, regardless of the fact that you were previously in the coalition, to mutual relations that are confusing at this point, to some other coalitions that are in place. Parliament must not be turned into what it has become in the last few discussions. I'm asking the deputies of the DSS and the Socialists, and we're going to act like that, so we can get back to this debate. There were no convincing arguments that would change our position and criticism of amendments to the Government Act, and Mr Dacic's descriptions, it's a non-serious policy and I think everyone understands how right those who describe such reactions are in the way they've done it so far. We were the same people yesterday and today and we'll be tomorrow. Only this Serbia is not like that. It's worse and it's going down, because it pays the price of irresponsible politics. The coalitions that have been made should receive their confirmation here in Parliament, or condemnation. Those who failed failed because they were not valid material from which they were made, but the congregation should be more serious and try to be serious to the extent that this moment is now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u307	Thank you. Mr. Aligrudic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u308	Article 104. I thank you for your kind words to Mr. Nikolic, but those words are a little insulting because it simply seems to me that they are not stabbing the essence of this debate that was just before. No one here intends to spoil any co-operation in any way, especially the signed coalition agreement at any level, especially no, God forbid, in the city of Belgrade. The DSS remains ultimately attached to the agreements it has signed, and that will be so until someone else changes their mind. It's very simple and simple. As for what Mr. Obradovic said, what is interesting in the whole case about this much bile exposure at the very beginning, of course, was called Mr. Obradovic, representing the interests of the SPS, because of the importance of the name of their president, I have clearly insinuated that the provision of the law has been changed because of him. Then, of course, in our polemics and recognised by Mr. Obradovic and it is quite clear, what we asked, we got the answer, now it is quite clear that the provision has been amended because of him. In order to inform the public, I will also say this - that in the agreements the Democratic Party of Serbia tried to make with the Socialist Party of Serbia and a group of parties with it on the list and with the Serbian Radical Party, it was explicitly stated that all agreements regarding the functions and importance of the Deputy Prime Ministers and the transfer of powers in special cases could be arranged by a government act, and by no amendment to the Law, that the existing Law would remain in force in that part. This is what was the subject of the talks, not going further into how powers would be transferred, in which case and in what situation, it would be possible to regulate it by means of a government act. That's the whole truth. I don't see the need for someone to feel called. When I said that law was wrong, I called all those I assumed wrote about it. It is impossible that only the Socialist Party of Serbia wrote a law ahead of us. You'd write someone else. It is impossible for the bill to see the light of day and appear in our parliamentary benches without DS, or G17 plus, having at least not read what it says. So those who signed the bill, handed over to the National Assembly counter and gave it to us, they all stand together behind the bill. I'm not making a controversy here with the SPS. Don't make the wrong impression. I'm just saying that my impression of why there's such a provision in the law that's unconstitutional and stupid to me, I have the right to say, why does she write like that? Then I received confirmation of this in the field with Mr. Zarko Obradovic, which I thank him very much for; and that, in the end, was correct, and it gave me confirmation of certain political attitudes that I made. There is nothing that spoils future relations, if these relations are based on some of the principles that are politically determined, to establish, as were those principles on which we wanted to make a responsible national government. That wasn't possible now, obviously because someone didn't want to. Maybe next time it'll be possible. Not that I don't want to run, but I can't run. As it is also necessary to make a different coalition in the city of Belgrade, where we have had great disagreements with the way the city of Belgrade is run in some essential things, when it comes to building facilities, important infrastructure facilities, investing financial resources in essential projects... (President: Time. That's what matters to us, but it has nothing to do with this story. It's only pointed out here and exclusively to the law that lies ahead of us. He's characterized on my side as he's characterized, someone might like it or not like it, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u309	Mr. Vladan Batic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u310	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise violation of Article 105 – maintaining order at the session. That applies to you, ma'am. During today's debate, we heard a series of qualifications and disqualifications from individual speakers at the expense of other fellow Members. They heard the expressions - thieves, thieves, small, rainy, garbage, etc. In no word have you tried to, in accordance with the powers of the President of Parliament to maintain order at the session, react. That is how Parliament's dignity is insulted. The bill has a number of shortcomings, but it can be reasoned. Here we have something in place from the time of that movie, Akir Kurosava "Rashomon", that can be plastically depicted in the work of this Parliament, how the same things or the same people are observed and seen in different ways. While an MP who was said to be short and rainy was on the other side, he must have been tall, thin, elegant. He was covered by all the superlatives. And now it's all upside down. It's not time to talk about any Kurosava movies or anyone else. Serbia is in a serious situation. It is not time for individual disqualifications of anyone, for insulting the reputation and dignity of individual Members and Parliament, because tomorrow, gentlemen, perhaps, you will probably be on the same side, and then this will be written into someone's biographies as a cheap attempt to disqualify some people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u311	Thank you. The word is Mr. Bosko Ristic, just tell us in what capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u312	As a representative of the Proposer. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to return the debate to its course in accordance with the agenda and I'd like to make two remarks in line with the views expressed during the previous debate. It has often been said here that this law is against the constitution, although such a law does not come under ban from any constitutional norm. I'd like to hear the constitutional code where it says that we can't have a law like this. I have already pointed out that some legal solutions have been applied in other laws. It has been said here that inappropriate norms relating to the Deputy Prime Minister are helping the President to direct the government's policy, etc. He says it's inappropriate and it's stupid. I must remind the MPs that the Vice-President of the National Assembly is also in accordance with Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, which have the power of the law, shall assist the President of the National Assembly in carrying out work from his work, in the same way as these gentlemen, vice-presidents, will assist their President, so the Deputy Prime Minister will assist the Prime Minister and direct him to politics and government. That's the parallel. It is the law on amendments to the Government Act that is an example of the development of constitutional matter at the legal level. The way to decide to share votes in the collective decision-making body can be arranged so that the president of that body can have this so-called "golden voice" is, for example, given in the Law on Criminal Procedure in criminal court councils, when it is decided on punishment, when it is to decide on guilt. Therefore, our constitutional and legal system knows such a situation, and for each branch of government it is appropriate to regulate in such a way the position of one who manages the Presidency of certain authorities, but that privilege is given only to a Assembly that can regulate such a single situation. Otherwise, decision-making in collective bodies is appropriate for the reason we have it in constitutional practice. The Constitutional Court in its Rules of Procedure has such a provision that the vote of the President of the Constitutional Court can be decisive if the votes of the Constitutional Court are divided. Therefore, if it were contrary to the Constitutional Court Rules of Procedure, it would be put out of force by the Constitutional Court itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u313	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bosko Ristic has for years been interpreting some draft laws insulting my dignity. Imagine, now he said that the Constitution does not prohibit the existence of a Deputy Prime Minister and therefore may be Deputy Prime Minister, no one can deny it. The constitution does not forbid it to go to red light, so why do you forbid us to go to red light when the Constitution does not forbid it? How do you think the Constitution regulates life in Serbia, so think about whether you are once next to the vice president who predicted the Constitution to predict the vice president. Then why didn't you provide for the deputy deputy, so you wouldn't be banned from the Constitution? He can't, Mr. Ristic. Let's see that Constitutional Court of yours, too, and put him on the first good check, let's see if that Constitutional Court can rule as Boris Tadic tells him. Let's also get these people out of science, out of respect, out of name, at least in which party they're in, see if they'll stand behind that pointless provision of yours that the Prime Minister has a Deputy Prime Minister - Deputy Prime Minister. Now, to find that provision in the Constitution, I'll give you a big apology from here. I really believe there are honest people in that Constitutional Court. Some of them I know are other political options, but they can't do anything. Well, they're not the presidents of the National Assembly, so they're not ministers, they're not board presidents, so it's not all about money, people, it's about honor and glory. The people of science, the people of feathers leave behind a piece. Judges leave the verdict behind. What do you want, to demean them so much that they remain behind such a solution or to remain behind them a solution that is properly called a session of the National Assembly that no one has called? We can now invite you to the Belgrade City Assembly, meet me in the O.R., and we don't know who invited us, no one will stand behind the calling paper, there's enough of us to decide what we're going to do then. You've built here, chosen the president of the National Assembly with a sufficient number of votes. The chairman said he didn't invite us, there's no trace of him calling us, but you had the right to make a decision, you had 126 votes for it. Don't make us take that hiducia any further, don't make people fight in the congregation and in the halls, fight in the streets because you're the only one who's right, or maybe you're the only one who has the police. And what are the police going to do, beat the people? It wasn't even done when you were on the street, the police avoided beating you. They were in your head, but other people weren't, you can see, you can't see others. I apologize to those who were beaten in the head, they had lasting consequences, and this second... It was a time when judges served to achieve their goals through them, and besides, we did experience it at a time when the Socialist Party of Serbia thought it was as powerful as you, and the judges put us in jail without the administrative board's decisions, the judge for the offence forced us to go to jail for 60 days. You want to rule like that? Let me tell you fate right now. You're lucky for us to be unacceptable on October 5th, otherwise, we'd have been hanging out a long time ago, who knows what would happen to you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u315	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u316	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament have come forward in accordance with Article 101. If I understand you, Mr. Ristic, you have tried to respond to our remarks that the amendments to the Government Act are against the constitution, and that member in which it is practically introduced into our political life by the institution of Deputy Prime Minister, and the argument for your idea you find and build on the fact that it is not anti-constitutional because the Constitution does not exclude it. So enough that you don't have a foothold in the Constitution to keep this norm in line with the Constitution. It's something that's paradoxical. It is clear that this is the price of a political coalition, just as it is obvious that in 2008 it is unacceptable to make government by adapting the interests of the state to the interests of a coalition. It's just that you have to know who's older. At this point, the country's constitution is older, which in a very clear way prescribed the post of Deputy Prime Minister. From the fact that the prescribed post of Deputy Prime Minister has not been concluded that the post of Deputy Prime Minister, that is, the first Deputy Prime Minister, is against the constitution, because it is contrary to the post of Deputy Prime Minister who has so far existed. It is true that there are some examples where you can look for your foothold. There were temporary deputy ministers, but the deputy minister's post was prescribed by law and was not against the constitution. The Deputy Prime Minister, or first Deputy Prime Minister, is a political function and you are aware of this, but we as an opposition do not agree that the government is being built in an anti-constitutional manner. It is true that the Constitutional Court will declare this, that it cannot be spoken quickly, but with our criticism we are trying to help you because in the future you will have to pay the price of your coalition, so let them know that it is not easy and let them appreciate your efforts. I repeat again, in 2000, our intention to change the country was in conflict with the order of the country itself. You know it was impossible to implement reforms, to realise a transition in society, to privatise a country that was a constitutionally guaranteed social property, but we tried something in that paradox. This is 2008. There is no justification for the request for the act of your ruling coalition, which you are now trying to please. One coalition cannot be built by denying the country's legal order. With a message like this, you step on the Constitution. If you step on the Constitution, if that's what the government does, then why does someone else have to respect that same constitution or the law of this country? If the government is building its concept on lawlessness, then it will be a rule for every other citizen of this country and that is why we stand up to such a thing. The function of Deputy Prime Minister has no foothold in either the Constitution, nor the law, is thus against the constitution, as Article 125. The constitution makes it very clear what duties are, what role the Prime Minister is, prescribes the right of vice president, one or more, but determines the right of the first vice president. Why would Mr. Dacic, under this law, have more rights than any other Deputy Prime Minister, than Mr. Krkobibic, Mladjan Dinkic? Who's going to be vice president, we don't know yet, but it's unacceptable to introduce the post of Deputy Prime Minister. We do not have a Vice-President of Parliament, we have a walk of Vice-Presidents of Parliament, this has come from the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The post of vice president stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but we do not have the post of deputy president of Parliament. As it is unacceptable for us to introduce Deputy President of Parliament, it is equally unacceptable and it is obviously paradoxical in the same way to introduce the post of Deputy Prime Minister. You didn't answer this question of "golden voice." It's something that's in itself a big problem and it's also unsustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u317	Ms Natasa Jovanovic, Advertises Business, Article 31, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u318	Madam President of the Assembly, I do not advertise, I want to point to Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, to try and teach Mr. Ristic something, because he is indeed at the level of a non-legal dilettor, I don't know how, I've known him for eight years, since the National Assembly had 308 MPs, he was the chairman of the Administrative Board. And then, at one point when he was chairman of the Administrative Committee, the Assembly had, unfortunately, because of some tragic events of 248 MPs, so he gave the chairmanship of the Assembly the interpretation that the National Assembly had 248 MPs, so from the moment he started to organize those expensive seminars according to Milosevic and who knows where, to write the preamble of the Constitution, since then, as the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, 'I fell, I crashed', and you are breaking up more and more into paramparcics, Mr. Ristic. If you could find that insurmountable (I don't know how else to say it without using a rougher term) comparison as before, that this exclusive vice president, the Deputy Prime Minister, is the same thing as the Vice President of the National Assembly, then I really don't know how long that legal mind of yours and your knowledge goes and what you'll be able to invent tomorrow and tell us here. It's obvious you weren't listening. So, in a number of examples, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic said that the Russian State Duma, I suppose you should know, but you obviously are not interested in the Russians or their Duma as it works, has the first deputy president of the Russian State Duma; it is usually someone from the strongest opposition political party, i.e. last time, I think it was a colleague of Mr. Grizzlov from Unique Russia, Mrs. Slisk. As regards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as regards six vice-presidents, namely one to six, that is a decision, vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ristic, which is set out in Article 31. The Rules of Procedure, and thus should have such status both in the executive and vice-president of the government under the Constitution of our country, and you are now changing it, they are helping in the absence of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. replacing it. You don't think any of us will have any exclusive rights or that Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I've known her for so many years, will take over the role that she decides and revotes with her colleagues? She'd never have thought of anything like that in her life. So don't give such examples of your ignorance, Mr. Ristic. If you see and it is obvious, and so much knowledge as you have as a lawyer, that you have violated the Constitution and that it is impossible, that we have really a Constitutional Court as we do not have it, because there is only a political like Boris Tadic, I should remind you of Dragis Slepčević, who is a very equident example that should not be in the municipal court, let alone in the Constitutional Court of our country, then say you have no more reason to answer. You've told us everything, you've explained everything to us, but don't continue to step on this and this kind of example, because what our people would say is "don't drink water." One day when we have a Constitutional Court, when he decides not only on this, but on everything that stands there and which is valuable and hardworking Mr Krasic through the performances of the SRS directed, so there he is waiting... They once called him and never again, and by one play he wrote. It doesn't matter, slow but affordable, for a few years at any time, but you will enter the annals of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, personally you, Bosko Ristic, as someone who, by his legal interpretations, has been insinuating both the National Assembly and harshly trampled the Constitution and all the positive legal norms in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u319	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is not the first time that DS is used in a very dangerous legal and political thesis, which is that everything that is not prohibited by the Constitution is allowed. That thesis, Mr. Ristic, that's what you as a lawyer should know, it only makes sense when it comes to subjective rights of citizens. So, as an individual, a citizen can do anything but what is explicitly forbidden by the Constitution and the law. When it comes to constitutional standards on authorities, these norms have an imperative character, have a cognitive character, can only be interpreted as they say and no different. There is no way to apply the principle, it is allowed because the Constitution is not prohibited. What the founder wanted to say about the authorities, including the government, he said, and there is no more absolute space for what is written in the Constitution to change, supplement, interpret in one way or another. It is indisputable, we talked about it today and at the session of the Legislative Committee, that the National Assembly of Government is passing legislation. We've never told the SRS that the matter of government work, its organization, should not be regulated by law. Even the Legislative Committee today incorrectly called in its report for a legal basis for submitting its report, instead of calling for Article 45, which says that the Legislative Committee votes on whether the draft law is in accordance with the Constitution or not. He called, if I am not mistaken, Verice, to a member of 79 who has nothing to do with the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Anyway, Mr. Ristic, Article 125. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is completely clear. What you wrote in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act absolutely does not stand. It's an extremely dangerous thesis, because today-to-morrow you could pass a law on, say, establishing a camp for political opponents. Find me a constitutional code that says there's no such thing. So, if you apply this thesis, when it comes to the authorities, as you apply it today in Serbia, clearly individual rights of citizens, political opponents, will be raised to a major question. Who knows what the state is going to get kicked out of and how the state's apparatus is going to work. It might occur to you that you're educating some of them and they're terminating the court. The formation of broken courts may not be explicitly prohibited by the Constitution, etc. So, Mr. Ristic this thesis – it's allowed because the Constitution is not forbidden to make sense and you as a lawyer should know that. Let's say, when a contract is concluded, let's say, the provisions of the Bond Law have a dissuasive character. The parties can agree on the content of their contract themselves, and only if they have not agreed on something is the provision of the Bond Relations Act, but these are civil rights norms. This is about public law standards. Constitutional law is a fundamental branch of public law and your interpretation absolutely makes no sense, you are, in fact, when you say that you are not the right MPs to point to the unconstitutionalness of the bill in a very harsh way, to trample the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u321	According to Article 93(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, were submitted by SRS, DSS-NS and LDP parliamentary groups. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Maras, and let Aleksandra Jankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would at first refer to what the distinguished Mr. Ristic just said. I am truly greatly surprised and disappointed by your interpretation of what you have given. I expected you to try to give a meaningful answer at least to a part of the questions that were raised here. I don't know if it's necessary. The constitution, which makes it perfectly clear what the powers of the Prime Minister are. There is no word here about what you have tried to insert in these amendments and additions to the Government Act, in Article 13, or to invent Article 13a. I think that Article 13 of the current Government Act is in the best way possible to address the issues of the authority of the Deputy Prime Minister and I believe that your proposal to delete Article 3 is completely unwarranted, which opens the door to Article 13a that you have provided for to be entered into the Government Act. I think it's a big mistake, that you're going to do something that's already been said several times today. First, the Constitution breaks. Secondly, you will put one situation into which everyone will later be able to call, as has been said so far. I, first of all, am troubled by a few questions. The first question is why you're breaking the Constitution. You are fully aware that this is a violation of the Constitution and I am really interested in what is the reason that you are now coming to the idea that you are violating the Constitution. I think you can come up with a much more comfortable solution that you've come up with. The second question that bothers me very much is why do you need it? Do you not trust the prime minister, who I suppose will be Mr Cvetkovic, whether you really owe so much to Mr Dacic, who is presumed to be the deputy, or about what Mr Nikolic tried to amortise, what Mr Aligrudic was saying, so as not to have some split of the envisioned coalition in Belgrade, or some possible one that should be created. Since we as a parliamentary group don't have much time, I'd just like to use one more thing to ask you, Mr. Ristic, as an authorised promoter -- are you aware of what kind of example you're setting, by breaking the Constitution this way? I'm afraid all the consequences for this will eventually have to be borne by someone. There's no need to break the Constitution like this. Today, at the beginning of the debate, our chief of Parliament's club said that we are ready to listen to the reasons why these changes are being made, at the very end of the line and adopt them if there is a strong argument, but unfortunately, we have not received such an argument. You're breaking the Constitution, and you're trying to convince us all here that you're not doing it. I think the public has already seen enough, and all the other speakers, especially from the LDP, will point to this violation of the Constitution. You should take advantage of these few days, since the debate on these two laws has been split, to think about it well, to come up with amendments to this law, to accept the amendments that the Liberal Democratic Party has tabled, simply, this law should be withdrawn from breaking the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u323	The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jankovic, has the word, and let the Verse of Radet be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u324	God, the citizens of Serbia, is helping! Admitting you or not that God exists, I am convinced, after studying this amendment to the Law, that we will all need his help, not only because of the law, but because of the motives embedded in the laws on government and ministries. Since I am not a lawyer, but only a blonde and psychologist, I am aware that unlike one of my colleagues who is an amateur doctor of legal science, and a person in the role of Serbian President, my discussion will not be nominated for the best legal word, but I am just asking questions that are also asked by Serbian citizens, who are also not doctors of law, although they are often expected to do so, even for filling out a simple payment card. What is the reason for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, and what is burning? Is normal practice in other democratic countries, to which the creators of this law are constantly called, to change every new government and the Government Act? No one denies the fact that Serbia needs a government that works, but the existing law does not compromise the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions, as it is in the light of the bill. It also states that it is necessary for this law to be passed by emergency procedure, thereby preventing possible adverse effects on the work of the state authorities. What does that mean? That there are no real harmful consequences, but that the amendments to the law are made preventively, because there can be them somewhere and sometimes. Proposers would have to decide if we go from regular to regular, what is so urgent and if there are some real consequences, and if there are which and if possible, the same question, what is the damage and when it is estimated to occur? As it turns out, urgency is just a matter of political trade and blackmail. A few people have drawn my attention that this law is passed quickly to form the government as soon as possible and silence critical tones from the opposition, which are made in the Republic of Parliament by the SRS and our DSS-NS coalition. It is as if the message is that by July 14, we do not have to wave much, for whoever wants a bigger one can lose out of the bag. He won't do it! At the republican, regional and local level, we will act in accordance with the powers given to us by citizens, not by interesting political groups, and we will be people of words. The alleged urgency has led to the first draft law of the "Semafor Coalition" being an illegal and contrary decision of the Constitutional Court. On the side that our Constitution does not know the institution of Deputy Prime Minister and the revote in the government, it is obvious that the new authorities suffer from serious suspicions among themselves, and instead of having the first among the same as the prime minister, they must strengthen his specific weight, while also providing him with an alter ego in the image of the first vice president, the deputy who replaces him during his absence or prevention. What's the new prime minister going to be so busy with to assume that he will often be prevented or absent? The party's discipline, briefings with the party's president, who accepted it as a compromise solution because he could not push his favorite, but also allow the party to win the match with him. Does this mean that Prime Minister Cvetkovic will show a significant presence of the body and the absence of freedom of the spirit, because he will be controlled by Tadic's trust or service? If it is still the current prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, has repeatedly warned that the constitutional rule that the work of the Security Service is controlled by the National Assembly, then the current president of Serbia as part of the country's understanding of "state, that is me" does not allow anyone to control the service except him. Dacic will give an illusion that he really manages the MUP, with the work of the minister and the SPS to be controlled by deputies, state secretaries from the DS, as well as BIA, the military and finance. It's sad, because the red part of the "semaphor coalition" was actually given a red light and a blockage of operational ingenuities. The Reds will play a more advisory role and an illusion of power, and true rulers will be "trembling yellow", of which a blessing will also be sought for inhaling. I wonder how Mr. Dacic will feel when he's "yellow" as his first task of the warrant finds, extradites the fugitives or just says – excuse me, brothers? A long time ago, the military minister said he had no intention of defending the country, and as he learned from the former Army minister, he could not keep weapons from falling out of the truck, let alone four and a half tanks. He doesn't get involved much in his business, man. He was advocating the lift of the ramps in front of JUL's department, playing bodyguard to Mr. Kundaku, until he realized that the devil had taken a joke with a bodyguard who didn't even know how many bullets there were in the clip, let alone how the gun was repetited. That's why, man, real shots without shooting, with singing – I'll break the glass of crystal. And he would personally arrest all the Hague refugees, but it won't be in his jurisdiction. From the defense's ingenuity he has so far shown only a firm position that, surrounded by solid boys, the bare-handed defense B 92 of the least satisfied viewers of this TV house, the poisoners. But let's get back to the Government Act. Slobodan Jovanovic spoke – The government, or cabinet of ministers, should be homogeneous, compact, harmonious and solidarity. If we look at this government from Jovanovic's prism, it is exactly the opposite of what should be. All right, it's really impossible to achieve an ideal consensus between 17 such diverse parties. But is that an accident? And the 17 NATO states that bombed us had an agreement on what their goal was - to demolize, degrade and destroy the state of Serbia. Is it possible that basically this same group is the same motive, by order of the same mentors who defined the crime against the people as the release of the people from the totalitarian system and from the system of identified dictators? I don't want to believe it's true, but I fear that in the "semaphora coalition" only the "yellow" know well what they're doing and consciously and deliberately, with the overly silent approval of the "green" who are minding their own business, but also the manipulation of the "yellow" part of the "red" who haven't lost their sense of national, state and Serbian. The sly "yellows" explained to the Socialists that the national interest can wait, because soon as we're a state and a nation we'll drown in the famous European Union, and when we drown, we'll meet our country's country's country's country's country's country's friends in happiness and joy without borders again. By the way, we're a little out of state and a little more national identity, but life in another form can't wait. That's our karma, it will be. I can't believe that honest socialists caught on to a pseudo-budistic, actually, sectarian philosophy where, like Judah, once, for a handful of silversmiths, they would betray both ancestors and descendants and Christ himself. After all, what social justice will socialists be able to achieve when all the key ministries for implementing social programs take these from G 17 plus, and the money and power of those from DS? The SPS did not get what it asked for, so it will pay its resignation from the national government in favour of the socially responsible government, as if these two objectives were mutually exclusive, passive and subordinated role models they give, but would be to degrade the state. What will the martyr Krkobibic, as vice-president of the ministry, in charge of social affairs, really do independently and without blessing from Minister of Social Affairs Rasim Ljajic? At best, he'll be a counselor. Will you allow Zarka Obradovic, as minister of education, to enter into the historical readings a part about NATO's aggression against the Serb population? I doubt it, especially while Tadic is the formal president and the informal prime minister of the Serbian government. In psychology, there is, as described, a basic defence mechanism – projection. It is, in Serbian terms, the attribution of other own motives, needs and ambitions. The entire Democratic Party pre-election campaign, and especially its "red" thread on how it should not vote for national options because they offer a return to the 1990s, is a projection. The one who's actually trying to get us back into totalitarian time and who's been raised in a non-democratic titoist spirit as the best exponent of "and after Tito Tito" is that the paradox is bigger, and the president of the party that has the "democratic" sign. To make things worse, he is now in the role of Serbian President. Just as democratic as he is the president of all citizens. That is why in Serbia, along with the minority rights ministry, the long-standing necessary formation of the ministry of the rights of the endangered majority is ours. Since he needs all power and control, and because of foreign mentors must preserve the vision of democracy, he could not be both king and queen, both president and prime minister. That's why he made sure he puts his abdominals in all the pores of state tissue and controls them. There is no separation of legislative, executive and judicial authorities – the authority is one and personified. Whoever has objections will receive a yellow card in the form of serious threats, as was addressed to my party's president, Nova Serbia, Velimir Ilic, if they do not 'democracy', he does not die of red card. I don't think it's random at all, because from the marketing team it comes from (a pre-election campaign by Boris Tadic) selected a song that he with a deep path and sang himself – which no one can, you can. Indeed, what no one can do, you can form a government like this, lead and represent Serbia. The question is, what can we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u325	Thank you. The word is Verse Radet, and let Mrs Vesna Pesic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we listen to today all day long and before we moved to the agenda we talked about what is actually a topic of the agenda, which is – how this session was called, why this sort of thing was on the agenda of a bill that was unconstitutional and I don't think it's unclear anymore. Why have we not yet received the answer to the question – what was the motive and reason why you had to do so urgently, exceeding all possible business provisions, to propose this law to us, and why does it have to be passed so urgently? No one's answered that yet. If it's the pressures from The Hague -- you arrested Stojan Zupljanin and without a new government, you, part, who will now form this new government, have already managed to do so. I don't know what else might be your motive to do it so quickly? I don't think anyone, really anyone, is concerned that today we're talking about an entirely unconstitutional text of the law. Mr. Ristic, I see he's out. He tried to convince us that the legal basis for the adoption of this law was Article 135. A constitution that says literally: "The government is governed by law". So that's what Article 135 contains. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This certainly can't be the legal basis for the law we're discussing today. I don't know why DS is playing with Bosca Ristic like that. Every time he does something that's contrary to the Constitution, something that's illegally planted by Bosko Ristic. This law is clear to us that you will adopt it, i.e. 126 or 129 MPs, but Bosko Ristić will remain remembered and registered as someone who advocated something that is completely unconstitutional. Why do I say – why is it that every time Bosko Ristić? So I remind you of the time when DS excluded the entire DSS parliamentary group, when the Constitutional Court decided that all these MPs would return to the assembly benches and that at one point we had 308 MPs in the Assembly who had 250 MPs under the Constitution. At that time, the congregation had to pay the appropriate amount to those MPs for all the time they were not in the congregation benches. I don't know why the previous government didn't call Bosko Ristic to account and why we still don't know if anyone will answer because he did such material damage to the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, as Bosko Ristic did then. It wasn't enough for him, now, man, to crash again, to convince us that Wednesday, about what his argument looks like, because there is no excessive, reasonable and reasonable explanation that any citizen of Serbia, who is a full layman for law, could convince us that we are wrong, all of us who today are trying to direct you and tell you – it's okay, gentlemen, you've provided a congregation majority, you want to change the Law on Government, it's your right, you can do it, but do it in accordance with the Constitution. Don't make us talk all day and draw the public's attention to how the government will function, how the government will be elected in the first place, when we have a bill like this, and certainly you will adopt it these days. There was also talk here that the Constitutional Court would one day declare this law. Madam, Parliament Speaker said she, too, would launch an initiative at the Constitutional Court to examine constitutionality and legality. Of course, it will be done by the SRS parliamentary group, we said, but not because we expect Tadic's Constitutional Court to rush to resolve these initiatives. He won't. Do you know when he'll solve it? When the deadline for this government has not yet been formed, a new congregation majority is formed. It'll be in some drawer by then. I just remind my fellow MPs that the Constitutional Court, it wasn't that long ago, I hope we haven't forgotten, acted very urgently under official duty. Remember when we passed the Law on the Protection of the Families of The Hague indictees, when the current persecution of the Slobodan Milosevic family, in this parliament we managed to secure the majority, we passed the law, but the law never came into force, and not one day was implemented, because then, also, Tadic's Constitutional Court, very effectively, during the night, declared the law unconstitutional and illegal. So, the Constitutional Court, if it will, and now I publicly call upon the Constitutional Court judges to show and prove us that we are wrong when we claim to be a political court, and they are, let me be denied, I would be pleased to admit that tomorrow or in two days' time, it is a really professional court, because they will declare this law unconstitutional. Of course, as for the argument that Mr. Ristic was trying to bring out here, we saw that he himself was very confused and that he was obviously embarrassed that he got that hot cake in his hand, but it's really his problem and he'll have to deal with it himself. Mr Ristic did not say here, but he said this morning on the Committee on Justice and Management that such examples exist in parallel legal practice. We asked him here, but he didn't say where. This morning he said such examples exist in Croatia and Slovenia. I don't think that, with our history and our legal tradition, we should be copying from Croatia and Slovenia. If you have to copy what they say to you by order of the EU, you don't have to copy from our neighbours just because at that moment you're comfortable with such a solution and in order for you to be able to say "we haven't invented anything, it already exists". The story that my colleague Ristic was trying to tell us, about how they're solving a steam court council, I don't know where there's a steam court. If there is a three-member and five-member court council, the judge individual is not even. So, I don't know where Bosko Ristic saw it. I'm sure it's his turn in front of his lawyer's office in Nis, that the citizens are coming to take his powers, to take their cases, to see that a man who knows so little about the law certainly can't represent them, since he's a lawyer in Nis. This bill, which we're talking about, has only five members. It might seem strange to someone why we need so long to talk about such a small law. I'm going to run a very short analysis of each member. In the Government Act, Article 1 states: "Article 13(3) is deleted. The present position 4 becomes heading 3." Item 3, which is deleted, reads: "The Prime Minister determines the Deputy Prime Minister who replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister, except for the power to propose elections or to dismiss a member of the Government." What did we get instead of this Article 13 attitude? We received Article 13a, which reads: "The Prime Minister determines one Deputy Prime Minister for the First Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister, who replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister, except by the authority to propose an election or discharge of a member of the Government. The first Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister assists the Prime Minister in leading and directing the government, caring for the unity of the government's political functioning and coordinating the work of government members. In all other words, the position of the first Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister – shall be subject to the provisions of this law relating to the Vice-President of the Government accordingly." Article 125. The RS constitution says, "The government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers." So this: "The First Vice-President – Vice-President" does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that the colleagues who spoke today about this bill and bid some names here, I'd rather say you're on the wrong track. It seems to me that this place is reserved for Mladjan Dinkic, because it is he who wants to manage the Prime Minister in this way, as Pandam Boris Tadic, who will also manage the Prime Minister, so that the Prime Minister will probably put a signature somewhere on paper. It's his only role in the future government. Article 3 says, "Article 26 of Article 1 adds a new position to Article 2 which reads: "In the event that the Government has an even number of members, the government's decision has been made and if at least half of all government members vote for it, on condition that the Prime Minister voted in favour of a decision." Bosko Ristic, who is trying to explain and explain this, probably watched a lot of quizs. You remember that Quisco. This Article 3 is, in fact, "Kvisko" in the hands of Boris Tadic through Mirko Cvetkovic, the future Prime Minister. So it's unacceptable, there's no legal basis in our legal system, and there's no logical explanation or reason for how someone in an organ could be worth two people. There's really no reason here, come out now and ask the citizens who watched what we're doing today and listened to us, ask if they know someone they'd let be worth two men and vote like two people, you're certainly not going to see or hear it anywhere. So, we have, though, examples of ourselves, we're going to do it one other day, because I've spent a lot of time stealing from the election, and then the prosecution rejects charges for insults of honor and respect, because it realizes that someone who sues has no honor, no respect. It'll be another day. Article 4 of this Law states: "The Legislative Committee of the National Assembly is hereby authorised to establish the consolidated text of the Government Act." Of course, there is no point in this article if these two are under question, or as far as Serbian radicals are concerned, they cannot survive in this law. The law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Of course, we have suggested eradicating this article, because there is no point in the existence of this member if these previous ones are deleted, even if all this remains, there is no legal reason contained in Article 196(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the law should be passed by emergency procedure. Article 196. The Constitution, in paragraph 4, says: "Laws and other general acts shall enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, for their adoption." No one has convinced us that there are particularly justified reasons for the passing of laws like this. You see, today you didn't provide a majority, just to remind the citizens of Serbia, and you failed to bring together a debate on these two laws and you won't be able to form a government on Wednesday or Thursday, as you plan. You'll make it in a few days. Nothing's disputed. That's exactly what we've been telling you all day, do what you've got the congregation majority secured, but don't be ashamed of your colleagues from the profession, I'm talking first of all to the lawyers, and you who aren't lawyers, politicians are. I hope you understood our messages. So I call on the MPs to take care of the integrity of the National Assembly, because we will have a totally certain attack from all sides of the professional public because we are passing unconstitutional laws, and then all of you who vote for it violate the reputation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u327	The word is by MP Nenad Prokic, the Liberal Democratic Party, and let Milan Lakcevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u328	Your Honor, we've already talked about unconstitutionalness, and now I'd like to say something about another kind of impudence to these additions to the Government Act. They're more or less formal insolence, but it doesn't reduce its weight. The explanation Section V brings us to the situation we were afraid of. He says: "The passing of this law by emergency procedure is of particular importance for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions, which is not feasible when the existing Government Act is still in force in an unchanged version. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure, thereby preventing possible adverse consequences for the work of the national authorities." I find this quite illiterate, and it shows the lack of knowledge of the native language, the mixing of the term, because it's no reason. An explanation in Serbian is something else. What is the "special importance" and what is "inviolability in the unchanged version" and what is "emergency" that cannot explain itself. So, what kind of explanation is that that doesn't explain anything, but makes fun of us? Not from empty findings, no explanation. Then, Section IV says, "The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget." What does that mean? That the vice president won't have a salary or any addition to it? Or that he will not have any expense in performing his duties? This must be more precisely recorded in order to become clear what it is, or promotes the principle: what content and cost. So, the point is, in short, that these arguments are not arguments. The question is, what are they? Is she here to explain something or to cover up one aspect of the truth? I think this illiterate argument is another in a series of shames brought before us and the citizens of Serbia. I'm sorry I have to discuss it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u329	Thank you. The word has Milan Lapcevic, and I ask Mr Alexander Martinovic to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u330	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today on the agenda of the Law on Government, and we today need to consider amending and supplementing the Law on Government so that the newly created congregation majority can form a government. Each government stems from a single congregation majority, and each congregation majority should first coordinate one of its own policies, on the basis of its common policies, the government. This common policy is determined between the coalition partners who participated in the elections and who represented some attitudes in these elections, i.e. the election campaign, and there is already a problem, because the newly created assembly majority apparently represented different attitudes in the pre-election campaign, and now creates the majority from which the government should emerge. That government needs to implement some common policy. So coalition partners, on the one hand, coalitions around the DS, i.e. "For European Serbia", and, on the other hand, coalitions around the SPS, agreed on a common policy. It is very strange that the parties, or coalitions that represented a completely different position in the pre-election campaign, now establish a common policy. I would like to remind you that in the election campaign, Mr Dacic, who is the leader of the coalition around the SPS, said he will never make a coalition with Boris Tadic, or the Democratic Party. In the same campaign, Boris Tadic said he had no idea he was building a government with the parties of the 1990s, probably referring to those parties that led the government in the 1990s, or above all to the SPS. How is it possible now that after the election, a common policy is determined by those parties who led a completely different pre-election campaign? So someone here cheated on the citizens. Let's see who fooled the citizens here. The Socialist Party of Serbia, or its leader, said the SPS will not give up its policy; that all the objectives and priorities that the Socialist Party of Serbia has put forward in the pre-election campaign remain in force and that it will also represent those same views and that same policy in the government. So, since the DS, or the coalition around the DS, has said nothing about it, it is obvious, if the common policy of the future government, that the coalition around the DS has accepted, in fact, the SPS policy. That is what this common policy is all about. The common policy, which will actually be the SPS policy, will lead Serbia towards the EU, Serbian President Boris Tadic said. The government law, as proposed, is at the beginning anti-constitutional. My predecessors have explained what he is against; Article 2 which says there is the first Deputy Prime Minister, there is absolutely no support in the Constitution, and even less formulation of the Deputy Prime Minister. If it is said that he is the first Deputy Prime Minister, there is still a Deputy Prime Minister and that the first vice president is in fact some vice president with more powers, or the oldest in power. That oldest in power from the vice president... The majority here expressed the likelihood of talking about SPS President Ivica Dacic. I would say it would be logical and normal for that first vice president, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobabic, to be a great leader of the constitutive session of the Assembly. The oldest is as an MP, so it would be a turn to be the oldest vice president by age and by authority. The Deputy Prime Minister, or First Vice-President, will have the authority to take care of the unity of the government's political functioning and to coordinate the work of government members. Since it will likely be Mr. Ivica Dacic, it means that he will try, as minister of police, that all members of the government think the same thing, and that he will use police methods to do so and to implement a single government policy. All in all, it is seen in the beginning that there is nothing here that has been said in the pre-election campaign, that at the beginning the citizens of Serbia have been deceived and that this is one commercial government, for the simple reason that the ministries, as proposed in the ministry law, have been so created and distributed, so that as much as possible, all appetites can be settled, that the principle of "golden voice" is introduced, which is also against the law and unconstitutional. Obviously, there is no trust among coalition partners at the start, so in any case, there must be a possibility if there is a half-half vote. What kind of government is it that in adopting government laws, which must run a single state policy, it says in advance that there will be no single state policy and that the possibility of a golden vote must be foreseen in order to make decisions. This clearly says that there is no "j" here from a single policy, that the government will very soon show that it is an interesting and commercial government and that it will come to an end very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u331	Thank you. The word is Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, so let Mr Zoran Ostojic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u332	I ask you, Mrs. Djukic, to return my time to the beginning, because it began to run before I got to the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is written in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act can be viewed with three levels, from three levels. It can be viewed from a political level, legal and purely practical. What does the political plane look like? It seems that those who have written the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act are not clear about what the Government is, what kind of state body is and what its functions are. Thank God, the Serbian language is such a language that the very word in certain situations marks the essence of one thing. This is exactly the case with the term - Government. The government is the state body that needs to rule the country's opportunities, be absolutely unique in any situation and can respond to all the challenges it poses in one quick and efficient way. It's government. What is now being made in Serbia is not a government. This is one artificial majority, one coalition of grandmothers and frogs and themselves is clear, already at the beginning, before the government was elected, that this and such government, artificially scribbled, by false Chetniks and false partisans, by the autonomists and those who allegedly are not, cannot function for long. Even if constitutionally what it says in the Bill of Government, even if there is absolutely no legal shadow, the question is what kind of government is. Supposedly unique, it runs a single policy, and on the other hand there is a revote and the need for one man's voice, in this case the Prime Minister, to be seen as two votes. It is obvious that the government will not be able to meet those challenges that lie ahead of it. It is obvious that the government will not have the ends of the state government in its own hands and it is obvious that what the legislators do not want to say publicly, which is that this government will, in fact, have a tutor in the image of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. While he manages to balance the various interests of members of the government, the government will function. As soon as he comes into the first trouble, those who have a majority in the government will remember that the Government Act contains a provision – if votes are distributed half-and-a-half, the Prime Minister's vote is decided. It's not the government that's described in the legal textbooks. It is a conglomerate of political parties and people who have nothing in common with each other, except a mere desire to rule and to make some of their, very often private, financial interests come true. What is the legal dimension of this law? Very simple. Article 125. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear: "The government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers." There is absolutely no mention of any deputy prime minister or any first vice president of the government. It is clear that those who wrote the Bill on Government did not know what state body it was, so they said, so said Mr Bosko Ristic today at a plenary session and at a committee session, how such practice allegedly exists in Slovenia and Croatia. However, I didn't have a Slovenian and Croatian constitution in front of me, so I'm not sure if it really is, but also if it is, don't you Europeans have better examples of reputation than Slovenia, especially Croatia? Where are those countries you've been talking about since 1990? You're trying in the EU. Does it say something like that in the regulations of Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, etc.? Is there a provision like this somewhere besides saying that such a provision exists in the constitutions of Slovenia and Croatia? It's obvious there isn't. So there is no first Deputy Prime Minister, nor one who is the first Deputy Prime Minister can at the same time be the Deputy Prime Minister. I'm sorry Mr. Bosko Ristic isn't here in the O.R. He doesn't know how the post of Prime Minister became. He heard there was one first, and whether he's the first minister or the first vice president, it's not clear with that. There's the first minister in the UK and our word "prime minister", she's detached with us, it's not exactly our word, she's made from the English word "prime minister," so, the one who's the first minister. How did that first minister come into existence? In the early 18th century, a German dynasty from Hanover arrived at the head of the English state. Since the first king of the German dynasty did not know English and could not attend government meetings, he was informed of the results of a cabinet session by a minister who was later appointed by the first minister. In Great Britain, these functions of the first minister were created by chance, because King George the First of the Hanoverian Dynasty, since the German, did not speak English. There's something there called the first minister, that's what we call the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister, but there's absolutely no, at least as far as I know, and I know something about it, in developed, well-organised democratic states, what you now call the first vice president of the government or deputy prime minister. Now, what is the practical dimension of what you put in the Government Bill? You obviously wanted the Prime Minister to be absent or prevented from replacing this, this lack, by setting up one Deputy Prime Minister for the First Vice-President to replace this absent Prime Minister in all situations, except in two situations: when to resolve a member of the Government or when to propose elections. So, this first Deputy Prime Minister should replace the Prime Minister when he's not here. What you did not put in the bill, and one very practical question, is the following – and what if the first Deputy Prime Minister is not there, then how will the Government function? There is no Prime Minister or First Vice President, so who's going to determine who's going to lead the cabinet's session, and how is this government going to make decisions? Will the Prime Minister who is not here or the first Deputy Prime Minister who is also not there? So, the purely practical dimension you haven't satisfied again. But it's obvious from the following point of view that you didn't just want to predict what would happen when the Prime Minister is gone. You wanted to appoint the Prime Minister some kind of tutor to control him, what he's doing. If that were the case, you wrote it yourself. He says, "The first Deputy Prime Minister – Deputy Prime Minister assists the Prime Minister in leading and directing the government, caring for the unity of the government's political functioning and coordinating the work of government members." This means that the Deputy Prime Minister has his duties when the Prime Minister is there next to him. So he doesn't just replace him when he's away or when he's prevented, but also when he regularly performs his duties. That means the Deputy Prime Minister is some kind of controller of what the Prime Minister is doing. In purely language terms, I would like to be explained how this Deputy Prime Minister can help the Prime Minister to care for the unity of the government's political functioning, in what way. What are the mechanisms to help someone by taking care of the alleged political unity of the government instead, and this government's political unity to this extent, it is stated that you are already aware that there will be nothing of this unity, and then you put such a provision in the bill that if the number of votes is divided half-half-determining vote becomes the voice of the Prime Minister. You may or may not have been aware through this provision of the so-called "golden voice" of the Prime Minister, revived an ancient legal institute that disappeared somewhere in the 19th century. In Serbian, he would say approximately – a multiple voice or a Latin "pular votum", so when one man has two or more votes. Such a case, for example, existed in Belgium when Belgium was not a democratic state as it is today, but semi-faedual; then those who were rich, who were taught they had two, three or more votes in the elections, but that system was abolished, as far as I know, by the end of the 19th century, and you have now revived it by giving the Prime Minister two votes, or that his vote would be decisive in the event that the vote was split half-half. I ask you again, if your role models are in the West, if your role models are well-organized democratic states, so where did you find this institute that was abolished in the 19th century, how could you remember that? Practically, of all yours, allegedly democratic, ideals that you seek and democratic examples Mr. Bosko Ristic has managed to add up all two, which I doubt are even true, but here I will check in the Constitution of Slovenia and Croatia. Therefore, only Slovenia and only Croatia and no other Member States of the European Union. In this regard, Croatia is not a member of the European Union at all; it may be an example of reputation, an example of some issues, and we in the Serbian Radical Party are not absolutely any of them. Here, I'm done, I'll just ask you one more question. Do you know how decisions are made in the British government? It doesn't occur to anyone to vote over anyone, to introduce a gold voice institute, a multiple voice, etc., there all decisions are made by consensus. Consensus means that there is a general agreement on everything at the government's agenda session. You obviously can't reach that consensus. So, to you, Great Britain is not an example of reputation, you are an example of the reputation of an unregulated, chaotic state in which governments are being replaced every six months -- and then you will now try to achieve some of your own personal interest by artificially maintaining government unity through the Golden Voice Institute, or through the Deputy Prime Minister's institute. The essence of this law is that you in an artificial way keep alive something called a government, which is actually a conglomerate of completely opposed political parties that connects nothing but a mere desire to be in power. In the end, it is completely unclear for me as a lawyer that there are some particularly justified reasons that this law, as it is, takes effect not on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger", as otherwise provided for by the Constitution, but, it says, "the day of publication". The constitution is quite clear as regards the publication of laws, other regulations and general acts, in Article 196(4), says this: "Laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of publication and may enter into force early", and now be careful, "only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established when they are adopted". So, the Constitution doesn't even say justified, but "particularly justified". What is "particularly justified" that requires this law, a bad, disastrously bad, unconstitutional, to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? In legal practice, there are some standards where something is considered particularly urgent and particularly justified. Let's just say that there's a danger of endangering public order, peace, security, public order, that there's some damage that could not be compensated, that people's lives and health or property are at stake. These are for some normal legal concepts, especially justifiable reasons. What will happen in Serbia if the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? What are the reasons for the urgency? You've tried to tell us something about it, but in one way that's very rude and that's actually funny. Starting with the importance of the government as the holder of the executive authority and its role in leading the policy of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary to specify the legal provisions on the position of the Deputy Prime Minister as soon as possible. Imagine, the state can't function unless the position of Deputy Prime Minister who replaces the Prime Minister and the way the government works has an even number of members. Well, the government doesn't have to have an even number of members, there may be an odd number of members, but the actual number of members, for example, some two are sick and have an even number of members, so you absolutely didn't get into the essence of what you wanted to say. The law is unconstitutional, the law is bad, it is linguistically unedited and absolutely there is absolutely no particularly justified reason why such a bad and unconstitutional law should enter into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I believe that I can say right now that the Constitutional Court of Serbia will have the task of reviewing the constitutionality of such a bad and very dangerous law, because it introduces the principle into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and especially when it comes to the authorities, that everything that is not prohibited is allowed. What will happen to democracy in this country, with human rights and freedoms, with the legal system, it seems only God can tell us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u333	I ask MP Zoran Ostojić to take the floor, and the next speaker is Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u334	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that there is no proposing Mr. Bosko Ristic, and there is no head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, and I like to address someone specifically, so I will choose Dragan Vujadinovic, I know him well. Dragan, you've put us in a position, us from the LDP, to defend the Constitution, against whom we have been fiercely, with those with whom you wrote the Constitution, with these here from the Radical Party and the People's Coalition. It is indeed an ungrateful situation for LDP and therefore I will not continue with the arguments why this law is anti-constitutional, enough has been said. I will say a few political reasons why we are against this law, why we are against the introduction of the "co-chair" function, and we do not understand why it is not included in the law, that this first vice-president or deputy prime minister is called the co-rapporteur, the government's co-chair. In addition to being unconstitutional, giving such importance and such power to foreigners who have only twelve MPs for us is absolutely not acceptable, especially because of what we have said that party is not able, does not want or does not want to be fenced from its 1990s policy. We think that giving a 'golden voice' or two votes to the Serbian prime minister is also unconstitutional, because in this country all citizens are equal. Positive discrimination applies only to some minorities, ethnic communities, and as far as we know, the prime minister does not belong to any of them. That is why we think that the two votes given to the prime minister is a failed attempt to restore the authority and credibility of the prime minister to whom the government was drawn before he was elected, to whom even the minister without a portfolio was elected before the prime minister or prime minister was elected and that he should have thought earlier about who put the government together. We don't think that gold actions, with a double voice, will improve the authority of the prime minister, because it's simply not the way. We are sorry about that, because we want that government to work, we want it to be chosen, because the sooner it is elected, Vojislav Kostunica will not be in his office. In the end, in order not to waste my time with my MP group, there is one inaccuracy in the bill. It says that the implementation of this law does not require additional appropriations. They are needed, this government has more ministries than the government currently in power. The budget was designed at 22 ministries, this government will have 24. It's probably an oversight or a political reason, I don't know, but in any case, this government will cost more citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u335	The word has the people's undertaker, Mr. Zoran Shami. Let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u336	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I have not been in a situation where, on one law that has only five members, I have very serious objections to three of those five members. The remaining two stand more or less in all laws, although I am inclined to adopt Mr Martinovic's remarks. Let me also say that there are three kinds of objections why these three members are not working. One species has already been pointed out by almost all speakers so far. It is doubtless that the members of the law do not comply with the Serbian Constitution. In the Constitution of Serbia in its first position, Serbia said: "The government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers." However, I will read to you a second and third member, who has so far been unquoted, but it is worth reading: "The Prime Minister is leading and directing the government's work, ageing with the political functioning of the government, harmonising the work of government members and representing the government." It's not said that someone else can do it, just the Prime Minister. "Ministers are responsible for their work and for the situation in the area of the ministry's work," a third member, "responsible to the Prime Minister, the Government and the National Assembly", is not said to a third. On the other hand, it is also contrary to the Constitution, while I am already in the constitutional provisions, contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, which is also the third member who is talking about that, in the event that the MPs are equally declared, then the vote of the President of the Assembly decides. However, in the Constitution there is no provision for decision-making in the Government, because the Constitution provides for the adoption of a government law, which is why we are now discussing it, but when something is not defined directly, those who are lawyers, I am not, they know that things are being resolved on analogy. What's the closest analogy? The closest analogy is that the work of this congregation is defined, where it is decadently written, taxingly listed, which all decisions this assembly makes by an absolute majority of votes. So we elected Madam President of the Assembly with an absolute majority of votes, the secretary, too. There are other jobs to be decided by an absolute majority of votes. It is also not envisaged that in the event that we come out here with an equal number of votes, the vote of the President of the Assembly, or the President of the Assembly, is worth double. Thus, in the spirit of the Constitution, it is not what it says in Article 3. However, these mentioned members also suffer another type of objections, not less significant. I'm not prone to demeaning the Constitution, but there are some other objections that should be pointed out. First of all, the current Government Act is very reasonable to write, and this proposal rules out the text of the law, says the Prime Minister determines the Deputy Prime Minister, who replaces him during the absence or prevention of all powers of the Prime Minister, except by the authority to propose elections or discharge of a member of the Government. In other words, a natural right is given to the Prime Minister to determine in a given situation which the vice president, if there are more, and as far as I understand them there will be more of them, to charge him with certain tasks. In doing so, he will keep in mind what kind of work to be done. If it's about the country's security, it'll be the vice president who's working on it. If it's about European integration or something, then some other vice president. So, one extremely normal formulation, which I don't see why it bothers the future government, unless it's an idea to limit the fact of the Prime Minister. Now we come to that witty remark of a journalist, the other day I read it in "Politics," which he found out for a reason that we did well through the papers to find out all the members of the government, and the last thing we learned was the Prime Minister, who, he says, then comes as a cherry on top of the cake. And now, if we want "higher on top of the cake", then we're going to bring these changes to the Government Act, and if we want the Prime Minister, that's probably our best interest to all of us, and to the authorities and the opposition, which will work in the best interests of this country, then we won't do it. Finally, I have to say that what you're proposing here when it comes to the introduction of that first deputy, or call him whatever you want... And by the way, since we've already introduced it, then it becomes quite possible that one day we'll choose the first, second, third, seventeenth minister by one rank, to choose the co-ordinators of the ministers or introduce some functions that no one else lives has, but if they can do this, then they can do anything else. However, there is something else that suggests, and I am sorry, regardless of what I belong to the opposition party, to a certain mistrust between future coalition partners and I am most sincerely concerned. I guess if most of them came together, on the basis of which I don't know what kind of oscillations, then I guess there's some elemental trust that both the Prime Minister and the ministers on their part, regardless of which political parties they came from, will protect the interests of this country and trust each other. If there is so much trust, then I fear it is not good for the future government, and of course it is not good for the country of Serbia either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u337	The word is Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, and please prepare Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u338	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have talked a lot about the proposed law on amendments to the Government Act being unconstitutional, but colleagues from the Legislative and Constitutional Affairs Committee will agree that no one has mentioned one member of the Constitution on which I will base my foundation and argument as to why this law is unconstitutional. I'll tell you about article 52. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the electoral right of Serbian citizens. Why am I leaving election law? Because winning the right to vote is therefore the right to be elected, to choose and to be elected to some function of the basic course of democracy, and I guess that's the foundation of political action in modern political systems. Because if citizens are in one country, and we have clearly defined in Article 52. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that every aged Serbian citizen, workingly able, can choose and be elected, today comes to the point of watching the transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia realize that his right to vote is less or less valuable than the vote of Mirko Cvetkovic, his deputy, the one elected, vice-president, first vice-president, possibly Mr. Ivica Dacic of the SPS, then the question of why the political parties, citizens and all people who protected their right to parliamentary elections, in local elections, were doing so in elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia. The equality of citizens' rights in our country not only has been prescribed and regulated by this member of the Constitution, but a step further has gone, and the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which is older than the Law on the Selection of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, clearly says that the National Assembly, because citizens are directly involved in the constitution of state authorities through their electoral rights, thus being the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the role of certain supervisors. For years back, since 1991 as the first MP at the beginning of the multi-party, said our party's president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, as a doctor of legal science. We are now in a situation where the humiliated, humiliated National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the government can do with it whatever it wants. They know fellow MPs and Serbian radicals, as well as other colleagues who were then opposition, and now they will be the government, that we are the haughtiness and passion of ministers who do not realize that they come into the most legislative body we felt as MPs on their skin; that they have addressed us with mistreatment, that they have not appreciated the work of the MPs, that they have proposed laws to us in this way, that they have treated our amendments. Then you can imagine how we felt as people to whom the people transferred part of their sovereignty, elected us on the lists of our political parties, us individually the most, in terms of the strongest political party, on the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj. Imagine how one citizen in Kragujevac, Novi Varoša, in Sutotica, in Vranj, is feeling when he wonders who will protect his rights when the exclusive role and the "golden voice" will now be the prime minister in the new government of the Republic of Serbia. That people were thinking and that someone had asked that question before, when the Constitution was voted, it was the widest possible consensus and those who didn't vote for the Constitution today are coming out and the advocates are the ones who are the ones that broke the Constitution. So, as serious people, we talked about it, and above all, Mr Tomislav Nikolic insisted that constitutional laws be passed, namely to vote with the necessary laws that would regulate the area of local self-government, to establish the Constitutional Court, and no one at that time really thought about it because it was given in order to the new government of the Republic of Serbia, that even the need to think about it should be considered, and that this requires the broadest consensus to pass the Law on Government. It was left as a provision of the Constitution and was beautifully written in Article 135 that a law was passed on to the Government. According to our bitter experience with us Serbs, at the time of socialist self-management and dictatorship of those led by Josip Broz, so we have this experience, unfortunately, since the adoption of the first constitutions in modern Serbia, that always the authorities wanted to adapt it to themselves and to shape the fate of the people as they think they need or very often, and unfortunately, there is history repeating themselves in the dictatorship of the outside, changing the laws as it suits them and breaking the constitutions. That's why we have a whole collection of books about it, and most of all, our biggest lawyer, Laza M. Kostic, gave it to us. And we, as a party, tried (in addition to the publication of that first book of his, mentioned by Mr Martinovic, "Administrative Law", and in the context of his comparison and violation of the Constitution since the adoption of the first Constitution in Serbia), to see how far the authorities were prepared to go. Believe me, not even in the darkest time of the so-called. The socialist self-government, which was assumed to have been a voluntary gathering of peoples and peoples, and as the highest body in the country, we had a Federal executive SFRJ, and Joseph Broz had no idea that the exclusive right to, say, Milki Planinc or Branko Mikulic had been decided at the SFRJ presidency session. There may be people around here who are earlier so they know how decisions were made, but certainly no one, or even in one such quasi-community of brotherhood and unity, has taken on a role, even though it had the direct political power of a man, this Joseph Broz, to say, decides on one or the other side. They even went so far as to create an illusion that there was some democracy. And we today, when in the right sense we have the Constitution, which we have openly, with all our heart, advocated to be brought in and not to leave any doubt in the functioning and division of the authorities, come into a situation that roughly, just because you have the majority and because it is necessary, and everything under the password of preserving the necessary political unity, introduce something that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. I tried to find these parallel solutions on the site earlier, but the right to tell you what I don't care if I continue to list and look at those conclusions, as the Slovenians say in their constitution, whether they have concluded it in one way or another. We Serbs with a serious constitutional and legal tradition and with a serious democratic tradition should probably take care not to hurt anyone, and we keep telling you from 5 October to today not to make laws according to one man or one political party. Now we're really coming into a paradoxal situation. Since this is obviously the will of Boris Tadic that we have this kind of Prime Minister in this steam system of decision-making (again to return to that period of Milka Planinc, when you've had even and odd weekends, you remember, all for the sake of austerity, for the sake of taking care of the state and the people and that the state might work), that is, here we now have the possibility that one man is doing it exclusively at the will of Boris Tadic. But it's going to be a man who obviously has a very weak political role and determination, as some of his youth friends said -- the oldmal, who always walked the line of less resistance, was here somewhere professional, and that's the question. That's what Mrs Tabakovic talked about several times. Then the question arises how to expect, since you have given a golden right to vote to such a structure of a man such as Mirko Cvetkovic – that he will make the right decision even though he has won the role against the constitution, when you yourself know that he never wanted to answer a series of remarks or has rarely done it, at the end of the debate, to make concrete remarks to the bill that he has brought to us here as finance minister. Now the question is whether this role is so intended for the DS coalition partner is done precisely because it is incompetent to work. Or that Boris Tadic is constantly in need of control that Mirko Cvetkovic and his Democratic Party, who are obviously in some kind of dissipation these days, because the uncompromised appetites of individual young leaders in the DS are on the election of Boris Tadic, which for the post of prime minister, which is why for the moves he has drawn as the only and unsettled leader of the non-state, but appears apparently in the role of prime minister, and then I would not ask myself why you are in such a hurry and why, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is not respected to announce this on the eighth day of its entry into force. And the explanation isn't true. It could be, that the intentions were good and that this wasn't against the constitution. In this explanation of urgency, it is said that all this is done because of the importance and departure from the role played by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we are now seeing the end of it, and that you will soon, in great squabbles, come down to everything not only remains in Serbia from our public enterprises, from our natural resources, but also because you will not take care of everything you promised before the elections. But it says here: "and her role in leading the politics of the Republic of Serbia". Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you in the DS know it best, think that the politics of the Republic of Serbia will lead anyone other than Boris Tadic? Don't you now understand why we've been saying that in a political sense, he's really a real dictator? Here, if we go back in time to Joseph Broz, so why don't we even out the role of Boris Tadic today as well as the role of Joseph Broz at the time. With Broz, you see, it didn't occur to President SIV SFRY that he had such an exclusive that he had the right to "golden voice" and Boris Tadic did. Many colleagues here mentioned the role of the Constitutional Court. I will therefore complete my presentation and point out, and because of you, Madam President, and because of you MPs, that the Constitutional Court should not only react when one of those who are authorised under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia initiates the assessment of constitutionality and legality. That's what we've been talking about since October 5th, there's this famous law, with a retroactive fact, on extraprofits, and the removal of MPs, and the reintroduction of those same ones, at one point the existence of 58 MPs more than there are congregations, etc. It is also, therefore, against the constitutional kidnapping and extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal and that I do not list all these provisions of the Constitution that have been violated, as well as the laws that have been passed in the opposite, with a flagrant violation of the Constitution. I suppose you've been going from when you suggested those five that Boris Tadic chose from the National Assembly list, i.e. selecting those five judges from the list he proposed, that the Constitutional Court would then do so? You don't think the judges are sleeping right now and not following the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? I suppose the Constitutional Court itself can raise questions about the assessment of constitutionality and legality? If he could have done it like he did back then, what was a colleague of Radeta talking about, why wouldn't they do it tomorrow? If they do not do so tomorrow, be sure, we will insist that one day a decision will be annulled, first of all, because of the legitimacy of the MPs sitting here, and because of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with such legislation and with such powers as the Prime Minister and his first elected vice president, or vice president, will not be able to survive or if it remains very short, because we will try, you have seen it today, only on the basis of a few members of this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, you will see tomorrow at the Ministry Act – that we are persistent in this. And that is, unlike you, the purpose of our political action, and that is why the people trust us most. That is why support and greetings are coming today from the citizens of Serbia, because unlike all of you who swore to it, we are the only ones in Serbia today who are able to protect constitutionality and legality, and we will fight for it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u339	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Ivan Andric, and let Mrs. Zlata Djeric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u340	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, have said a lot about the legal dimension of this law. After this much debate, since 12:00 today, there is no doubt that this law does not comply with the Constitution. It tries to supplement the Constitution, at least if it is not in direct contrast, it complements, it assigns one of the vice presidents the authority given only to the prime minister and we cannot overcome it. It's the only thing that's enough to be against this law, that's to vote against by the LDP. But I will try to make another political argument that is much more dangerous and much worse than this legal one, at least as far as we from the LDP. In fact, as many MPs try to portray it as irrelevant, the first Deputy Prime Minister introduces the government's co-chairship and gives authority to one of the vice presidents in fact pushes through a small door the position the DS has tried, dropping test balloons in public, to push through, but because of the public's reaction has retreated. Namely, this is a concrete law on a concrete government, on a particular personality at this political moment. With this law, the motionary tries to give Hansel Dacic the post of prime minister. It can't be done openly, but it can be done by bypassing all political authority of the current prime minister, by agreeing both the government's composition and the number of ministries, putting people on the ministry, and only then saying who is the prime minister. So, on the very assembly of the government Mr. Cvetkovic has no influence, he comes at the very end. On the other hand, here, one of the vice presidents, and Ivica Dacic, the SPS president, are given the same powers as Mr Cvetkovic. For us from the LDP, it is unacceptable and it is enough proof for us that this government will not be democratic, will not be pro-European and it is a government that we cannot give trust to, even first or banally. Unfortunately, it is again a political game and it is still a matter that the Democratic Party is not ready to take responsibility, but rather prepares an excuse for what the government will not do, as it has been several times before, by agreeing to the government in which Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister, by scaring us throughout the SRS campaign. Today, by voting for this law, the DS is making a concession for things they are not supposed to be able to do because the government's co-chair is against it. We warn you in advance that such a political game will not pass this time, but this is all enough reason for us to vote against this law and against this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u341	The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric, and the next is Dr. Paja Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u342	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Government is a legal act governing relations within the government, laying down rules and governing the work of the Government. As such, he should be not only constitutional, it is his obligation, but also an example of all the other principles on which he will rest the work of other institutions in this country. If the Government Act makes two dangerous precedents, unconstitutional and illogical, then all other institutions can continue their work on principle: as the Government can, so can we. Of course, we all know where this road leads and that kind of approach to work. So the Government Act must not be a paradigm of any illegality. The government law must be first to all laws and rules in this society. What makes us unable to support this government law, which has a modest number of members, and two members are indeed unacceptable, is this qualification of new functions in the Government – Deputy Prime Minister, or First Deputy Prime Minister. Two names, two syntaxes for the same function. If two syntaxes were given in the name, they could be given 22. Then the name of the function would be longer than the biography of the holder of that function. Tautology as a style figure is already being avoided and in poetry, in law it shouldn't exist at all. The law must be clear, precise and unequivocal. With this name, this qualification, we make the law vague, inaccurate and certainly ambiguous. Regardless of the possible important role of the Constitutional Court, I hope that the Constitutional Court must react to this "golden voice", because it is unacceptable for anyone in a democratic society to have two votes. Why wouldn't every citizen have a chance to find a way to get two votes? Before the election, we all have to do it right. This multiplication is very profitable and very desirable. What interests us, apart from Orwell, where there is this possibility that all are equal to just some "equal", and this vote introduces a single Orvelova atmosphere which we cannot allow in Serbia, I am only interested in one question and I will end up with it – is this Deputy Prime Minister, in the event of the Prime Minister's absence in the sittings, going to have this "golden voice"?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u343	The word is Dr. Pai Momchilov, and the next is counterpart Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, is now 19.00 hours and we have been discussing for more than 12 hours the first draft law that is before us. Dear MPs and MPs, put yourself in the skin of my party colleague Milan Veselinovic, who left Novi Pazar at four o'clock this morning to attend this session. It is the 15th hour that he sits here and that he should be qualified to participate in the debate on the adoption of important laws that determine the fate of our country and should be a quality match for his mission. The president of the assembly isn't here right now, she's a doctor, and she can best understand why I'm starting my presentation like this. The bill itself is very short and it is not difficult to explain and dispute it, and my colleagues from the SRS were clear and provided, along with other colleagues from the opposition, too many arguments that could hardly be defended by the position. If it were fortunate that there was respect and reason between us, logic, respect for the Constitution and legality, the promoter would have already withdrawn this law long ago and we would not have this absurd debate that is still being held. I'd just like to warn you of one fact that seems to be a rule in this new congregation. You see how the previous session was called, when we had a continuation of the constitutional session. We were called text messages from the secretary's secretary, without the agenda and the topic under discussion, and we received the material just before the beginning of the session. What do we have today? We have a third extraordinary session and we could say exactly – the continuation of it. The same thing? You see, we have unnecessarily called this call by emergency procedure. Watch it when it is called – Friday night, when there is no possibility of getting to the material. What should we tell colleagues from the interior who were already in their homes, who absolutely had no insight into this material? The session is called for Monday, which is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure for the normal work and debate of the MPs. People's MPs are not slaves and prisoners of Boris Tadic and a group that calls itself "For Europe's Serbia", they have other obligations to their voters in place, and they schedule their own activities. However, here we are calling for a day that is not laid down by the Rules of Procedure. Look at the time - at 12:00. According to the Rules of Procedure, we should be working at 10.00 hours. For what? Exhaustion method. We now need to debate indefinitely, while this debate is going on; my colleague Veselinovic from the Parliament club will suffer this torture here. Why is all this done? Of course, there is a very prosaic reason – someone wants to discuss these important problems unqualityly. Why? Someone wants to bring something of dubious value in a hurry, most likely. If the thing was clean, if the legal proposals were right, no one would have managed this session this way. Now, he's wondering why this hysterical speed. This is already hysterical speed. At first, we thought it was a coincidence, that people thought it was necessary, maybe even enthusiasm for a newly established coalition, but this is now a hysterical rate. I've already quoted a saying from this place: "The greater the void, the higher the speed." I thought I was right, but I don't think I'm quite right when I quote this max. There is a Serbian proverb that may be better: "The iron is boiling while it's hot" – let us conclude this as soon as possible, until we have a fight over the prey, because already through the press, we see it, and how we argue and condition it to form our new government. Now, Louis XIV of our political Serbian scene, which he has already said is a state, so he said -- the party, that's me, however, has been given the authority to decide freely who will be the prime minister. We've seen that solution, and it seems to dictate this hoax and this hysteria at the appointment of our sessions. Let's skip that, too. It may not be a big problem, but when we get to the bill itself, out of practically only two important members, then we see that the situation is, unfortunately, far more serious. You see, in the press, they say, Serbian radicals are obstructing Parliament's work. No! No! Gentlemen in the media, we don't obstruct, we just advocate respect for the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. Why? Because respect for the procedure is civilized, so it can be freely said, and European fluids. You, gentlemen of the Europeans, do not respect the procedure, the positive procedure, you do not respect the Constitution, you do not respect the Rules of Procedure, and then by replacing the thesis you honor us with that we have dirty thoughts and that we want to obstruct the work of this Parliament at the expense of our people. It's going to be a reverse situation. The MPs of the SRS can't recite the apotheosis of this powerlessness that you're proposing and the bill of this law, someone else would say we can't sing a celebration of madness here. That's an exaggeration. Don't hold my word, I don't think so. When I hear an explanation from Mr. Ristic, who was really given dilettantly and in one provincial way that the low market would not accept. The drink political Serbian and Serbian parliament must suffer because you have 126 votes to establish tyranny in this parliament, then that's fine. It's not right, it's sad to defend this the way it is. It is also a matter of logic, to move on to the very measure of this proposal and these two members of the viewers who followed the careful transmission are already quite clear. The famous member of the 2nd proposal, everyone has already said he is unconstitutional. Maybe it would be best to read him parallelly and read the Constitution, so then a man can see who's right and who's wrong. Our viewers don't have a Constitution, I read to you here, and it's best to read it and extension. It shows - First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. Really, define yourself what it's going to be. There can't be both fish and girls, you'd go both ways and three, maybe, someone went here and the third one went on. It's unnecessary. You're introducing an unconstitutional category, people have read to you, and now I'm reading Article 125 again: "The government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers." There is no such thing as what you are introducing, and in particular there is no functional sense, because it violates what the Constitution requires further. He says the Prime Minister is leading and directing the government's work, taking care of the government's uniform political functioning, harmonising the work of government members and representing the government. Equivalence?- I'm sorry. One is first and therefore leads him to be responsible and even, not to have a conflicting opinion. You're instituting bicephaly. For what? It's a big question. Someone gave the answer, maybe if you start with primitive motives, you'll be closest to the truth. We read in the press that some Mr. Manter, some American, is also a game of the country's ambassador to this country, with a certain tycoon gentleman, said here, will be the prime minister of one smaller party. After that we see that it can't be, and then what? Let's still make up for it. So what you're suggesting, this is a bad, false compensation. This goes against what's written in our Constitution. When you look at the next point, again, "golden voice," it turns out now, well, we gave a little compensation to someone we didn't give what we had previously promised or what we had made public, let's now make up for who we had damaged, so he's going to have a "golden voice," so he's going to be able to judge. You could watch it that way. Just to read what you've explained, on this little page, you've written, which is why you're passing this law by an urgent procedure, and this offends the elemental logic, someone's been talking about spelling, and I don't see that there are major spelling mistakes. These are both sophisms and neologisms, these are mists, this is no explanation, this is a shame. I will read all this, so that our citizens understand why you hurried so quickly to pass this law: "The passing of this law by an urgent procedure is of particular importance for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions, which is not feasible in a situation where the existing Law in the Government is still in force in an unchanged version." What a lie, a replacement of thesis and a lie. How is it not going to work if we don't have a law like this? How did he function so far, so he didn't bother you? This is just a big lie. Don't write this. Of course, second sentence, be careful now: "Therefore it is necessary to pass this law by emergency procedure and thereby prevent possible and harmful consequences for the work of the state authorities." Bruca and shame! A lie, a lie, a neology, a sophism, and the lowest political rank! Gentlemen of the Europeans, you who say in Europe, why didn't you quote a European country, a serious, developed country where there are such laws? This isn't even on the Sabbath fair, it's not on the fair at the market, so it shouldn't be in the Serbian Parliament either. The SRS MPs won't vote for this. Why? Because it is not in Serbia's interest, it is not in the interest of the Serbian people and citizens. Whose interest is he in? In your personal interest, your settlements and guesses. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u345	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic, let Mrs Vesna Pesic be prepared. That's how it was left for me here. Mrs. Pesic, please, my colleague is a gentleman, so it's not a problem. The remaining LDP time is three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u346	What concerns me most, at this time, is that the vast majority of citizens want to get a pro-European government, however, when it looks at the price to pay for the formation of this government, and we see it today when amending the Government Act, a big question arises – will this government be pro-European at all? Based on this, I can predict it won't be. If a democratic government is spoken of, it must first and foremost be a responsible government. The interventions made by this law lead to the fact that this government, by definition, cannot be held accountable but must be irresponsible. Here's why. You've introduced a Co-President or a Co-Commander, it's already been said a hundred times that the Constitution has been broken. Clearly, there is no such function in the Constitution, because it is not the precision of the vice president, who replaces, but the introduction, obviously, of new functions; in fact, someone should help someone who is himself, meaning, in his very function. So when you look at it, you can say, sorry, who's responsible, is the Prime Minister responsible in this government and what is his responsibility, or is the responsibility of his deputy who helps him in what his function is? Who's gonna be prime minister anyway? It's a violation of the government's decision to know who the prime minister is. The other thing, it's a violation of elemental democracy. We said he wasn't one man anymore -- one voice, but one man was worth two votes. These are the basic principles of democratic decision-making. Why should the government make decisions by consensus? Why is this government planning to vote any decision? Then she couldn't think of one ministry more or one ministry to take away, to be an odd number, but to invent such impossible things, that one vote was worth two, although technically she could solve it much simpler. But if it is predicted that there will be an exclusive revote or in most cases a decision-making vote, the consensus is required because the government is responding to the people and to this assembly. I don't care, this isn't me, this is Dacic. You can't do that, you have to know. It is quite clear, I am now moving to the essence of the matter, why this situation has taken place that we are making a law here that allows an irresponsible government, which cannot bear responsibility for anyone, in front of Parliament, or in front of the people. The answer is this: Mr. Socialists are insecure. They first negotiated with one side, highly negotiating correctly, there they sought the deputy prime minister, that is, what we are talking about today, and then they went to the other side and asked for the prime minister. And now that they've said, well, come on, make it two prime ministers, but that second one... That's what happened, that's the scenario that happened, that's what they asked you to do, and Boris Tadic was asked for the prime minister. In addition, Mr Dacic is not enough to be deputy prime minister, but also wants to be police minister at the same time. Please, citizens, can you believe that Ivica Dacic will be both Minister of Police and Deputy Prime Minister, or so-called Prime Minister! Because you won't know who the Prime Minister is. This inconsistencies of the Socialist Party of Serbia, if it were looking for a prime minister's seat, the entire coalition shows this inconsistency... And why did the Democratic Party accept it, is it an extraordinary technique of knowing the power of the SPS, so you don't know what you're going to do? But what citizens need to know is that, through this irrepressibility of the SPS, where we don't know when future Prime Minister Ivica Dacic will arrive to play the role of the police minister... It's a huge task, it's a big task. He took two huge functions for himself, and I think that Serbia, this democratic Serbia that is now looking at us, is truly miraculously surprised and baptized, what happened to have Ivica Dacic as both prime minister and police minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u347	The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Mr. Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u348	Dear fellow Members of the People, all day long the MPs who came out for this pay phone were giving views as to how unconstitutional this law is and I don't think there's anything more to be added. Even Mr. Bosko Ristic couldn't defend this thesis that this bill on amendments and additions to the Government Act is not contrary to the Constitution. Since I don't have much time, I'd like to point to a political aspect of this law. I do not believe that in the history of the law, or the proposal for a government law, one congregation majority dared to make one such proposal, which publicly and transparently suggests that there is no mutual trust in this government, that there is no political agreement in that government, and therefore there will be no national unity, that there is no big mistrust in the government that needs to be formed. It was that the thesis that I made when we elected the president of the assembly, that it was absolutely certain that an agreement was reached on the new government, but that there was no political agreement there and that this government would be wandering politically. What has been declared political objectives, on the one hand, of the DS, on the other hand of the SPS, simply cannot be realised, because, as this proposal shows, there is no action unity. What is also very ugly is that you, by this law, derogate the office of Prime Minister, make it clear that the Prime Minister should be someone's puppet. It is not a person who has the authority to, as provided for by this law, care for the unity of political action, but, clearly, the puppets of a particular political group or man. That's what surprises me when it comes to DS, that the DS doesn't have that internal force, and I'm sure it's not in agreement with the basic political beliefs of DS members, to allow, no matter who, this is about the President of the Republic, such authority to one person. I have to admit, given that in the news, we could hear in the media that there was resistance. So, honor the exceptions to the DS. So it's never good when you give one man so much power and allow him to unite and function as President of the Republic, on the one hand, and on the other hand, as Prime Minister, regardless of political beliefs, it's not good. This bill of law is so illogical, about the Deputy Prime Minister, that there are some questions that I don't think there is an answer to. Say, what if the government votes in secret? How do we know how the Prime Minister voted, and, let's say, we have one abstention. Could the Prime Minister have been held back? What happens if there is no Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, if they are absent, does the Deputy Prime Minister have that "golden voice"? What if the Prime Minister votes with abstention at the government? What's going on at that point? Let's get this thing to absurd. By using this logic, since certain ministries have several state secretaries, we can create conditions here, at a small door, that there is also a deputy minister, State Secretary, and we will probably have a "golden voice" of the minister in the ministry, because there will probably be identical divisions in the ministries. All in all, the law is unconstitutional, and surely the Constitutional Court will give its final word, but generally, a great disappointment, those who appeal to democratic principles, again I honor individuals, within the DS. You've allowed and given all power to one man. God help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u349	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marko Milenkovic, please. Let Mr. Jovan Palalic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act certainly does not lead the future position of the state and its institutions on healthy legs, which should be the priority of each government, both those of 1941 and those which are these days in formation. And the brief exposure of colleagues from Bosko Ristić was not directed to convince us of the validity of your bill's proposal, but rather to fulfill the form, to fly through matter in flight, to hide what was not seen at first sight. But that's quite understandable, because it's hard to explain what you don't believe yourself. In Article 2 of your Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Government Act, introduce an extra-constitutional category of functions of the first Deputy Prime Minister i.e. Deputy Prime Minister, therefore, directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And therefore your Legislative Committee, which is the servant of your political parties, does not vote on whether the bill is legally possible, whether it is in accordance with the Constitution, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as a committee that is not parent, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law in principle, equating itself with both the Committee of Justice and Administration. That's amazing. The anti-constitutional institution of the first Deputy Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister faithfully paints the political moment and situation in your coalition majority, as well as the desire to raise one Deputy Prime Minister over the rest of them to an extra-constitutional post. But if that deputy Prime Minister is so important, why remove his authority to propose an election or discharge of government members. The reasons for adopting this law did not come from the need of our society, but from meeting your party needs, and all of this is paid by Serbia and our citizens. At one point you say it is necessary to specify the position of Deputy Prime Minister. Of course, the law needs to make everything clear, although it has not been a practice for you so far, but that is not the reason for the law to be passed! So the question is, what is the real reason and what are the principles in your negotiations that have led to such a disastrous bill? In an explanation of individual solutions, you are talking about the unity of government leadership and direction, the unity of the government's political functioning and the coordination of the work of government members, which should be co-ordinated by the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. You know who's running and directing? The government's vice-president, with all the presidents, can take as long as he wants, but unity in political action and the concerted work of government members, within your unnatural or anti-natural coalition, is absolutely impossible. Or, if it's a piece of cake, then you have unity and harmony – grab as much as you can to be satisfied. These are the basic organisational principles of the Democratic Party. Your proposal to make a decision by the government if it is voted by at least half of the government's members, provided that the Prime Minister voted in favour of the decision, shows the inconclusiveness and severity of future decisions to be made in the revote with so-called. "Golden voice" by the Prime Minister. We wonder if it's democratic that any voice in the world stands for more than one vote. Would you be satisfied with the situation where the government makes any decision with the gel where the Prime Minister weighs and you say the government works perfectly, the state too, without asking yourself what's wrong with the government and its unity? Can he keep going like that? Or are you already planning some future pre-arranged voting within the government to wash yourself with your voters? Nothing of you would surprise me, but believe me, after this time of yours, at the very least, unhappy, unhappiness, voters, citizens of Serbia you've manipulated as DOS in this or that form since 2000, you can never cheat again. You "double voice" the Prime Minister justifies by removing a possible blockade of the government's work that has an even number of members. So you haven't even started working, and you're already thinking about a future blockade! So who among you is dishonest? Who is expected of such a blockade? There, look at each other and say it. In your reasons for passing this law by an urgent procedure, you have stated that this is of particular importance for the functioning of the Republic of Serbia and its institutions. Believe me, for a country of particular importance it is precisely that such a harmful law is never passed, and so is the future of our citizens. If we look for the help of logic we will come to one of the principles – that what is in the beginning in a biological-psychological sense cannot be a sick basis on which a healthy state formation will grow and that is a serious sign that we should be concerned. Finally, if this bill were to be passed, the Serbian Constitution would be drastically trampled because it is in Article 125. The constitution clearly knows who makes the government, and Serbian Radical Party MPs will not vote in favour of a proposed law that is not in line with constitutional, legal norms of a democratic, civilized society that you only allegedly advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u351	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u352	Respected Presidency, respected fellow MPs, the government law is one of the most important laws to be passed in one country, and it is common to be adopted when the state deals strategically with changes in the functioning of the government. Of course, he should have certain solutions that would imply the practice of these changes. Is it about strengthening the prime minister's position, whether it is a different way of functioning the government itself as an executive operating body of government, the government law is always the subject of serious public debates. Because the way the government works depends to the greatest extent on the life of our citizens. The government, the ministries solve current problems, everyday problems, and it's no small thing to change the Government Act. I can say that, and the citizens of Serbia know, one system that worked until 2005, so the way the government functioned was not good. It simply did not feel through legal solutions that there was a leadership in the government, that it was defined in the government how decisions were made and the Government Act, which was just taken in 2005, had the intention of strengthening the position of prime minister, to strengthen the position of the centre of decision in order to form a strategic decision-making centre in the government itself. This was clearly and clearly seen in the Government Act, which was indeed the subject of a serious debate here, and the opposition at the time very strongly criticised these amendments to the Government Act. The Democratic Party, then the opposition, during numerous amendments attacked the then Government Act and all MPs in the assembly remember how long the debate lasted. There were even some night sessions. We are now faced with the fact that the Government Act is changing without having a vision of government functioning in the long term. The law is a general act, and it should thus define things that, in the future, some future governments, after a serious reflection of the current government law's decision, operate in this way. However, we are witnessing that the Government Act is changing for the needs of a government. If this government law is passed, maybe tomorrow, when a new government is formed, we'll be in a position to get these new government things back on a normal track so governments can function. Many times today it has been pointed out that the provision amending the Government Act, Article 13, is totally unconstitutional in the way in which amendments and additions to the Law are foreseen. It is simply not necessary to be a vis-à-vis and experienced lawyer enough to see that the solution given here in the Government Act absolutely makes the same possible for the Prime Minister when it comes to the transfer of power without the need to intervene in the very text of the Law. So, if it is a political need to satisfy a coalition partner, it is really problematic and sad that the text of the law is changed for the purpose of meeting a particular interest in a particular coalition, when a very simple solution could be found from the very text of this law. So, the Prime Minister may, as defined in Article 13(3), appoint a Deputy Prime Minister who replaces him during his absence and prevention, with all the powers of the Prime Minister. Why was it necessary to especially highlight and add a new title – Deputy Prime Minister? Obviously, coalition partners know this best, and I believe that now that the government's outlines are surmised, the whole of Serbia knows. What will certainly be the subject of debate when the prime minister brings out his exposés here is what kind of government we get, what kind of government by structure, what government by potential, and how that government itself will function when it comes to decision-making. We are convinced that the government in the way it was proposed, the way the mandate was proposed, in the way the political system in Serbia works, will absolutely remind us of what was in the 1990s when we had a strong president, then Slobodan Milosevic, who had very weak prime ministers, and the decision centre was not in the government, but at Andric's wedding, in the Serbian presidency. Strategic, key political decisions, when it comes to the functioning of the government, will be made in the Serbian presidency, with the president of Serbia, together with coalition partners, and the government will be only one technical body to implement it. If we have had one positive thing since 2000, to strengthen the positions of both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and their public reputation that they have received on this basis, we will now have one serious devaluation and reputation and influence of the Government. The government will again become what it was in the 1990s, a place where nothing is decided, a place of technical character alone, where decisions taken in other centres of power are implemented. Absolutely necessary and necessary is the condition for Serbia to get a strong prime minister, the prime minister on whom strategic political decisions will be made, which will establish a policy, which will balance the president of the Republic and the growing demands for the concentration of power in his hands. In this political sense, Serbia returned to the 1990s, and this is indeed an example of how a historic spinster could make some bad solutions, which we thought we had overcome after 2000, to return. We'll talk more about it when there's a new government and exposé debate here. I fear that the solutions that are now envisaged are reintroduced by a volunteerism and the situation that laws are being transformed into individual acts and serve only for the specific interests of individual political groups currently in a position to form a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u353	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to amend and supplement the Government Act, one of the previous issues must be resolved. The proposer must, above all, launch an initiative to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When I say that, I mean the provisions of Article 125. This member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been cited several times today. Prime Minister and members of the Government – who are they? Clearly, loudly, indeterminately, and no one in this country can step on this provision. No one's right to do that. Only Parliament has the right to amend and supplement the existing and valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Member of the 125th says, I address the professional public, the lawyers, the professors of legal, constitutional law, the judges of the Constitutional Court and other experts dealing with legal science and those who work and apply laws and other regulations – the government is made up of the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents and ministers. So, the deputy's gone. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, you cannot violate and compromise the provisions of Article 125. The Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's see how it regulates parallel law. The constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany, in Article 62, which forms the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, says - the federal government consists of the federal Chancellor and federal ministers. Is there a deputy? There isn't. This is the law, the highest legal act of the Federal Republic of Germany. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, proposed to amend Article 3, reads: "In the event that the Government has an even number of members, the government's decision has been made and if it is voted by at least half of all members of the government, on condition that the Prime Minister voted in favour of the decision." I ask the Proposer and ask for an answer – why does it have to be a even number? Here, let that lucky number 13 be, let it be odd, so vote as you do. There's an even number in the Federal Republic of Germany. The Federal Republic of Germany has 14 ministries. Why do we need 24, 25 or 30 or 35 now?- I'm sorry. Now the question is, are these party interests and interests of stakeholders? That's another thing. If that's the case, then it's on the agenda and that topic. Why is the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly authorised to establish the consolidated text of the Government Act? I don't think this should have been entered into the text of the law, this is unusual. The Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice can consider and give their opinion in relation to the law, but they cannot by law be determined that they, before us, tell the MPs what should be done and who is solely authorized to clarify the text yes. This shouldn't have been done like this. When it comes to government, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to just remind us of some provisions on government, the Constitution, and let's see how that happens in parallel law, applies norms, and how we do. The government is the highest state body, entrusted with a political and operational executive function, composed of the president and ministers. That's in parallel right to you. In the parliamentary system, the power-sharing executive function is entrusted simultaneously to the head of state and government. The head of state is the title holder of the executive function, while the actual, political and operational executive function belongs to the Government as an executive body. The government as an executive authority has independent powers. Only in the parliamentary system is the government made up of politicians who belong to parties that have a majority in parliament. It's undeniable. In general, the government is entrusted with an executive and administrative function, but it must enjoy the confidence of the parliament, which adopts the laws, approves the budget and the general policy of the government. At the same time, the government is an independent collective body and a set of ministers who, apart from collective responsibility as members of the government and are individually responsible as ministers for managing certain branches of the administration. The issue of parliament and government relations can be resolved differently. As a rule, the government cannot exist unless it enjoys the constant support of parliament. Parliament has the right at any time to put the government to the test. This is achieved by the voting mechanism for the government's trust. In practice, there has been a difference over time between two basic variants of the parliamentary system, British and French. The British variant is characterized by a two-party and a French multi-party system. In Britain, the party that wins the elections forms a single-party homogeneous government, which is as stable as that. The multi-party system in France resulted in an unstable government that was mostly coalition, heterogeneous, because no party had a majority in parliament compared to the history of the French parliament. The government's instability is trying to eliminate the rationalization of parliamentaryism, by introducing a mixed parliamentary presidential system. The essence of the rational system is to strengthen the position of the government in relation to parliament and to make it more procedural for policy-making. Now what's important, to remind ourselves of which system we are currently in, what is the legal system with us, is it a parliamentary system or a presidential system? At the same time, the head of state is in the presidential system, but also the president of the administration and government. That's the case in Serbia. The head of state is Tadic, and he also manages and commands the government of the Republic of Serbia, but Parliament is far away and Parliament is not allowed to exercise control of the government. He is the bearer of all government functions and is himself establishing a government of law, not responding to Parliament, but directly and only to the president. Theoretically, it is not a government that is educated in the parliamentary system. In the assembly system, the government is a formal body of parliament, which exercises executive power on behalf of parliament as its executive body. That would be by the constitution and by the law. What is it that characterizes the rule of law? There are different theories and different interpretations. According to the first, liberal democratic understanding, the rule of law is a measure of the regularity and validity of any positive legal order. The rule of law is synonym for the democratic community, it is the order of freedom that provides individual freedom. The validity of the law determines the system of values that is above the positive right, so this understanding is also defined as a natural right, understanding of the rule of law i.e. as learning about the right to be and the properties of the constitution and the law should have. It cannot be identified with the legality of acts of the state government, but marks the rule of what the law should be. According to a positive understanding of governments, the right is a question of validity of law and can only be reduced to the formal legality of the act of state authorities. It comes down to the rule of law, and this one to the legal order, in which acts are established in accordance with the principle of formal legality. In the rule of law, he's resting on the law, just like the judiciary. In the rule of law, an individual has the position of a citizen who has subjective public rights, through which he takes part in public public affairs, etc. According to the third understanding, the rule of law represents a mixture. The mark of the rule of law is to guarantee the rights of citizens and their security. What is characterized by the parallel right, I will look back at the Constitution of SR Germany, Article 61. The Constitution, Bundestag, has the right and can accuse the federal president of deliberately violating the basic law or other federal law. An application for such an indictment must be filed by at least two-thirds of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at our Constitution and its provisions and when you look at the amendment and supplementation of this law, especially those people who understand themselves in law, who are lawyers, and also an ordinary citizen here, it doesn't take much to realize that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot be violated. These changes, if allowed to be adopted, would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What will the Constitutional Court do then? Today is said on several occasions, what will the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, which now has 10 members, do? Will he be able to stand up to such a dictatorship with this kind of violence and violation of the legal order in the Republic of Serbia? What is the reason for the amendments to this law? Why isn't there a petition ministry here, like in parallel law? Ladies and gentlemen, a large number of ministries, great appetites, more political parties, individuals want privileges and therefore there is a violation of the Constitution. Therefore, the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be prevented by this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u355	The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, regardless of the tenacity of the SRS MPs to point out the legacies of this law, you will get the government in the coming period, or this law will be passed and you will get a government that is your goal. The fact today is that Cedomir Jovanovic is worried about breaking the constitution and we from the SRS agree with him. It reminds me of the period since 30 September 2006 when he, Nenad Canak, Vladan Batic and another group of hundreds of citizens waited for us MPs from this parliament and said – Boris, and one character trait, you betrayed. Today, there he is, in a position to defend that constitution. It is obvious that Serbian citizens are fully convinced that the majority that should rule in the coming period have indeed sinned against the constitution. To you, Mr. Obradovic, let me say, I'm thinking of Zarko Obradovic, because LDP people say that you cheated on the DSS, take as much as you can, because you can't take as much as they can steal from them. Of course, my colleagues, I don't mean you personally, because the Democratic Party is therefore defending its barbed positions so as not to come to where it belongs and therefore pays, I agree with the LDP's, high price. Try to outwit them too. We heard here today that during the negotiations on the formation of a future congregation majority, and then the formation of a government, you said things to each other. We are not defending you, you are still saying this, but you must not do anything for the citizens of Serbia. We will wait for you, not on the first corner, and it was designed by architect Boris Tadic, and if you succeed in overcoming it, we will wait for you in the direction and then add gas to try to do something in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Your capacities aren't going to do it, and I'm sure you won't make it, but that's why we're here to control you well. On one occasion, the LDP socialists told you -- it's a good thing you accepted to join that government, and today there's already a lot of criticism, so be it. When it comes to obtaining the bill, as an MP and an expert lawyer, I always look at which problem it regulates and how it relates to Serbia's legal system, what it finally brings to the citizens, because we are all here because of them. By carefully reading and analysing this bill, I found no reason why he is here today in the congregation procedure. In all countries of the world with developed democracy, with well-developed parliamentaryism, opposition happens to be obstructing, and then and the day when the position proposes laws that are not in the interest of citizens. We have an act to do that position is being obstructed. You've put on one completely pointless law, but I'm afraid it's not for a reason, because Mr. Gristle is angry, he doesn't like the scope of the ministry, so there's another proposal that you can agree on. Of course we don't want to talk about Mrka anymore... Just to remind the citizens of Serbia and the professional public that these two members, which you think make sense, are actually completely pointless. They are also pointless because they are directly contrary to Article 125. The constitution doesn't need to quote it because it has done countless of my colleagues, and I suppose the citizens of Serbia have understood, and the professional public, too, what this is all about. This isn't good, Comrade President, I assume you've already been dragged in... First of all, you did not respond to Dragan Todorovic's proposal to check the situation with MPs who are both presidents of municipalities and mayors, so that the session is scheduled in an inappropriate way, in a way that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and so, day after day, you will disappoint those who see a good man in you. In the end, I would like to inform you, as the most representative of the Serbian citizens, that there is a town next to a village, and it is more famous than its beautiful city, which is Loznica and the village of Basceluci. You all already know, and Mr. Petrovic and Mr. Puric know, that the elections there have already been held six times, but not because the citizens or the townspeople of the village of Basčeluci are not written or not able to vote, but because the authorities of DS and G 17 plus absolutely have influence. Yes, Mico Albianic, you're holding Love, you haven't reached Loznica yet. They have an absolute impact on the Municipal Election Commission and then on the court. Finally, she voted, or found herself in the voter's list, as if she had voted on a woman who could not vote on Saturday because of a valid document, and on the voter's list found her signature, too, disagrees with the statement she made. Nevertheless, nowhere on any voter's list has it ever been registered on the basis of which document the voter voted on, and the prerequisite for voting is one of the current documents, and here they wrote it down. I fear such well-developed democracy, we will not have such good people's power in the coming period and throughout Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u357	Thank you. The SRS has three minutes and 75 seconds left. I ask Mr. Zoran Krasic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u358	I'll probably be able to convince you in these three minutes why this bill is wrong. He is not good at all, and I would not be surprised that the future director of the Educational Institute, Mr Albianic, publishes the summation of Mr Bosko Ristic's works, the high-minded drafts of the law, along with amendments to the constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the strictest possible way. For what is proposed, in fact, there is no constitutional basis. There is a constitutional basis in terms of the authority of the National Assembly to regulate an area through law, which is a matter of government. However, the constitutional basis should also be interpreted materially and legally from the point of view of the solution offered by amendments and additions to this law. Now that we're looking at it, and that's the content and essence of the subject matter of this law, then it's without a constitutional basis. Why? Because something that is limited by the Constitution is expanding and cannot possibly spread. If you look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will see that the government, as the top executive authority, is a collegiate body. The constitutional concept enables the Prime Minister, one or more vice-presidents, and the number of vice-presidents is determined by the National Assembly in the election of the Government, as well as the number of ministers without portfolios, which are also established by the National Assembly in the election of the Government, means, in addition to the president, vice-presidents, one or more, and ministers – that is the Government. She has no deputy president, as well as the National Assembly has no deputy president of the National Assembly, because at the so-called so-called National Assembly. College bodies don't exist a deputy, there can only be a vice president. For individual management bodies such as company directors, there may be a deputy director with almost the same powers as the Director, but they shall be activated under certain conditions governed by the founding act or the company statute. Now if you apply that analogy, or if it's right to apply analogy, then you make a big mistake. It's the first thing that practically makes this first member need to be forgotten as soon as possible, that he's not even proposed. As far as this second change is concerned, it is a change in how to make a decision when the cards are mixed, so the result of the vote is zero to zero. If we go back to that logic that was run by the rapporteur on this bill then practically in this National Assembly, in the case of a vote of 125 to 125, the chairman's vote would be decisive, and the decision would be reportedly made. Fortunately, that's not when decisions are made. Unsolved vote means no decision has been made. Here, give primate one way to vote. However, if voted in secret, would it really be very interesting to find that the Prime Minister voted and that a decision was made in the event of an unresolved vote? That's why I had a little bit of fun at the beginning, so I said, "I want you to do the 11th by being Prime Minister naked, the vice presidents are the judges who set up the balls, and these unscheduled teams are trying to score as many goals as possible, and so we'd get to the results of how the government finally decided." This gave us our democracy at the head of the DS, and, please, you recognize it primarily by that – that at every corner of every step, wherever there is any possibility of the Constitution not only trampling, but also rips and, of course, people are pretending that the Constitution does not exist. Believe me, as far as these coalitions are concerned, the Constitution will not exist for them, because it restricts them, and here the Constitution does not promote this type of democracy, and this type of democracy means - everything is normal, everything is democratic if Boris Tadic said so. If Boris Tadic says it is not in line with the constitution, it is not democratic anymore, it must no longer exist and this is the side that should support it. Of course, the Government Act is not the autonomous right of one who has a congregation majority for several reasons, and I will take only one that is most important for us from the opposition and for the citizens who follow what is happening in the political life of the Republic of Serbia. We must have full law with clear and precise provisions, so that we can control the executive government as effectively as possible. This kind of game and hideout, and I see what the result of this bill is, that is, the result of this bill is the fact that in this technical government we have a president, we have a vice president who has the pretense to outdo the president. I'll only talk for two more seconds. This positive ten-month experience of government by the DS almost that in this coalition combination came as a melem to work to push through what they long intended to push through, which is, at every step, to crush the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u359	Since the list of parliamentary groups has no longer been declared for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u360	Since in the earlier part of the discussion we discussed some of the things that remained in the air and would not have been clear so far if we hadn't discussed it like this, the rest is that at the very end, I will very briefly clarify some of the issues when it comes to constitutionality, or the non-constitution of certain provisions. When it comes to the provision of Article 2 which invents the post of Deputy Prime Minister, or the first Deputy Prime Minister, or already as it is called, who will be able to do so, there is one big problem. We said that, in that case, the law implies the existence of another. As soon as he shows up first, there's got to be a second. It only opens up the need and obligation created by this assembly to itself, that the structure of the government is made in such a way that there are more vice presidents mandatory. It's not against the Constitution, it's possible. In that sense, it's no problem at all. The problem arises in that next position, when it comes to the fact that this Deputy Prime Minister or the First Vice-President is given certain powers not only by the name of the first, but also by being able, on the basis of these powers, not only to do so but also to do so according to this bill, to assist the Prime Minister in his work, where he can determine exactly what kind of business he is, even when the Prime Minister is present, thus creating a kind of co-authority that is likely to be regulated in personal relations in the government itself, in that case. The main problem, when it comes to the intensity of the law and when we compare it to the intensities of the author, and that's just us, it comes from another plan. It is impossible when the Constitution in Article 125 says that the Government has a Prime Minister, one or more vice presidents, a constitutional writer, i.e. We never thought that one of the vice presidents should be singled out by authority from any other and thus put the vice-presidents of the government in an unequal position. So not only are the Prime Minister and the other members of the government separated and placed in an unequal position, because the Prime Minister has so-called. "Golden voice", contrary to democratic principles and constitutional principles and Serbia's legal system that regulates executive power on a principle that is not a cabinet principle, we have here and such a relationship between the vice presidents themselves in which they are unequal. Therefore, this inequality introduced by this provision of Article 2 and the inequality introduced by the provision of Article 3 of this proposal of the law actually makes this proposal unconstitutional. It is sufficient that two key provisions of this bill are unconstitutional, that all other provisions, in practice, serve as a kind of normative aid in the maintenance of these two provisions, that the whole bill becomes both meaningless and unconstitutional. So that's the point, that's what you have to say about this bill. The truth is, he'd be in any situation technically. It is true that this law, as well as the Ministry Act, which we will discuss tomorrow in principle, is something that helps to form a new government and in some ways reflects the coalition agreement. That was never a dispute. That's how we last time, and before that, when the DSS was in executive power, we were justifying the adoption of regulations like this. So that's between us, hopefully, undeniable and that's not the problem. The problem is when those regulations are implemented, they cross the limits of what is permitted. It is one thing to increase or reduce the number of ministries, when individual powers are transferred from one portfolio to another, again in line with the needs of the ruling coalition. It can be criticised in different ways. When it comes to the number of vice presidents, it can be criticized. It is now clear to us that there will be more according to this bill. I can say a word of criticism here, I can say that I don't see what extraordinary circumstances would suggest that there must be more than one vice president. In two previous government meetings, there was only one. There were ministers without portfolios, there were people who took on certain special duties in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I don't see who would be the basis here. It must be something extremely strong to be politically justified. That's what we'll talk about when the government is formed, when we hear the exposés, when we see how the ministerial portfolios are distributed, who takes what and what exactly the government's vice presidents are. With this law, the problem is that you crossed that line. It is simply the right of the ruling coalition to make these laws, it is the right of the ruling coalition to determine the right measure for the government to function tomorrow, but to say the least, this is ridiculous. This effect you wanted to achieve could be achieved in another way, without such pompousness, without title – the first vice president, vice president, without giving particular importance to the role of individual politicians in your coalition, who are headed by certain parties. All this could have been different through the government's request, could have been in a way that does not offend democratic principles and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's our main grudge. Don't think for a moment that we resent the passing of these two laws. We can be against them for reasons of celery. You didn't have to put us in a position that, in one way or another, by being more or less vivid in our presentations, we attack this law from an aspect not only of Celebrities, but also of constitutionality. That's what wasn't necessary. Okay, obviously you've made up your mind. I suppose you'll have most of them to bring, which, based on today, is no longer safe. I wish you didn't have the majority. It would fill me with a special pleasure, but I guess you'll get it all worked up somehow, so in the end, we'll go back to our own business, each and every one of you, you'll explain your policy, which is not clear to you at all. You'll get a chance to do that, he'll have a chance to get a candidate to do it. Then we'll criticise it. You will receive these criticisms, all of this will be in front of the public, and we will see how things continue to develop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-30-0.u361	Are there any more interested who haven't used their rights? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I schedule a session for tomorrow, July 1st, 2008 at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 160 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 115 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vladimir Jovanovic, Bojan Kostreš, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivica Dacic and Milutin Mrkonjic. Also, I would like to inform you, honourable MPs, that during today, the first constitutional sessions of the following committees will be held: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at 11.00 in the Blue Salon, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia at 11.00 in the Press Room, the Committee on Finance at 11.15 in the Blue Salon, the Committee on Education at 11.15 in the Press Hall and the Committee on Defence and Security at 11.30 in the Blue Salon. I ask the members of those committees to attend the meetings of those committees in order to hold constitutional sessions. Also, I'd like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 37. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the DSS-NS parliamentary group, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, will be represented by MP Jovan Palalic on the 2nd agenda of the First Session of the Third Extraordinary Session. One more announcement. It is information that we will have an end to the Assembly's work due to the funeral of MP Dragana Tasic. The funeral will be on Orlovacha, and the opera starts at 14.45 p.m. from 14.00 to 16.00 p.m. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF MINISTRATIVES (principles) You have received the bill, which was submitted by 122 MPs. You have received reports from the Legislative and Justice and Administration Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds, MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS - NS - Vojislav Kostunica - 36 minutes; the G17 - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the MEP Group of Coalition SPS - PUPS - JS - 24 minutes; the LDP Group - 15 minutes and 36 seconds and the Minority Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds. I ask the parliamentary groups, if you have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
