ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8034	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam President, Article 226 concerning article 82 - preparing and calling for a session. I would like to ask the President of the National Assembly for an explanation on the agenda of the AP Vojvodina Statute. In fact, in the November 22nd daily newspaper "Today" you, Madam President, gave an interview entitled "The State of Vojvodina will not be adopted by the end of the year". You said in that interview that the Assembly is already in the teat, that many amendments have been submitted to the laws we are discussing and that the debate on them will be delayed. You also said that the statute is a dead letter on paper without the law on the application of the statutes and thus explained that the statutes will not come to the agenda of the National Assembly by the end of this year. Madam President, I would like to ask you to consult with the heads of Parliament on this subject, to see if it is really impossible for the granting of consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina to come to the agenda by the end of the current year. I would also ask you to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia if it is true that the draft law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina, or by following the law, is indeed not prepared, since I have information that the draft of this law has been prepared and that it is not impossible to give consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina by the end of the year. It is also not impossible to vote the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina. I would like to remind all MPs as well as you, Madam President, that the assembly of the AP with 89 votes "for" adopted the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina in the District Assembly on 15 October of the current year and that since 16 October, the proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina has been in the assembly procedure. I must also say that the vast majority of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina expects the National Assembly to give consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, for the reason that decentralisation is very important and that the Republic of Serbia and today is, unfortunately, the most centralised state in all of Europe. The government was created on the basis of an effort to bring this country into the EU, and social justice is also important. I would like to remind you that without decentralisation there is no EU accession, as there is no social justice. So elementary decentralisation is very important, and the first step towards decentralisation is to give consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. I hope that happens by the end of 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8035	Thank you. With regard to the Statute of Vojvodina, I would just like to tell you that, with the agreement of the relevant state factors, factors and positions that decide when to put that agenda on the agenda, we have an agreement, which I told you orally. It is therefore that the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, in agreement with me, suggested that the agenda item - giving consent to the Vojvodina Statute - should be at the same time as the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina, or act governing the application of the Statute. The moment that this is agreed upon and the document arrives, I will do so, but I fully agree with you that this is the topic that we need to discuss at the meeting with the heads of Parliament and that I need to make additional efforts and inform myself of what dynamics is happening. My assessment of when it would come to the agenda was consistent, first of all, with these facts that I have now informed you about. On Article 30. The amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. The government and the Justice Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Radeta was talking about this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 31. The amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Krasic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8036	Of course, and this amendment is, in the play of amendments coming from such an applicant of the amendments, pointless, but I have no intention of praising the government now because they're going to think they're very good, so that my praise is not beyond all possible frameworks. What's it really about? It is an amendment to Article 31. The member shall regulate the duties of notifying and submitting applications, as regards the decision-making process of incompatibility. It's a situation where, in addition to the judge's office, the judge performs another, let's say, a broader, watched, social function. The amendment keeps asking for something pointless, to add the words "or the absence" in attitude 2 after the words "about existence". To use intellectual abilities for this nonsense is unnecessary. However, what is important and what I think the judges should know, because, in the end, this law will concern the most of their status and the possibility of them doing this job in accordance with the Constitution and the law, I must state that I believe that the situation of incompatibility is a function governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's Article 152: "It's forbidden the political functioning of the judges. The law regulates what other functions, jobs or private interests are incompatible with the judicial function'. From the fact that the ban is clearly stemming from a warrant to regulate it by law. The provision to regulate it, or to be used in regulating the law, is certainly linked to the provisions on the termination of the judicial function. I have to read that too, so the judges know what this is about. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 148: "The judge ceases his office at his request, by acting under the law of the prescribed conditions... ". One is a variant, so if this incompatibility of functions occurs, that it may be one of the conditions for stopping the judicial function. So it could have been placed as a legally prescribed condition requiring the termination of the judge's office. Next: "... or by allowing for the law of the intended reasons... ". You're missing the notification obligation or violating this ban brought down on a disciplinary offense. But you've reduced it to a disciplinary offense, which I must draw your attention to, Article 62. It's a bill of law. And now, if you look at the provisions on disciplinary responsibility, first of all Article 90, you will see that there is no disciplinary violation -- incompatibility of functions, in a broader context observed. The question is, what were you actually doing? I can understand that the judge who violates this incompatibility ban, that that fact itself may be the reason for the resolution, but you didn't write it that way. You wrote that if you miss that commitment or come into conflict of interest, that's why you're conducting a disciplinary procedure. In addition to the provisions on disciplinary proceedings, I believe that the provisions on disciplinary proceedings against judges have no place in the law on judges. Because if you against a judge can conduct a disciplinary procedure and give him these disciplinary sanctions, disciplinary measures, then the question is what is his credibility that he shares justice with other people. I agree that everything you have stated as a disciplinary offense may be the basis for a judge's resolution. This is a completely different approach to this problem. By constitution and by law, you have an obligation to guarantee an independent and independent judiciary. How can you guarantee an independent and independent judiciary when there is a possibility that you can discipline the judge and he can continue to judge? That's impossible. Mentally and logically impossible variant. Anything you have stated as a disciplinary violation may be the reason for the judge's discharge proceedings. And there's the beginning and the end of the story. I would not like to enter the fine details of Article 31 now because the amendment applies to that member, but I can't understand how you -- have you forgotten, have you dropped it, have you dropped it out of the text -- I guess in the first place you had to provide for the judge's obligation that, when there is doubt that there is a conflict of interest between the judicial function and some of its social or private functions it performs, I guess he must first inform the President of his court. It's elemental. The judge is obliged first to inform the president of the court he is working in, so the president of the court has the case to pass on to the High Council of the judiciary to determine whether there is any interference, so that if there is a disturbance, that the man is not involved in this other business so as not to get in trouble. You've got this "astumbali" and in the end you have, in my opinion, a strange provision, saying, "The President of the Court is required to file a disciplinary report as soon as he finds out that the judge is doing the job or does the procedures for which there is a possibility that they are incompatible with his function." Where was that before? In the previous position, the High Council of the Judiciary decides. Given the situation in our courts, N.N. The judge from the municipal court (by your terminology, from the basic court) submits a notice to the High Court of Justice, does not have to inform the President of the court, the job is done and they say - there is no interference, you can do one and the other work. The man goes to do both jobs, the president hears he's doing two jobs, he's running a disciplinary procedure, and not knowing that he's already provided... So the President of the Court is unforgivable, he's the commander of that parade in court. How can someone communicate with the High Judicial Council without the President of the Court? It's impossible. The President of the Court is this two-way communication. As in the National Assembly - whatever you want to do in the National Assembly, you write to the president of the National Assembly. The President of the Assembly doesn't have to watch, but he stands at the head of those services that deploy where he goes, what organisational work within the Assembly. It's some kind of normal communication. They don't have the opportunity to see that normal communication. To go back to what's most important in all of this. In this provision, the High Council of the judiciary must be extremely careful. Why? Because we have judges who do scientific work, we have judges who publish their texts in publications (no matter whether it's a magazine or a scientific publication), we have judges who are able to hold some lectures (to prepare them), we have judges who, unfortunately, are engaged in and private work (which, indirectly - through their wife) and I think that this provision on incompatibility of functions, I'm so few people-defined -- incompatibility of the judge's function, I think it's necessary to approach it carefully, so that there's no harm done. In any case, scientific work and publishing in the field of law is a function that does not interfere with the judicial function, but all other affairs are disturbing. I have to draw your attention to these small communities, small municipalities, where judges, prosecutors, the President of the Court -- not because of this function they perform, but as people -- are still known and famous. If there are some small sports clubs, where their children are engaged in some sport (handball, volleyball, etc.).I know a few cases where you've been making some recommendations that these people are no longer in the business and that sport no longer exists in that place. And it's not about profitability, it's about something that's amateur. And that's why I'm saying, it's supposed to be extremely subtle here. The judge who judges in Belgrade and the judge who judges in Babusnica cannot be compared. If a judge in Babusnica, through his child and the football department, drives them to games, helps or is there in the management of that small club, it doesn't bother his judicial function, but if he's in Belgrade, so he's in the presidency of Partizana or the Red Star, that's a different story. That's why we need to access this subtly. I object to a disciplinary case against the judge. Because if there's a disciplinary case against a judge, you don't have a judge, you have a man who does business and work. Then make an industrial worker out of the judge. The judge must not perform that function, so he must not be in a position to be threatened by the president of the court, the High Council of the judiciary, the disciplinary commission, the prosecutor. You've placed a whole chapter unnecessary. All this can be the reason for the resolution, not the decision of the disciplinary commission, and on the basis of it to seek resolution. Why do I say that? Due to a provision guaranteeing that any decision on the termination of the judge's office may be brought before the Constitutional Court. It's a newspaper according to the new constitution. You're going to have a situation -- he was being held on a disciplinary basis, he got something, and then on the basis of this disciplinary procedure, he conducted a procedure of resolution (probably by automation), and then he asked for protection when he was resolved before the Constitutional Court. What's he asking for protection from? What's he attacking? The discharge act. But there's a previous act. That means, if you're looking for someone, he doesn't exist in court anymore. These are the means of pressure on judges. Dismiss the provisions on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges and transfer them to all grounds for resolution. You can raise the same effect if you want to stabilise the court, but in one dignified way that guarantees respect for the independence and independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8037	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Sreto Peric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8038	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to reform the judiciary, in addition to the legislative proposals that we have here on the agenda, two more preconditions need to be met. The first, according to us from the SRS and the basic, is to get rid of the justice system of all those who are not professional and capable, who are not worthy of judicial functions and those who judge on the basis of dictated judgments. It's one of the reasons, very important. The second reason is that the material position of judicial officials is to be resolved in an adequate manner. In article 39, fellow MP Vladan Batic suggested how and how material status and the position of all judicial holders should be taken into account, as we believe that court staff should also have adequate treatment on the matter of material position. When we explained the set of laws in the area of justice, we got the impression that Mrs. Minister and what she explained here entered into the details of these legal regulations, but if we look at this law on judges, I get the impression that some of the provisions of this law remain even unread. I will prove it on the basis of the provisions of this law, but let me say that the provisions of this law and the material position contained in the sixth chapter of the Law on Judges' Development of Article 4 of this Law. In order for everything to be perfectly clear and, as you like to say, transparently, I must read Article 4 of this Law, where it is said: Material Independence – "The judge has the right to pay enough to maintain his independence and the safety of his family. The salary of the judge must be consistent with the dignity of the judge's office and the burden of responsibility.' To this member of the law, Batic submitted an amendment, he was accepted and now Article 4 reads: The judge has the right to pay in accordance with the dignity of the judge's office and his responsibility. Position 2: The salary of the judge means the guarantee of his independence and the safety of his family. And in the original article 4, and also in this one now, accepted by the Batic amendment, attitude 2 comes from the fact that other persons do not have families. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have families too. But families have miners, and unemployed persons, and farmers and everyone else, so they don't even care about them, not their families. We still feel that adequate compensation is needed for the holders of judicial functions. Article 4 of this law, which is discussed in more detail in Article 37, says: "The judge has the right to pay... '". It's the beginning of Article 1, but Article 37 says, "The judge has the right to pay... '". Therefore, this Article 4 has become meaningless because Article 37, or Chapter VI, which has six members, fully and in detail is dealing with the compensation or salary of judges and the President of courts. In Article 37, Madam Minister, which I have pointed out to you that I am under the impression that you may not have reached all the members to read, it says: "The coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salary is determined by the fact that each judge is classified as one of the five paying groups... '"which is perfectly clear to all, without any dilemma, but in Article 38, which follows immediately after that member, is classified as six paying groups. So a single pay group appears more than in the previous member. We believe and need it, I guess, to make the legal system work and not to be the opposite of ourselves, that certain laws must also be harmonised without talking about certain provisions in the very law that are contrary to each other. Article 38 fully devises and denies Article 37(5). When determining which of the judges enters which pay group and one discrepancies are made here, it is said that judges are entering the first pay group for violations. There, therefore, is a clear distinction between judges for violations and judges of the basic courts, who enter the second paying group. When it comes to the presidents of these courts, the third group is placed in the third group of judges of both economic and senior misdemeanor courts. If there is a difference between the basic court and the criminal court, then there should be a difference between the High Court and the High Court of Commerce. It means that this provision is not right either. What is specifically foreseen by the amendment of Vladan Batic regarding Article 39, I now have to compare it, and there must be seven paying groups, not five, as stated in the provision of Article 37. Article 39 of the Law provides that the first payment group has a coefficient of 2.5; the amendment proposed 3.5. Second canvas group - coefficient 3; amendment is proposed 4. Third canvas group - 3.5; amendment - 4.5. The fourth canvas group has a coefficient of 4; by amendment - 5. Fifth canvas group - coefficient 5; amendment - 5.5. The sixth canvas group has a coefficient of 6, and the amendment provides for 6.5. Of course, this amendment was in government and government, during its argument that this amendment is not accepted, indicates that certain funds should be provided and that this would not be good. We believe that budgets should not be treated wastefully, and this amendment is acceptable for the MPs of the SRS for the reasons that judges are those people who decide on freedom. If someone has the obligation to decide on freedom, he should be adequate and treated, to have adequate personal income, or compensation for his work. But we also have a concrete proposal where we can save to provide these funds for compensation, or for the salaries of judges. You will see when colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic explains her amendment to Article 40 (if accepted and accepted) that some of the funds will be provided for judges' salaries as provided for in the amendment. And on the condition that there is no amendment, we responsibly argue that if what the head of the SRS parliamentary group yesterday was prevented, Mr Dragan Todorovic spoke, and you saw how much funds from the Republika Srpska budget, or the pockets of Serbian citizens, were taken by only one individual or one company, Nikola Tesla Airport in Belgrade. But people like that need to be brought to trial. Who's running this process? The prosecution, the Ministry of Interior and the final decision on this is brought by the court and the funds. And such companies and such irresponsible officials in Serbia are certainly hundreds. The opposition is being fought hard by Serbian and Serbian citizens and the SRS listens and realises the interests of Serbian citizens. In order to be able to do so to the end, it is necessary that both this amendment and the amendment to Article 40, which was submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, be accepted and then you, Madam Minister, will be left without the arguments, which is why you do not accept these amendments by calling for a lack of funds to be provided. A judicial function, you know it well, is one of the very responsible, I won't say difficult, because there are a lot of citizens in this country who do harder jobs. They are less responsible, but we must keep in mind and the weight of these jobs and responsibilities, and that would be a good way and for a positive selection when recruiting people into the judiciary because then it would be an interest of young and professional people first to do a traineeship in court and then to be elected to the highest judicial office holders if they were given a chance. The judicial work should be loved, but, among other things, it is necessary for it to be properly paid and we would then have more than half the problems the SRS points to, and based on the demands and interests of the citizens, to a good extent and to resolve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8039	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Krasic wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8040	It's an amendment to Article 40. It's a bill of law, as far as the President of the Court's salary is concerned. I'll read how the government suggested that, according to them, it should look like this member. He says - The Court's basic salary: "The President's basic salary is determined by increasing the judge's salary by: 10% in court to 20 judges; 15% in court to 40 judges; 20% in court to 60 judges; 25% in court to 80 judges; 30% in court to 80 judges". Item 2: 'Station 1 of this article shall not apply to the President of the Supreme Cassation Court', and he shall be the sixth canvas group, where he has a coefficient of 6. Batic suggested it would be 6.50 in the previous amendment. Mrs. Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment to the 40th and wherever these percentages are, she suggested that this all be reduced by 5%. However, of course, when the government gave its answers and opinions on these amendments, it was likely managed by some of its interests and was indeed a waste of time if all cases of contradiction were now to be pointed out. What did the government say about this amendment, Mrs. Pop-Lazic? The government replied this way (if someone understands it now, it will probably help others understand it too): 'Amendman is not accepted for the reason it was evaluated' (means, the government has assessed) ''that the number of judges and the size of the court for which one president of the court is responsible is important to determine the quality of the work in the court... '". What does this have to do with anything? Come on, I'll read it one more time, put your finger on your forehead (there is no ideologist of the Democratic Party, went to Boris Tadic). You say this: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the number of judges is estimated to be 20, 30, 40, but good" and the size of the court... "What is the size of a court? What is the size of a building? Do you consider the court's size basic, senior, appealal? What is the size of a court - ground floor and floor? I don't know what you mean. ) "... For which one president of the court is responsible, the quality of the court's work is important... ". You know, the quality of working in court is primarily determined by judges who judge, then all those who participate in the trial as court staff and probably, eventually, the president of the court who has the task of organising it all. If you've already taken the criteria to be the size of the court, and you've expressed it through the number of judges, then it's not clear what this difference is about and why it needs to be paid so much more responsibility. You have in courts and presidents of courts who are not at all interested in cases, who say this - which I would be interested in this case when the judge is independent, bear responsibility and let him do the case. You have such judges. We have had a situation since we adopted these three new, very important procedural laws - on the executive procedure, on litigation and criminal proceedings, that the procedure has been accelerated to inconceivable proportions - as a dead letter on paper, and in practice there is no. Here they swore to us, Mrs. Stankovic, who wrote the draft law on litigation, Mr. Škulić, who wrote the Code of Criminal Procedure, I think Hiber and that Gaša were doing that law on executive procedure, they swore through the arguments of their proposals: one, two, possibly three hearings and the end. Tell me, what trial has been completed in the last three years at the second or third hearing? He's gone. Is that right, Cossic? You were here then, as a representative of the government. That's how it's explained here. Stojkovic explained it too, so I told him, Zoran, so he can't do it like that. And he says, let's go, let's try, let's see. He can't, and you can see he can't. We think it's not good to make that big pay gap. Now, before we have something that's inherited, we have the presidents of the courts who judge, we have the presidents of the courts who don't judge. If the President of the Court is the head of that judicial administration and the organisation of all this, we see no reason for so much rewarding upwards. Otherwise, the quality of working in a court where there are 25 judges and where there are 65 judges can be identical without any influence from the President of the Court. Secondly, I must draw attention to the fact that in our procedural laws there has been a kind of reduction in the authority of the President of the Court to act on cases. Earlier regulations were more often asked by the President of the Courts of Justice about current cases, whether as a member of an extrajudicial council or outside the debate to decide on a status issue. Now it has fallen by some percentage. You can imagine that 30 percent higher salary has the president of the court, and he's sitting in court and he's just... , he would have to do other jobs, but in practice we have that he receives lawyers and parties, deals with molar business, phone and information. So he's doing high-spirited jobs that have practically nothing to do with the quality of the trial in living objects, absolutely nothing to do with it. And he's given a little bit more. He should be a little more, and I think Mrs. Pop Lazic has found the right measure. When these percentages are reduced, then it would turn out to be his salary, let's say for a court that has up to 20 judges, is 5% higher than the judge's salary. However, here comes a system of large numbers, and it is estimated that the higher courts with much higher numbers of judges than the basic courts, and then here it counts that the Court of Appeal will probably have more than one higher courts, so various mathematics is being made here. However, I don't think you should have paid to tie them to the number of judges in a court of law, but to tie them to the name of the court. The President of the Court of Appeal will see the situation more frequently to take some legal position that his intervention is needed than the president of the basic court. Simply, the job is that, and it is, in any case, some additional activity where the President of the Court with his knowledge and experience should help a fellow judge finish the job, or department in a court of law, etc. I think that's where you made the peas because you tied up... Look, now we have that third law, fourth. The theoretically possible situation is that the President of the Court of Appeal has a higher salary than the president of a court that is above, and is not the same responsibility. We are now going back to what you wrote in the law, and what we criticised yesterday – the courts of the republican rank. It doesn't mean anything at all. I think this reduction by 5% is one good estimate, which doesn't interfere with your concept. You know we have a completely different concept, but this doesn't interfere with your concept. But why else did we suggest it? We suggested that because of the insolence of the President of the Court who would like to have a 30% higher salary than any judge in his court, because he wants to have a 30% higher salary, someone on the side would not affect him. He wants to have a much bigger salary and, because he wants to have a bigger salary, he, if necessary, has to go from office to office to beat the judges to finish the job. I'm getting the impression that your intention was precisely that, not to make up my mind, to find some measure for the President's contribution to the performance of the judge's office. Why did you tie to the quality of the judge's office? A judge's office can't be high-quality and unquality. You start to share it all, you rip it right off, you go straight to some divisions. I suggest you accept this amendment. It is not the point of this amendment in some major monetary savings of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but in a principled relationship with the presidents of the courts and their responsibility for performing the judicial function. Don't tie that to quality and unquality. You say in the beginning that the court has no quality. That's not good. It's just, from all these provisions you can see a toothpick, some spare variant, a spare position, that you need this very formula because it allows some interpretation and some influences, etc. There, that's the problem, especially this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8041	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are talking about an amendment to Article 42, where it is proposed to replace in attitude 1 - 50% with 20%, in attitude 2 - 100% with 30%, and in attitude 4 - 50% with 15%. Therefore, it is a member of Article 42, which says: "The basic salary of a judge who performs his duties in a court in which judges can not be filled can be increased to 50%. The basic salary of a judge acting in criminal cases with an element of organised crime and war crimes can be increased to 100%. The decision to increase the basic salary referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this Article shall be taken by the High Council of the judiciary. The basic salary of the Deputy President of the Court is increased by 50% of the increases set out in Article 40(1) of this Act. "What's the point of the amendment? In an explanation, the government said the number of crimes with an element of organised crime being tried is on the rise. But first of all, we have here in mind, on the one hand, judges who do not increase profits, because only three categories of judges fall under this article, to increase their earnings, while the rest remain without the ability to increase profits. But the problem lies in one other thing, which is much more serious. Here, as you've seen, crimes with the element of war crimes are mentioned. There's a question of how this country is being tried for war crimes and whether it's being tried at all. He's on trial, but under the full control of the tribunal in The Hague. Since I see certain people laughing here in the first place, I must say immediately that crimes against the Serb people are almost not being tried, which is just amazing. I'll give you one piece of information, that the largest exhibition on genocide to the Serbian people in 2003 was set on fire at the Parish House in Vranj. It's an exhibition this country never had. It covered the period 1941-1945 and 1991-1992, just about these acts and these crimes that you state (I will read later) and which are being tried before the Special Court. The material value of this exhibition, as I said earlier, is 300,000 euros, the immaterial value is invaluable. The author of the exhibition is Bojana Isaković. In 2003 it was set on fire, until today and today it was not established who set it on fire. Imagine the importance of this exhibition in this process against the Republic of Croatia, as Ovčar, Vukovar and so on are mentioned. These were not just photographs; they contained numerous documents ( objects, objects) on the execution of criminal acts, i.e. genocide. To this day and day, no one has determined what happened to that exhibit. It is obvious that our country is not interested in the crime of genocide against Serbs. You put that on the side. You mention some ethnic cleansing in a possible case against Croatia, etc. That exhibition would be a treasure today. But the second question arises -- why is it that in the war crimes court, it is avoided to launch processes related to war crimes against Serbs? I'll show you (99% is on the other side), here's the evidence. The government of the Republic of Serbia sent national MPs the National Programme for the Integration of Serbia to the EU, saying: Regional Co-operation and International Obligations – Co-operation Forms: "Co-operation with the ICTY takes place through several segments: the arrest and transfer of defendants; co-operation on the finding of witnesses and suspects; the delivery of documentation; the maintenance of regular contacts with tribunal representatives, especially the ICTY prosecutors; regional co-operation... The prosecution has so far been provided with hundreds of thousands of documents... " (You couldn't exactly put in a precise number, as if it were potatoes. These are very important documents, but let's see what kind of documents they are. ) "... including confidential documents from the Supreme Defence Council session, the Ministry of Defence, state security agencies, the MUP and other bodies. Since mid-2006, the ICTY Prosecutor's Office has had a general and direct insight into all archives of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia... "This kind of authority has no one, no M.O.P., no B.I.A., not even the government has this kind of authority. ) "... That licence of insight resulted in a significant increase in the number of requests of the ICTY prosecutor's office, which for the same reason are much more extensive than in previous years." Then it is said that the chief prosecutor (or chief prosecutors, as already being replaced) praises the government, but here, in connection with war crimes trials in Serbia itself, means in front of the Special Court: "The newly established judicial authorities for war crimes have prosecuted more than 100 war crimes suspects. Different procedures against these persons are at different stages - from the stage of the investigation to the procedures that have ended with the decision-making process. These proceedings, although procedurally separated, are known as the following cases: the Avengers case, the Smurfs case, the Sheepman case... (You just had, say, an Ovcaru processed in this exhibition that I was talking about, which was incinerated in 2003, which is related to genocide over the Serbian people. A complete case, meaning not only partially, as represented in the Tribunal and elsewhere, but completely as it happened, from beginning to end. )......................................................................................................... The Zvornik case, the Scorpions case, the Batajnica case, the Hunts case. The war crimes prosecutor has been actively cooperating and cooperating with the KMTJ Prosecutor's Office in the preparation of these cases.' (So you said yourself that the tribunal is preparing your cases.) I have already cited a large number of problems concerning the functioning of the tribunal in The Hague at all. One of the most difficult problems is the introduction of collective guilt. They're not judging for individual criminal responsibility, they're judging for collective criminal responsibility. It's an analysis of American experts. They're doing it through the concept of a joint criminal enterprise. American professors Allen Dershowitz, who comes from Harvard University, then Jenny Martinez, who comes from Stanford University, cited these examples. This is not at all controversial, that the third category of joint criminal enterprise is practically the introduction of collective guilt into circulation. They have started applying a joint criminal enterprise since 2001, since Duško Tadic's verdict. Eight years before that, they didn't apply it at all. Why? Because he is not in the tribunal's Statute. They invented it after eight years. Since 2001, over 70% of the rulings against Serbs have been based on a joint criminal enterprise. Why do you think? It's precisely this concept of collective criminal responsibility. Here's what they say, let's say, American experts from the University of Berkeley, again related to the joint criminal enterprise. This was posted on their official site, on the University of Berkeley website - If the extensive UZP form, category three, has no clear precedent in World War II era cases, then it really reminds of the other two controversial doctrines, the prosecution of criminal organisations and the crime of conspiracy, which were used before the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg. Just to explain, they are here analysing a call in the tribunal's rulings, calling for the legal practice of the international military tribunals created after World War II and proving that there is no basis for that, i.e. that they don't apply that practice at all, that they even do the opposite. On the side that they do not apply a crime against peace, which was tried in front of the military tribunals, above all. The tribunal's representatives do not call for the most important acts of the military court's jurisdiction in Nuremberg, as well as its practice in this regard, because it is not in favour of them. When we talk about the court's practice in Nuremberg, relating to criminal organisations, it should be pointed out (so it is written by the Americans) that the judges of the International Military Tribunal have shown significant discomfort in deciding in these cases. Namely, neither the London Charter, which regulated the Nuremberg trials, nor the indictment in which the prosecution's charges were brought, gave the prosecution no definition of criminal organisations. You give it almost daily. The judges finally concluded that the prosecutor had to prove that the organisation had necessarily existed as a group entity, and that its members had to be clear that they were serving the common objective. The judges also found it necessary for the organisation to be declared criminally necessary for the organisation's criminal goals to be pervasive and accepted among members. This does not apply to the category of three joint criminal enterprise, nor to category two relating to concentration camps, nor to category one. In the end, judges in Nuremberg removed four of the seven incriminating organizations from the list. Only the state summit of Germany - the Gestapo and SS troupes were declared a criminal. Finally, the judges changed the burden of proof and ruled that in the subsequent proceedings, the prosecution must prove that every person tried for membership in the criminal organisation had joined the organisation voluntarily - not applicable to category three - and that the organisation had known that it had participated in crimes in the London Charter - did not apply to the category of three joint criminal enterprise, which is applied by the tribunal. If the prosecutor for this last one could not carry out evidence, then he would be obliged to show that the defendant personally participated in such crimes - but does not apply to the category of three joint criminal enterprise, which is applied by the tribunal in The Hague. In subsequent proceedings, the Prosecutor's Office was forced to bear the burden of proving the military and conscious participation of each individual in a group with criminal objectives. So, all the opposite practices of the tribunal in The Hague. Practice related to other acts tried in Nuremberg also does not contribute to the interpretation of the joint criminal enterprise. Article 6 The Nuremberg Charter incriminates the conspiracy as a crime against peace. It is not the tribunal's jurisdiction in The Hague. Guess why, because we know who caused the war. The verdict relating to the envelopment of crime, which extends to about 1,000 pages, contains a section of three pages entitled "Right on the subject of a common plan or conspiracy". In it, the war tribunal judges in Nuremberg adopt a restrictive concept of conspiracy, reject the use of a conspiracy against humanity and war crimes, and finally limit the conviction of conspiracy to wage an aggressive war and to persons high-ranking in Hitler's leadership who actively participated in the planning of aggression, therefore, crimes against peace. Using these criteria, the judges concluded that evidence confirms joint planning, preparation and warmaking by certain indictees. Of the 22 accused of conspiracy, only eight were convicted, with the plot not playing a significant role in final judgments. Moreover, in considering individual convictions in a conviction for a crime against humanity and war crimes, neither the responsibility for conspiracy nor responsibility for a common plan is mentioned. Finally, the scope of the plot in Nuremberg was significantly conspired by the war tribunal judges, and played a prominent role only in terms of crimes against peace. So again, let me mention -- a crime that is not being tried either by us or by the international judiciary, and of course before the UN tribunal in The Hague. The UN tribunal in The Hague apparently opposes the court practice of the Nuremberg military tribunal even though it is being called upon. The concept of a joint criminal enterprise, adopted by the tribunal, and in particular the third category, practically introduces a small door to responsibility based on collective guilt. In this case, it is simply astounding that the government boasts co-operation with the tribunal in The Hague, that the government says in this national plan of joining the European Union that the war crimes prosecutor has been actively co-operating and has co-operated with the tribunal's prosecution in the preparation of all cases concerning the war crimes trial in Serbia. This is a catastrophic situation. First, it's against the constitution, it's contrary to international law. You've seen from the analysis of these American experts that they feel the same way. So I urge you to stop this practice and start respecting the Constitution, the laws and international law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8043	Thank you. Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by MP Boris Aleksic, he explained it, and I would just like to ask that question on another practical basis. What do these judges now deserve, as provided for in Article 52, to have almost double the salary of judges of the district court and other courts? With what? Nothing. This is the politicization of our justice system. Why don't we have in mind that the judges in the county court are also on trial for murder, and the most serious crimes of other crime, the one in the area of economic crime and other crimes where the maximum possible punishment is being threatened? What's he supposed to serve this provision for now? We now need to court the Hague tribunal, to court our enemies, to have such a situation in our country that it is disastrous, so now it is necessary to single out a number of judges who will only judge those crimes. And let's say that now it's a disaster and an increase in the crime of organized crime. That's not the point, ladies and gentlemen, the problem. The problem is that it is not done, that it is not tried for certain crimes that deserve to be prosecuted without the pressure and intervention of the government and the executive authorities. So there's no explanation or justification. The possibility should be given and provided for in this provision of Article 42 so that judges in this area can increase their wages as proposed. When it comes to the presidents of the courts and their deputies, do you know what they are responsible for? They are burdened with counselling in Zlatibor, Vrnjačka Banja, Palić, Koviljača, Sokobanja and other places and travel in the country and abroad. That's why they're loaded, poor, and I feel sorry for them. Nothing is the President of the Court more burdened than a judge in charge of 200-300 cases in the course of the year to be resolved. (President: Time. ) And we had practice, in the annual reports of the President of the Courts, there is also an impressive number of cases solved by the President of the Court, which were usually some side requests and do not deserve attention to be treated as they are. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8045	The word has the vice-president of the Assembly, Mrs Judita Popovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8046	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, reporting for the submission of the amendment to Article 42 of the Law on Judges. On behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, I would not support this amendment. Moreover, we believe that this member of the law is very good at rewarding judges, and here's why. First of all, the position of the 1st member states that "the basic salary of a judge who performs his duties in a court in which judges can not be filled can be increased to 50%". This is a rational solution, because we have a situation that professional, trained people, dignified, so people who can perform that judicial function in some courts simply don't want to go, for various reasons. Whether it's about places that aren't attractive enough, some smaller cities or something, that we're not going into the essence of why you don't go to these courts, the point is that then these courts don't have enough professional and good staff to perform such a serious and responsible function as the judge's function. People are best rewarded by material means. Therefore, we welcome that the government has also accepted this rationality and reality and has offered an increase in salary to those people who are professional, capable and dignified and can carry this burden of serious functions of performing a judicial duty in some place that would otherwise not be particularly attractive to them. The position of the 2nd member states that "the basic salary of a judge acting in criminal cases with an element of organised crime and war crimes can be increased to 100%". We also welcome this solution for the following reasons. When a judge accepts such extremely responsible and dangerous duties as an organized crime trial or war crimes proceedings, he indeed takes on himself a far greater burden of responsibility than those judges who otherwise act in regular courts and other special courts. Because this burden of responsibility has been significantly increased, it is quite rational and justified to replace these people in some way with all the uncertainty that is surely accompanying in their lives when they act in such serious cases, in such serious situations as the crimes of organised crime and war crimes. So it's also about people who appear on the defendant's benches that are far more organized, far more dangerous than those common criminals that the judges face in other courts, so why do these people who have taken on these serious responsibilities and not reward them? So we welcome the government's decision to at least increase those salaries, to sort of repay them for that duty they took on themselves. Otherwise, as far as these organised crime courts are concerned, there has been this practice before, as far as these salaries are concerned, so it is quite appropriate for it to continue. In these proceedings, otherwise, I would particularly point out, usually judge particularly good judges, especially stable and dignified judges. Therefore, it is also one of the reasons why they need to raise their wages. We therefore propose that the amendment should not be adopted and we believe that there are good solutions set out in this Article of the 42nd Law on Judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8047	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Dejan Mirovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 44 and its purpose is to tighten the criteria for judges, but in that positive sense, not in a sense which is characteristic of the proposal for a law on judges, especially for its transitional and final provisions. The amendment requires greater work experience compared to what is proposed in Article 44(1). So the amendment refers to the third chapter of the law that regulates the choice of judges. In particular, to the necessary work experience after a judicial examination has been passed. The text of the bill requires two years of working experience for the judge of the criminal court, the amendment proposes a three-year period. A three-year deadline is foreseen for a judge of the basic court, the amendment proposes five years. A deadline of six years is foreseen for the judge of the senior court, the Court of Commerce and the Higher Violent Court, the amendment proposes a 10-year period. For the Court of Appeals, the Court of Commerce and the Administrative Court of Appeal is scheduled for an eight-year period. We think it's more appropriate than 15 years. Finally, 20 years are proposed for the Supreme Cassation Court judge instead of the planned 12 years. So our proposals for tightening the criteria for judges were directed in this direction and are not contrary to Article 146. The Constitution, which guarantees that the judge's office is permanent, nor with Article 149, which guarantees the independence of the judge and prohibits any influence in the performance of the judge's office. This cannot be said for members of 100th and 101th, who in a weakly disguised way introduce lustration into our judiciary and allow political influence on judges. Besides, that's what the profession claims, and it can also be concluded by people who are not lawyers when they analyze how the High Council of the Judiciary is elected to re-election judges. It is enough to say that members of the High Council are elected by the majority in parliament and that he is a member of this body and a minister himself. Also, if the Society is a judge against the provisions of this law, and it is known that there are about 2,400 judges in Serbia and that there are some 1,600 judges in the Judges' Society, then it is clear that something is wrong with this law and that it should be withdrawn from the procedure. Dragana Boljevic, president of the Association of Judges, said on 18 November 2008: "We have a very well-founded view, and the professors of the Faculty of Law at the previous expert debate confirmed that the re-election is absolutely unconstitutional. That's lustration. Then, the Society's president also states: "The Justice Ministry originally explained that re-election is needed to reduce the number of judges by 400. The Venice Commission has responded that this is done naturally, by making judges retire or by offering them a temporary pension.' The president of the Society of Judges also reminds the following: "Then came the story that the network of courts should be changed, and when that network changes, there must be re-election of judges." That kind of explanation is weird because in article 150. The constitution states that if a court is suspended in which a judge judges, the judge continues to exercise judicial office in a court that has taken over the jurisdiction of the previous judge. This is not the reason for stopping the judge's post, because the judge's office is permanent and it is a guarantee of judicial independence. Finally, the president of the Association of Judges knocks down and the most frequently used interpretations: 'Then came the interpretation that this means removing the incompetent, unprofessional and corrupt. That, of course, could have been done by now, but that's not the reason for the general re-election. This is an interpretation of the profession and these are arguments that can hardly be challenged. They are joined even by Serbian Supreme Court President Vida Petrovic-Skero. She admitted at the extraordinary Assembly of the Judges' Society in 16.11.2008 that the re-election of judges was unconstitutional and led to the lustration of judges, and that some changes in the set of judicial laws were not carried out in a legitimate manner, with the consultation of the judicial profession. So, exactly what we're saying in this debate. How bitter the proposal for a law on judges also suggests that the Society of Judges has asked the European Judges for an opinion on the re-election of judges in Serbia. All this clearly says that the text of the law needs to be corrected, and the first step in that direction would be to accept the amendments. Also, the re-election of judges acting in this way threatens the right guaranteed by Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights, which is the right to a fair trial. In principle, we cited some European Court of Human Rights rulings that define the term "independent and impartial court" under this right. On the occasion of this amendment, we will give an example from the practice of the UN Human Rights Committee. It is known that the work of the Committee on Human Rights is based on the provisions of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights and Faculty Protocols under this Pact, more specifically on Article 14 of the Pact. Therefore, it is about widely accepted international standards, which have a broader meaning than the European Convention on Human Rights and Practices of the European Court of Justice, which is restricted exclusively by regional law. In this context of universal determination, the concept of "unbiased and independent court" in the known case of "Polaj Campos v Peru", which is among the 50 most significant in the practice of this Committee, the Committee for Human Rights has found (naturally, considering how courts work in the state of Peru): "The system does not guarantee the fundamental aspect of fair trial, within the meaning of Article 14 of this Pact, that the court must be independent and impartial and that it must be experienced as such." I remind you, in principle, we cited a similar definition of the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of Campbell and Fel. Unfortunately, the proposal for a law on judges, when compared to these universal and regional criteria, does not leave the possibility, even seemingly, that our judiciary can be independent or that it can make such an impression. Also, in a ruling of 29 April 1989, the European Court of Human Rights set clear criteria on whether a court is in accordance with Article 6. European Conventions on Human Rights: "According to the caselaw of the Court, the concept of a court is essentially determined by its judicial function, i.e. that it raises questions from its jurisdiction and on the basis of legal norms and after a procedure which has been carried out in a prescribed manner." The European Court of Human Rights, then, also points out: "This concept must satisfy other conditions: independence, especially executive bodies, impartiality, the duration of the term of office of members of the court and the guarantee provided in the procedure". Ladies and gentlemen, from the above, in the principle of discussion and discussion on amendments, it is clear that no comprehensive consultation with the profession has been carried out and that no account has been taken of what is prescribed by international standards in this area. So there are too many policies in this bill and that is why it is necessary for amendments to at least somewhat correct this error. Also, it was discussed in principle whether there was enough public debate on this bill. I'd like to point out just one detail. A public debate on the set of judicial laws opened at the Media Centre on 29 October. The minister responsible for the judiciary, acting as Republic Public Prosecutor, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and President of the Supreme Court of Serbia participated. So there can't be anything controversial here, because these people are lawyers. There were even different opinions. But this public debate was also attended by the President of the Republic, who openly supported a set of judicial laws, and this can be interpreted in two ways. First, that he symbolized the state and the citizens and that he therefore opened the rally or second, that political pressure is being put on this way, because he immediately defined himself in this debate, as the first speaker. Even if we put this aside, there are particularly unclear reasons for participating in this meeting of the Director of the Political Extraordinary Fund, otherwise, the former Director of the Open Society Fund. As far as it's known, and the biography of the director of this fund is publicly available on the Internet, she's not a lawyer, she's a sociologist who mastered socio-cultural anthropology at the Faculty of Philosophy. Why is someone who is not even a lawyer by definition more focused on a set of judicial laws than the entire Association of Judges of Serbia, and why should he, not the president of the Society, participate in this debate, which brings together about two-thirds of all judges in Serbia? It is not clear at all when these facts are observed from the perspective of legal science or from the jurisprudence profession. But if they're looked at from a political perspective, even from an ideological perspective, I mean this Brussels ideology, in that acute variant that this person is just personifying, then it's really a conclusion that it's a poorly-covered lustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8049	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted to the 44th amendment, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8050	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have submitted to my colleague, Petkovic, and I aim to tighten the conditions for selecting judges, in terms of the length of the internship that is necessary for someone to be elected judge of a particular rank. We believe that misdemeanors should be leveled with the judges of the basic court in terms of conditions for the election, since the new proposal, or possibly by law on violations, provides for a new, extended jurisdiction of the courts. In order for a judge to act in such matters, he will also need a certain knowledge of the profession. It is good that the conditions for the judges of the basic court have been tightened, in the sense that the border has been increased from two to three years so that someone can apply for the judge of the basic court, regardless of what I think the judicial assistants who work in the Belgrade judiciary and how they are trained and that after two years they compete for the judge of the basic court, given that the frequency of the trial in the Belgrade judiciary is much higher than in the courts in the interior. Of course, I'm making one observation here, and I have no intention of responding to any change in the text of this bill. I think it would be better if the conditions for senior court judges were also sharpened from six to eight years because, if we are talking about the necessary reform of the judicial system, then we should also talk about how to find a way to create a quality judicial chamber. On the other hand, I've said that before, I think the fact that a good judge can't be created overnight. He's been creating for years. I don't want to say that the basic condition for us to have a high-quality judge is how many years he's spent doing that job and that duty, but I think that years of internship should become a basic condition for us to start with in order to create a high-quality judge. Of course, whether someone will become a high - quality judge depends on many conditions, watching society as a whole in general. I think that the practice so far has shown that there is a basis for increasing this line and there is justification for raising this line. I believe that the condition for a senior court judge is so low that we can come to a real situation that, for example, a judge who has not been elected for six years as a judge of the municipal court can apply for a judge of the higher court and be elected. Then we'd be in a situation where that judge, who has no day of experience as a judge, can become, for example, a judge of a higher court. I'm saying this based on the experience that I have in the justice system, because I've seen colleagues who have been judge assistants for so long, even eight years. So this possibility exists, and it just doesn't need to be ignored. On the other hand, I have seen that the Government has not accepted this amendment, but I am of the opinion that perhaps we should consider and compare the comparative solutions that exist in the developed countries of the European Union in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8051	Thank you. According to the amendment, Mr Dragan Todorovic first appeared, and then you will get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must tell you in advance that I have responded to Mrs. Radovic and Mr. Petkovic's amendment. However, I think there are some things that are much more important than the current debate on amendments. I think that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs, regardless of whether they are MPs of the opposition or positions, should raise their voice against the ruthless robbery of individuals in this country. The data is so fragrant, that simply a man can't believe that it's possible through an institution to allow anyone to rob a state like this. Now I'm going to try to show you the data, see to what extent individuals are robbing this country. You, among other things, had a chance yesterday to hear everything about Bojan Krishte and the way G17 through its people is robbing the state. Today, among other things, you were able to read in a newspaper a statement from the President of the Republic asking for a shift and ask for money back. I'm asking who's responsible for this. Is Bojan Kristo responsible or the one whose name he's doing it on? How is it even possible to be in a coalition with such a party where individuals in their ranks are robbing the state in this way? You also had a statement in the paper: I give my head, but I don't give Krista. What is the reason why Mladjan Dinkic makes it clear to the citizens of Serbia and you in the DS that there is no possibility of Bojan Kristo resigning or changing? I will give you information that I think is so convincing that no citizen in Serbia will ask this question and that all MPs will demand that some things be cleared up. First of all, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question - is it possible in one official document in Serbia that one of the points of the contract says that the employee has the right to a nominal amount of 500 euros in dinar equivalent, or 100 euros, does not matter at all? How is it possible in this country that someone in a public enterprise is making a salary like this? Do we belong to the EU, or have you already jumped, or has your ass brought you to the EU, and then you're counting Euro wages? There's an official document here. I can't show it to you because of the names, because they took incredible security measures at the airport when it comes to the financials part. People are strictly controlled, signed up when they came in, when they came out, searched if they had any material, did they take it out, etc. All because the truth wouldn't go public. That's the problem. In this country, the problem is to hear the truth. Because the truth is so frightening, it won't take anything else, that the people will then start to solve things in a way that only has opportunities because it's obvious that the state and its institutions don't have opportunities. You remember what Bojan Kristo said, that he received a salary of 380,000 dinars. Such a report also came to the Administrative Committee. It's a fake. That's a lie. He must be responsible for the forgeries. I will read to you: printing of cards for the company "Nikola Tesla" - Director General, for January (and the salary is received in two parts) 203,000 and 13,000; for February 230.000 and 251,000 (that is more than 380,000); for the third month 161,000 and 319.000; for the fourth month 167,000 and 348.000; a total of 1,88,000 for five months. You share and you get the amount. But in the sixth month, there's a different way of paying off, in a way that you won't be able to figure out who's behind these cash amounts. Now look at the line you're going to. The payout code is 240, so let's say the man who receives 14,152 dinars stands his name and last name, and the man who receives the first part of 880,226 dinars has no name. Do you know who this encrypted is? Bojan Kristo. Bojan Kristo is behind this code. All those who receive such enormous amounts are encrypted: 184 thousand, 214 thousand, 200 thousand, 562,000, 581,708 – also code. They say there must be either Nestorovic or Jovicic behind this code. All of this can be checked. Commercial Bank (Jovanovic Violeta) - 519,041 dinar. But by the name and last name of the one who receives 16.391 dinar. Why is Mrs. Jovanovic Violet interesting? She is the director of marketing, and otherwise she graduated from the agricultural college – she is an expert in marketing, an expert. There's another interesting piece of information, she's Mr. Vitosevic's sister, and he's finished, so he took the loan, if you remember. Look at you, gentlemen of the Parliament and citizens of Serbia, what's going on in this country. The director of marketing, who graduated from agriculture college, has 1,032,000 salaries in a month. This is absolutely true. By the fifth month, by May, the banks received the name and last name and here it writes well - Pireus banka 547.767.57 dinara, the second part for the month of May - Simonović Ljiljana. These are the facts that speak of "Nikola Tesla" Airport. Watch out, Bank of Intect - pay, first piece: 416.229, 273,000... And those who receive 15-16 thousand go by their full name and name. To return to Jovanovic Violeta - a net payment for the current account of 1,490,579 dinars. Okay, guys, what kind of country do we live in? Not to read you all the data, but these most interesting ones - Bank Intez 1,114.196 dinars, Commercial Bank 1.225,265 dinars (that's in the tenth and ninth months since you asked what month it was), 606,385 (this previous amount, of a million and four hundred 1,029.000, that's in the tenth month). Here, that's the thing about salaries in a public company. How is that possible? The official messenger at Nicole Tesla Airport says they're determined to have 646 employees. There are 409 workers at the airport, but the mass of pay, as far as I'm aware, goes for 646. That's why these malfeasances are possible by Bojan Krist. You had a chance to hear only one piece yesterday about what's going on at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, it's a deal on the work concluded with Radosavljevic Velimir, professor of the university, the value of the contract is 378,000 for the job done. However, Mr. Radosavljevic had a salary of 135,000 and 184,000 for the same period, so he also received a salary at the Faculty of Engineering. There's no limit. Simply, there's no limit to robbery, and Dinkic says, "I give my head, but I don't give Krist. But don't you think that Bojan Kristo is the man who stops at all this. We need to get rid of this. Be careful, Bojan Krist's travels, all through an agency called Nemesis, says we are in charge of air transport costs at Belgrade-Madrid 268.326 dinars. So, what's Bojan Kristo traveling to, my people? (Zoran Krasic, from the place: On the donkey. On a donkey? No, unfortunately. That would be much smarter and cheaper for Serbian citizens. At least you'd see something on the way. We owe you, he says, for the costs of air transport at the Belgrade-London 132,000 route. Look, my people, how much the plane tickets cost. You travel all over Europe, you know how much they cost tickets to these destinations. Look what kind of man it is. He just doesn't have a brake. He doesn't run away from anything because he has powerful protection. I don't think it's just Mladjan Dinkic, but Boris Tadic, because Boris Tadic would insist on taking shifts, but he's obviously afraid of public enterprises where they're "yellow" in power because he'll probably bring out data, as was the case with "Laki's a little nervous". Be careful, the restructuring of "Nikola Tesla" airport was completed in 2005. However, Bojan, who has to take care of the interests of the state and the interests of "Nikola Tesla" Airport, concludes a contract with the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade in May 2008 to restructure the "Nikola Tesla" airport. The value of this contract is 219,600 euros. Well, dear colleagues, the SRS feel it's their duty and they have to do everything to stop this robbery right now. That's why we insist on the Ministry of Finance immediately sending a budget inspection to Nicole Tesla Airport. (President Gordana Komic): Fifteen minutes and thirty seconds. I'm sorry, I'm done. We're also asking the M.O.P. to send UPPOK immediately, so all the paperwork doesn't go away. Although, I've got enough for the first 40 years of prison, and we'll see about the rest. And we're looking for a cabinet session right now and Bojan Krisht's shift. Until we get that, the SRS MPs will start working on the Rules of Procedure, asking to stop crime in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8053	There's a word from the People's Parliament of the Witch of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 226 and I am asking for information and explanations from the current chairman of the National Assembly, namely the president of the National Assembly, concerning the information we received yesterday and today from Mr Todorovic with obvious evidence of an incredible robbery at Belgrade Airport. It seems Belgrade Airport is really interesting for those with sticky fingers. I also remind you of the crime of Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic from the government of Zoran Djindjic and Zoran Zivkovic. That's where it even started with some investigation, but it looks like it was -- it was shaking up, there was a mouse born. Now we can't really let that happen anymore. We are obliged to the citizens of Serbia, who are in a position to think about whether they will have bread for the family tomorrow, and government officials are scattered in the way they are thrown, you saw, Bojan Kristo. Verica Kalanovic, Ms. NIP minister and party friend Bojana Krišta, the first day these data were released, says -- he will surely return that money. Some public criticism has already come to his conscience and already has an impact on his conscience. Then Boris Tadic says he expects Bojan Kristo to resign. And we recall, when this government was elected, then Boris Tadic, completely outside the constitutional framework, said he would take care of ministers and government officials and that he would replace those who did not comply with his demands. Then the open and logical question is now -- whether Boris Tadic's request to rob and steal the airport, Serbian citizens, is employed at the airport. Only if you knew what bizarre things were going on at that airport. Ask the people who work there. No one gets close to the elevator when Bojan Kristo enters the building and goes into the elevator. There, at the secretary's, she's holding a ironing board in some corner, so she's got to iron his shirts, and she can't tell anyone, because of course she'd be fired for it. This isn't the secretary's information, it's from someone much higher and closer to Bojan Krisht. Three minutes are up. Mr. Todorovic, you have left out an urgent reaction from the public prosecutor, who must have listened and listened to our statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8055	I would like to ask the National Assembly for a stenogram of presentation of the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta and a stenogram of the presentation of MP Dragan Todorovic, and in the discussion of the details, to be delivered to the competent ministry and to the public prosecutor. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8056	Madam Vice President of the National Assembly, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm looking for a notice on whether, as far as tomorrow, the budgetary inspection will leave its premises. Or even today. Why is what Mr. Krasic said necessary today? That's what it takes today because the public is upset. Ladies and gentlemen, there are MPs from the ruling coalition, and among you there are people who are bitter about this behavior and this kind of procedure. The SRS MPs will neither conceal nor participate in anything, as we could thus help to extend the crime in our company, namely at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport in Belgrade. As a result, it is necessary to establish for 2006, 2007 and 2008 the number of receipts made by the Director of the Aerodrom and the number of receipts by the Director of Flight Control. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs, these men, appointed by Mr Dragan Todorovic, if they had travelled to Mars, would not have had such travel expenses. If they had traveled to Mars, believe me, it would have cost less this country. There's no way that a Yata director has a salary of 200 pensioners who have pensions between 10 and 12,000 dinars. Well, people, in which country is it? Today, the police need to get into that company, along with the budget inspection. We are informing the competent public prosecutor - as soon as he reaches the public prosecutor's voice that there are grounds for suspicion of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty, he is obliged to take immediate action under the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, so as not to cover up documentation and evidence, burn, transfer to another place, or be stolen and the next day registers as -- it's gone. Just like we've run out of MPs' resignations. That should be stopped right now. There's no delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8057	I ask the National Assembly's service that a stenogram of the MP's presentation with a request for an explanation be sent to those ministries. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on article 100, item 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of Article 226, I'm asking you for one piece of information. I suppose you'll pass it on to whoever needs it. I ask you for information - what else is it necessary for SRS MPs to indicate or do in this House to receive an adequate reaction from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to this frightening data? We've been listening for a month, permanently, to the story of this pay phone how someone ruthlessly robs and steals the state of Serbia and its citizens. The government's response to this has not yet been done. And, after such allegations and facts, someone on the left will come out and defend and promote European values in Serbia. Moral or I don't know what kind of values. It's irony and hypocrisy. What kind of state we live in, perhaps you can hide from the public in the country, but there is nothing you can hide from Europe. Even they recognize, see, and know very well what you do and what you do. If not, the European Commission's report would not be the way it is. They know this all, obviously, before we do, and more than we do and, which is devastating, more than the public of Serbia. Here, now we come to the conclusion that the provisions of the article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have full meaning. The public in Serbia would be denied all of this if there were not two members of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'll do one parallel with this. Maybe you'll be interested in this, Mrs. Comic, and you, since you're from Novi Sad, I assume. Watch the irony now. This is something you, Madam Minister, can listen to. (Snezana Malovic, from the place: I listen to everything. I should. On Saturday, November 22nd, and I come from a region known for its trumpets, one of the orchestras in the region was in Novi Sad, playing at a wedding. Now, look at this, between 2:00 and 2:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m., while the newlyweds were at the wedding, the police came, took the instruments away, brought them to the police, brought them to the judge for violations, by a certain Anita Ristic, who imposed a fine of 8,000 dinars to all the members of the orchestra for disturbing public order and peace. Now, these are European values that you promote on the left, and on the other hand Mr. Kristo will sleep, enjoy and garden in his billions. I thank and apologize for being overstepped.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8059	The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8060	I'm reporting from an article. 225th and 226th, and I ask for a notice from you and from the president of the National Assembly, when you will proceed with all these facts that Mr Dragan Todorovic brought here, primarily for the sake of Serbian citizens, to stand in the way, Mrs Comic, of the robbery. Simply, the MPs of the SRS can't allow something like this and be sure that they will be persistent in this. Mrs. Comic, it's more than obvious that you're conducting a total dictatorship. It's not just the reminders you've given to the MPs of the SRS, it's absolutely the least of the problems. But it is also obvious that Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said here on several occasions -- the parliamentary majority does not think so. We'll see if the parliamentary majority can get over this easily, see if they'll examine all of this and if our citizens get the right information. Now I'd like to make a note, when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture, because the SRS will not just stand on this issue. If you are going to solve this problem, we have a lot of arguments about many other things, or specific robberies in Serbia and the robberies of our citizens. We will go in order until, simply, this parliamentary majority, where first of all, the citizens' will is respected, until the government resigns, because Serbia simply can't go on like this. It's more than obvious that you tried to break the SRS, because it's the last defender of Serbia. We'll be persistent. And now I have one question for the Ministry of Agriculture, but I'm waiting for the Minister of Agriculture here to ask him a specific question. It's about privatising cooperatives in the Municipality of Odzac. Ratkov's cooperative was bought for 27 million dinars. At that point, a John Dir combination was worth 32 million. Two months ago, Ratkovo was sold to the company Zitar from Osijek for 13m euros. But that's just one part of the problem I'm going to bring out here today. In Odzac municipality, for the sake of the public, all the privatisations that have been made are thousands of fired workers, and hopefully, when the Minister of Agriculture arrives, I will get adequate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8061	I ask the service to stenogram the People's MP Dobrislav Prelic in the work of '... And now I have one specific question for the Minister of Agriculture... '" referred to the competent ministry. The answer to the first part of your presentation – neither the President of the Assembly nor the Chairman shall initiate any proceedings, nor shall they have jurisdiction to initiate the procedure. The word is by MP Milan Škrbic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8062	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by art. In 225 and 226, I request a notice of the following things that I will refer to, and this is about the abuse and conflict of local authorities, the judiciary, municipal courts and sales, precisely these topics which were recently set up by colleague Dobrislav Prelic, agricultural cooperatives that are not in the privatisation process. This topic, though verbally, I started on the Privatisation Committee, where I am a member, and I want to look for notifications, in particular, about the sale of most of the capital and property of the agricultural cooperative "Supplier" in Apatin, the Croatian owner who is the largest buyer of social capital in the municipality of Apatin, not through the tender, but through the following means or malversions. The Apatin Agricultural Co-operation is in very poor shape, but it has assets in terms of infrastructure facilities in the most attractive part of Apatin, in the main street. Since they are not in the privatisation process, someone has come up with one fantastic variant, to play the following – to sue three or four workers for unsettled commitments on various contributions to sue their own company to the Municipal Court, that the representative of the agricultural cooperative and the director do not come on a litigation call. The call went neatly four times to the representative of the cooperative and the director, who did not report and respond to the court, so that the judge in the agreement, since, I must say it openly, was set up by the SPS and who faithfully listens to local powers, determined that the cooperative would be sold for some 180,000 euros in minimum prices, in order to pay for the lawsuits of several workers. Of course, a customer from Croatia, who has a registered company in Bačka Palanca, has appeared and is the largest buyer of all facilities in the municipality of Apatin. I'm asking the authorities if it's true what I said (I'm saying it's true), so I can continue to use that information, and as my colleague from the DSS said yesterday (it seems to me that Donka Banovic, someone said it well yesterday), I'll know how to use those notes that I'll get from the authorities in writing. From this information on foreign customers in our territory, it is evident that it predominates the presence of capital from Croatia. Another announcement I ask the authorities - to see if anyone in the territory of the Republic of Serbia bought one square piece of land or some infrastructure facilities on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I'm saying it's nobody. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8063	Please submit the presentation of the MP to the competent Ministry of Agriculture. The Messenger of the people is Veseinović, and the Messenger of the people, Nikola Žutić, and the Messenger of the people Dusan Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8064	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have heard amazing figures, what is done in our Serbia. What is circulating, not only as a story, but also as published by the daily press, and what Mr. Dragan Todorovic said, data, figures, that at this time, when a farmer receives 7,000 dinars, salaries in the Public Enterprise Airport and some banks range from 500,000 to 1.500,000 – this is truly amazing. I ask, on the basis of Article 226, Mrs Comic, whether you will take measures and interrupt the work of this Parliament to convene competent committees that will examine this in more detail and ask the competent authorities and the inspections to respond immediately. I think this is a difficult blow for Serbian citizens, what they may not know or cover, probably even journalists do not have access, and the authorities are not doing their job. I am one of those who have been punished by this authority and the president of this Parliament, I belong to this opposition expedition of the penitentiary, and from this place I want to inform the public that this is not about the punishment for what I did and did, but only because I have publicly delivered my opinion from this speaker and I have spoken with a speech of freedom guaranteed by the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. The old father called me yesterday, heard in the media that I was being punished, so it's not clear to him - what did you do, you black son? - because he knows I've never been before the law or the court in my life, so I explained to my relatives and friends. And here these swear democracy, starting with the Red-Yellow Coalition, who in the '90s fought each other. There are victims behind them, advocating democracy. And I, my little one, who is more than once a National MP, eight times a committee of the City of Novi Pazar Assembly, am now the president of the New Pazar City Assembly, must bring from this assembly one CD and present to Mrs Djukić-Dejanović and Mrs Comic, to see that there is more democracy and democracy at the local level than there is in this House. That, unfortunately, has no one to talk to. They simply want to rule by force, they want to rule by repression, and they're in pain today and what we're talking about. And what the MPs of the SRS are saying today should interest all MPs, above all the MPs who make this power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8065	There is no reason for a break in the session of the Assembly to meet the committee of directors. The notice I am giving you is the business provisions on the work of the board and on the course of the session of the assembly. The committee may meet at the request of the President or a certain number of members of the board and have a theme presented by the MPs of the SRS at its session and related to the legality of the payout in the flock (i.e. "Aerodrom". National MP Nikola Žutic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8066	Dear MPs, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. This intrinsic Serbian government, pressured by the intrinsic indictment of the Republic of Croatia in genocide, was reminded of the basic Serbian national defences, i.e. the opposition against the Republic of Croatia. For years, we from the SRS have pointed out the need to press charges against the Republic of Croatia for genocide. If Serbia has not filed a lawsuit against Croatia in time for learning the truth about crimes against Serbs, it is still good that Croatia has filed a lawsuit against Serbia. That's why I am grateful to Croatia and I cry out: Danke, Croatia! True, the late lawsuit by Serbia lost its initiative, and it could already have been SRY in 1992 to sue Croatia for breaking the SFRY and crimes against Serbs during World War II and in 1991. As the government has already accepted an SRS initiative to sue Croatia, the indictment should be extended by launching a series of state-law issues to resolve the dispute with Croatia and set off in the bright future of good neighbourly relations. First of all, it should insist on launching a 1991-1995 peace conference on wars. The civil wars of the administrative units of the former SFRY, the so-called republics, have ended without peace agreements, a precedent in international law. The borders are withdrawn by the will of the Anglo-Americans and their European satellites. The borders were further withdrawn violently by the dictatorship of the United States and Britain, which created Croatia in 1939 and with Josip Broz created the borders of the administrative republics, creating a great Croatia. Broz's federalization of Yugoslavia was a fuse for the outbreak of future war explosions. In fact, Serbs, as the most numerous people, were placed in republican towers divided by artificial borders, and this has already been caused by the dissatisfaction of many Serbian intellectuals and peoples in 1945. Artistic states and nations have been created such as have not existed in history, except for Slovenians. Finally, as time runs out, I ask the foreign minister and also here the present chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs – is he planning to launch a question of calling a peace conference on the territory of the former SFRY, which would resolve all state-law disputes, and particularly the issue of violently established borders between the former administrative units of the SFRY? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8067	I ask that the presentation be sent to the competent ministry, which the MP quoted, and I ask that it be corrected in the stenogram, with the gratitude of the MP Verica Radeti – it is not the Yath, but the Airport. I told Omak it was about paying off the profits from the Public Enterprise Jat. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on the basis of an article. 100 St. 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8068	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Article 226, I will talk about a problem that best shows the government's attitude towards citizens and their underlying problems. A month ago, I asked the departments to explain the problem of water supply in the Great Plan. It's been a month since, and I haven't received any answers yet, so I'm going to take this opportunity for the authorities and the public in Serbia to get to know this problem again. For five years now in the Municipality of the Great Plan, it's 50,000 inhabitants, they don't have drinking water. The water in the City Waterway, according to experts, is estimated to be too much nitrate, not only is it not healthy for drinking, but it is not useful for washing dishes and swimming. The town of Velika Plana, which has 20,000 inhabitants, provides water with a tank capacity of 5,000 liters of 35 years old. You assume yourself that because of age, he is no longer in use than he is in use. Citizens of the Great Plan have three options. One possibility is they're waiting for this phantom tanker at the checkpoints in town, whether it's coming or not. Due to age and overload, it usually happens that it takes three or four days to appear in one part of the city. Another option is to buy water for drinks. Assuming that one average family spends only two balloons a day, ten liters, drinking water, buying water, and that family needs 150 dinars a day, minimum. At the monthly level, it's 4,500 dinars. It's an unsustainable expense for most households in the Great Plan. The vast majority of people there don't work, there's no employment, and those who work around have monthly benefits, salaries, between 10,000 and 12,000 dinars. They should separate a third of their monthly income for water purchase. The third option, used by the largest number of Mountains, is to drink toxic water. The consequences are extremely devastating. There has been a rapid increase in the disease of the organ, the nerve disease and, in particular, kidney disease. According to these diseases, the Great Plan is among the first municipalities in Serbia. There's only one solution to this problem, I've already talked about it twice, and that's building a water treatment plant. To build the plant, it is necessary to allocate up to 5m euros from the budget. Some may consider it a large sum, however, I believe that for the health of 50,000 inhabitants of a municipality of fivem euros is a very small sum. That is why I ask for another explanation from the Serbian government, the competent ministries think they are taking action to address this urgent problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8069	I ask the service to direct the presentation of MP Dusan Maric to the Secretary-General of the Government. He has a word and wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladan Jeremic, and he gets his word on Article 100(1). The Secretary of the National Assembly has drawn up a list of how you have so far reported any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. So, MP Vladan Jeremic now has a word, so Natasa Jovanovic, MP of the people, Zoran Krasic, MP of the people, Tomislav Ljubenović, MP of the people, Milorad Buha, MP Mirko Munjic, MP of the people, Lidija Dimitrijevic, MP of the people, Nikola Savic, MP of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am using my right to do so. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia inform the public and also ask for an answer, not only but also a response from the authorities to another obvious example of the urban and construction mafia in the very centre of the capital, Belgrade. Namely, on the site of a former park in the hinterland of the Pedagogical Museum, the land is prepared for construction of a residential and business building, which according to the project should have 7,000 squares above the ground and 3,000 squares underground, with Turkish bathrooms, swimming pools, saunas, fitness halls, wine cellars, garages and others, which is really for the section 'believe it or not'. The investor banking group Hipo Alpe Adria Consultants does not regret money for this luxury building with all these catacombs to single out a figure of amazing 15m euros. The apartments in this facility have been booked and sold to citizens of America, Australia and South Africa, and the price of a square meter has moved over 4,000 euros. In order to know what this is about, the competent city authorities gave the investor a building permit although the planned building literally leans on the museum and closes the windows of the building on the corner of Cara Urosa and Zincar Janka, while the tenants on the street of Cara Urosa protects the very view of Kalemegdan. By the way, the site in question is under previous protection within the context of the spatial-cultural and historical continent "The Old Core of Belgrade". Serbia's Academy of Architecture adopted a Declaration for a Better and Quality Life of Citizens, which, among other things, states that these current construction ventures are evident examples of violations of the ambience, cultural and architectural values because they are the result of someone's irresponsibility, intricacy and, apparently, of abuse of authority. Over three hundred tenants of buildings in the streets of Tadeauša Kostuška, Cincar Janka, Uzun Mirkova and Emperor Uroš have, unfortunately without success, addressed all the competent and unauthorized authorities of both city and republican administrations, starting with the Ministry of Capital Investments, the National Office of the President of the Republic, the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the Secretariat for Urbanism and Construction Affairs, the Chief Architects, etc. The Ministry of Capital Investment, on the basis of a record of the inspection carried out in a copy of the urban plan for all parcels at the site in question, ordered the Belgrade City Department for Urban and Construction Affairs to review the issue of a copy of the urban plan and the construction of a residential and business facility and inform the city's inspection accordingly. As the city services respect and carry out the orders of the republican authorities, you can conclude for yourself. So, a city that has been destroyed in its history and destroyed countless times by the most diverse enemies, for the last few years, has been destroying the urban and construction mafia. How do you fool the citizens and honor the legal procedure? The recipe is next - if you notice someone's bigger yard, smaller park or green area, then make a urban plan... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Let me finish my sentence. ), present it on the municipal or city board and wait for the law to pass the time foreseen for public insight. When no one sees all this, you take the act off the public seat and get it all wrong. I have delivered to you, Madam Chairman, the complete documentation in which I spoke about this case and I hope you will respond, given that I have requested not only an answer, but also a concrete reaction from the authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8071	I ask the National Assembly's service to instruct the competent ministry to present the MP, and I ask the MPs to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that it is time for MPs who want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure for three minutes. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8072	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. Rules of Procedures 225 and 226. I have a question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance, and regarding this robbery of the century by Bojan Krist and the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and the fact that over 80% of Serbian citizens, perhaps 90%, have never set foot in Belgrade's airport, because people have no possibility of travelling anywhere, many of them even coming by bus to Belgrade, but they must know, and that is the only thing that Mr Krasic says, from the assembly phone, through the Second RTS programme, which is being developed in the country and how many Serbian citizens are robbing, the individuals take for themselves. In that, of course, those who are members of DS and G17 plus, like Bojan Krishte, are ahead of them. Between him, Dinkic and Jelasic are running a dead race, but for now he is ahead of these two and people need to know that he is one of the leading criminals. My particular question is – since the documents of "Nikola Tesla" last year indicated that "Nikola Tesla" in the Republic of Serbia's budget had been paid as a donation to the budget of the Republic of Serbia 19.0111.721.63 dinar, did Mrs Diana Dragutinovic establish in which budget split this donation went to if it was even paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Secondly, I'm interested, given that we're asking for an emergency session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the UBPOK is going to Nicole Tesla Airport and that this criminal Bojan Kristo be brought to justice... Mrs. Radeta, herself, who is from that neighborhood, wondered that there was such a criminal from the Lithuanian region. We know the Ustashas and the slaughterers are being witnessed there, but a criminal like this can't be surprised for days. Since we have information that Kristo, in addition to these salaries he receives and representations, is driving in a car brand "aud" with, to say car lovers - 'auto is in the full', and a contract with the company "Porse", with a lease of 3,471 Swiss francs, or 41,662 Swiss francs per year - and you know why? - that it would not be established that Kristo bought a car like that for himself, but, behold, "Nikola Tesla" Airport has a lease, and he drives well from the moon to the moon... Probably also that the amount of rents from year to year is growing, because as they change and retrieval the "audia", he wants a newer model, then it costs more and so it goes in order. Take all these questions seriously. It's been three minutes, I apologize, and I just wanted to go after these severances and individual admissions of board members and Nicole Tesla Airport and the other 28 public enterprises in Serbia, where such a robbery is done, and to remind citizens that they also have special representation cards, which go from 100,000 to millions of dinars. They probably eat roast giraffes for that kind of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8073	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I ask the service to refer Natasa Jovanovic to the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8074	Mrs. Comic, I'll call Article 104, but I'd like to inform you in time that you don't need to worry. The breach of Article 104 does not apply to you. What's this about? Since every day more and more citizens of the Republic of Serbia see the Second Channel and the direct transmission of the National Assembly sessions, because they are able to find out what is going on in Serbia, I believe that if we hold to the dignity of the National Assembly, and in this way also to the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given the obvious things and the fact that Mr Todorovic, so also Batic, if he interprets that I have now called him, but these other MPs here also provide a number of information on what kind of crime is being done... So it's all at some stage of doubt now, but when Mr. Todorovic comes out and says, "Please, official data, come from that place, etc." - because that's the data, I suppose, of the Administrative Committee, when it was cleared up, about that hack that like some people they spend a lot, and they're very nice and nice sitting in some silence and nobody sees them. And now we've got one count of Monte Krist in the 'ladina G17 plus. In addition to the fact that they maintain a pro-European government at some rate, they demonstrate pro-European values at every turn. Bojan Kristo – it is the image of European standards. And when he was in the insurance company, and when he was in that playroom, and now, as director of the airport. You know we're out of luck with those airports. You know that eschew, then a tablespoon of a thousand, then a few thousand ficus, etc. I get the impression that the airport was built in the wrong place, that there are water streams, some ruins, and they just go crazy when they go there, they can't control themselves. They probably don't have a hard job because it's more or less organized for those 20 flights at the airport, and then all they have left is to track the state of the giro-account on the computer, so, if necessary, to help the state. Well, it's not so small, so there's a question of where the landing and take-off fees are, etc. If we want to preserve the dignity of the citizens, if you want to be in the way of what your president said, which is -- tighten the belts -- please let us see, we need to resolve this question. That part, Mr. Todorovic, that you were talking about, that UBPOK would do something, I'm afraid, to tell you honestly, because there are other young people out there, those who listen to conversations, his friends, his friends... I know, because I sued him and I had to defend myself. To defend myself against him, I had to get good information. I was very well equipped with the data and spread across the table, showing Batić, it's about 2,000 pages in one copy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8075	You speak for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8076	I'm running away right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8077	There is no violation of Article 104 by any speaker who used his right to speak, and if, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there had been injuries to members 104 or to any other member, speaker or speaker, they would have been warned and the measure would have been imposed. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). After him is the word of the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. People's MPs warn that MP Vladan Batic has sought a replica. As long as there are people who want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the MP who seeks the right to replica has to wait. No matter what the MPs want to meet each other, I can only meet with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a picture and opportunity of today's Serbia. Based on all this data on the criminal affair that was happening at Nicole Tesla Airport, I think that all the judicial authorities should function and react to all the information that has been made available for this speaker, and the judicial authorities, and the Government and, quite normally, the President of the Assembly, because where we could be more able to bring out this much criminal data so that the rule of law would start to function and, in the end, begin to represent the interests of citizens. I think this is, after all, really one absurd thing, where the citizens of Serbia will finally see for themselves how and how the "yellow company" works right now. In addition, I'm going to take one piece of information from where I come from, just on this basis, how much corruption and crime are represented in the wood industry, specifically in this case "Health", the pearl of the wood industry and the giants that should have been used for the development of the Jablani County. It was sold for 3.5m euros, with the company's value being 107m euros. Only one bidder participated in the tender. I ask the Minister of Justice to examine the entire case of the privatisation of "Health", in which way and how it is privatized for such a minimal, miserable sum of money. Let me get this information out. After all, there is also a buyer that a top-notch company with high-tech technology modernizes, improves and that the number of employees in the company is far greater. The company had 2,075 workers during privatisation, today there are around 856 workers, and already three or four days ago we received information that 194 more workers should be fired. On what basis and how? The fact is that the privatisation that was applied in Leskovac, in the impasse area, is catastrophic, that there are no companies that are privatized that work. In addition to this company "Zravlje", you can freely examine when it comes to "Moorka", when it comes to "Tokos", when it comes to "Rul" and all other companies where this situation is present in terms of crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8079	National MP, you have not specified which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, nor have you affected the address of the justice minister in your address, as the minister of justice does not investigate privatisation. I ask the People's MPs, if we have a silent agreement to use the article. The 225th and 226th use and abuse, so much respect and agreement and all of us that, by the rules of the Rules of Procedure, we use our three minutes, so that you don't put me in a position to violate the Rules of Procedure and leave me no room other than to give me a warning measure. The People's MP Milorad Buha wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I request a notice from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the Public Prosecutor's Office on the actions taken by these authorities in terms of the detection of crime and the illegal use of state resources. It's about the obvious crime. For a year now, the SRS has indicated enormously high remuneration payments to the presidents and members of the boards of directors, directors of public enterprises, management staff in public and other enterprises, and I ask for information on what the competent state authorities have taken. In this case, we are talking about "Nikola Tesla" Airport in Belgrade. However, we have other public enterprises. The same or similar situation is in other public enterprises. This country has made monopolies out of these public enterprises, has placed its people in these public enterprises and cannot and cannot do anything to them in terms of control and real-estate determination. The state authorities must not go to public enterprises, because if they were allowed to leave, they would take what the law requires them to do, what they had to and didn't do. For a year and a half, we've been talking about one-off payments, fees, profits in these public enterprises, and none of the state authorities have taken any action. After a wave of our statements here on height, the government made a decision a month ago to limit compensation for the presidents and members of the boards of directors and supervisors. The moment it was meant to be done with profit levels, and especially management staff in public enterprises, that's where it cares. Why? They've got you in your pocket, your party party frames you put in there. You can't go in there. State resources are at stake and state authorities must do what they are set up to do. That is why I insist and demand that the inspection bodies of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Interior go out to every public enterprise, establish the state and establish all illegalities, all the crime that is happening in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8081	I ask the service to refer the presentation of the MP to the competent and quoted ministries. The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8082	Article 226. Ladies and gentlemen, wherever the Serbian government appears, or someone close to the Serbian government, and especially wherever those from G17 plus, there's malfeasance, there's a possibility of crime. These questions, which I will refer to, refer to the social enterprise "Cer" Cačak and about two thousand employees, former and present, of this company. To remind you, it is a social enterprise that has produced process equipment for industry and agriculture in its own time. We remember all the droughts for agricultural production produced by this company, also known in the old Yugoslavia. The government brings in two programmes for this company, one is a socio-economic programme, and the other is a rehabilitation programme. For control, the government is introducing temporary measures into this company and setting up a new governance body. So, the Serbian government directly intervened, imposed temporary measures and set up its governing body to resuscitate the company. Let me just remind you that the company's debt before the imposition of provisional measures was 12,420,000 dinars, so somewhere around 430 German marks at the time. And what happened after the government put in place temporary measures? I'll put it in short, and then I'll ask a question for the government later. Since then, it has been deliberately blocking the company's gyro-account. All payment traffic is transferred to a phantom company called Cer Comerz. In just a year's time, this phantom company, Cer Komertz, is paying close to 100 million dinars to its new jury account. Today's debt of that "Cer" is 40 times higher. So, ever since the government imposed provisional measures, 40 times the debt that the company had before the imposition of provisional measures. The question for the General Secretariat of the Government is – does the Serbian Government have any insight into how the $114 million recovery funds were spent, which the government transferred? Furthermore, that the Government gave a precise answer – what was the financial situation of the factory prior to the introduction of provisional measures, and what is it like today, November 20? What gyro-account was the government paying off funds to resuscitate the company, whether at the expense of the parent company or at the expense of that phantom company, Cer commercial? Is doing business through this "Cer comedian" for the government a credential fraud and is it a crime? The next question is – is it true that no contract in this company was realised in 2008 and that this was triggered by the ban on the Privatisation Agency? At the end of the question – what has been done with the 17 million dinars that have been set up for the plant's branch programme and what account have these funds been paid to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8083	I ask the National Assembly to refer a stenogram of the presentation of the MP to the quoted authorities and organizations. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After her, MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, per article. 225 and 226. I am using my right of MP to request a notice to perform my parliamentary function. I need a notice from the departments in charge - will the public prosecutor react in this situation, related to the unconscious spending of funds at "Nikola Tesla" airport? This kind of spending money isn't just unconscious, it's a crime scene. We have heard today and in previous days from the MPs of the SRS to whom the sums are and to which the money is spent. No executive should be protected, no matter what political group he belonged to. Tax taxpayers' money must not be spent the way it was spent in this case. It's money paid to the state by those most of whom are not in a position to buy basic life supplies, those who lose their jobs daily and are left to themselves. That is why SRS MPs believe that the D.A., the D.A., the budgetary inspection and all other competent authorities must start doing their job, starting today at the Belgrade Airport. We are here, in this most legislative body chosen to participate in the adoption of laws, but also to protect the interests of citizens, those who regularly settle their obligations in the form of taxes to the state. They do not pay citizens taxes to spend their tax money the way it is spent at the Belgrade Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8085	I ask the National Assembly to refer the presentation to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on article 100. After him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, based on an article. 225 and 226. I demand a reply from the Ministry of Finance – what will they do about the enormously high salaries of the Public Enterprise of "Nikola Tesla", Belgrade? We heard from Mr. Todorovic that at the height of his salary the director of this company Bojan Kristo, and we heard from counterpart Zoran Krasic that he had already earned and won the title of Count - Count Monte Kristo. Although, I believe he deserves a title even greater than the Count. I think he deserves the title of king, the king of kerosene, because you know planes use kerosene when they fly. The salaries of leading personnel in this public enterprise in relation to the salaries of ordinary people are equal to the altitude at which their planes fly, which is somewhere between nine and ten thousand meters. These high-flyers seem to have run out of oxygen at these high altitudes. They lost the compass, and that's why they prescribed themselves such high wages. My people, their salaries are bigger than the real high-flyers, who know the whole world, and they're world recordrs jumping with a pole, Sergei Bubka and Jelena Ishinbaev, who know how many times they've broken world records. I ask the Serbian government to send financial inspection to examine the business of the public enterprise and to send to the Office for Combating Organized Crime to investigate what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8087	I ask the service to present the MP with a request for notification to the Ministry of Finance. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the word has been given to the People's MP, Free Maras. As MPs intervene in doubting the order of announcements, I have already read the order of MPs who apply because they want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. These are MPs Petar Jojic, Slobodan Maras, Marina Ragus, Sulejman Spaho, Milorad Krstin, Radiša Ilic, Marko Milenković, Vladan Batić, Zoran Krasic, Dragan Stevanović, Sreto Perić, Ljubisa Petković, Vitomir Plužarević, Milan Nikolic, Dragan Todorovic, Vjerica Radeta and Ljubomir Kragović. Do you want me to read the list in order to log in again? National MP Petar Jojic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8088	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In accordance with Article 7(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 104 and in After everything that was heard yesterday and today after this pay phone in this high house, which has been notified to all our citizens, I ask for a notice – will the Minister in charge of Belgrade Airport come before the MPs and report whether his ministry has taken any action under the applicable legal rules or not? My proposal is to request a notice from the Secretary-General – will he come to the National Assembly and report today, but without delay? Find him, at least put out an APB on him, because this question is extremely significant. I believe that neither you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, agree that one director of the airport in Belgrade has 15 or 20 salaries of the MPs or 400 pensions of our pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President, I ask the President of the Republic and Prime Minister – will Serbia include with its countersuit against the Republic of Croatia a genocide from the Second Holy War, in which about 700,000 Serbs were killed, and will it include the charges and crimes committed in the area of Medak pocket, Gospić, Pakraska Poljana, in the camp "Lora" in Split? I ask you to give us that answer that, given the importance this suit should have, and it will be greatly strengthened with this evidence and essential facts for the conduct of this case before the International Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8089	As for the first part of the request for notification, the MP, in order for the minister to be at a session where the agenda is not directly proposed, the government must inform the National Assembly that she has entrusted both the minister and the minister to be there, but the committee responsible may be convened today and the minister must be present to the committee. For the second part of the question, please refer to the quoted authority and the organisation listed by the MP in the presentation. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). After that, the National MP Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8090	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I've called in three members per article. 225th and 226th because I'd like to ask some questions, but also a half. 104, because I believe the dignity of the congregation has been violated. Now I'll tell you why. The dignity of the congregation can be marred by words, actions, or inaction. I think the dignity of the assembly is violated by inaction. Yesterday, Mr. Todorovic launched one topic, and he presented data that really supported all of us sitting in the Assembly. Then I asked you, or then the chairman, the president of Mrs Dejanovic's Assembly, to react in some way, as did Mrs Nada Kolundzija. Either Mr. Todorovic is telling the truth or he's right. If he's right, there's got to be something going on. So we have to initiate from here, as it was just done, to do something about UPPOK, to do something budgetary inspection and so on. Today we had a chance to hear from Mr. Todorovic that he had documents, and the documents showed, documents that talk about incredible abuses and, we can say freely, about crime. Again comes silence and inaction by the ruling coalition. I know it's a sensitive subject, but what can we do? Not only do UBPOK come out and budget inspection, we have to look, all MPs from here -- people, we need to get reports on the final accounts of every public enterprise. It's the key to the biggest corruption in this country. That they seduce under some number of men who receive a salary of 1,600,000 dinars and make it a secret? Well, who's the secret and what do they do at that airport when they have that kind of pay? That's totally amazing. I know you're in touch with the citizens and you're all getting information that the citizens are scared, disappointed, that they don't know what's coming next year. Then, when they hear this data, they expect a reaction. The reaction is not to let you, Madam Chairman, speak three and passed, and four minutes, and think that someone will self-destruct. Well, he won't. We fully support Mr. Todorovic's initiative, which said we expect the government to react. But not by just replacing Mr. Krisht, but by determining the responsibility of who allowed him to listen to this data for a year. Many MPs from different parties have provided this information. Not a single word has been heard except that his shift will be sought and his money returned. How do you get the money back? What we heard earlier, donations, let's just tell me how he can get that money back on the bill and keep it in line with the law. It can't be done. He can borrow, so the airport owes him again. Please, Mrs. Kolundjia, as a person who, in my opinion, can affect the most here, to perform a reaction, to hear from the government. So this is what people are looking at and we need to get a government reaction to what they're going to do about it? Not only does Mr. Kristo change and return that money to Serbia's budget (but I don't know which way) but the final accounts of all public enterprises are being put into account. We need to see how the citizens of this country are robbed in a situation where each of us, each of those outside... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... I apologize, just one more sentence, so each of the citizens feels a great fear of the time coming, which is ahead of us, because of the financial crisis. Please come out here and tell us something, for the simple reason that we could continue to work on the amendments, so that we could continue to work on all the laws that come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8091	There is no violation of Article 104, since the National Assembly does all the work under its jurisdiction and the MPs of the opposition use their rights prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and that is what the National Assembly can do during the session. On your initiative, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija asked for a word, but I cannot give her my word because there are previously reported MPs who want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, the word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8092	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the basis of Rules of Procedure 225 and 226. Honestly, right now I'd like to hear Mrs. Hope Kolundji because I'm guessing she really has the most qualified information here in terms of what the ruling coalition is doing in curbing organised crime, because we're actually talking about organized crime here all the time. What is inadmissible is that, in fact, opposition MPs are raising questions about the legality of the business of public enterprises. We are all witnesses of election campaigns, especially now the vast ruling majority, who said they would advocate eradicating crime and fighting organised crime. In this sense, this means that crime and criminal activities reach the highest peaks of the state, which will say that, by doing so, the highest party officials making up the coalition majority should be held accountable. What the people of Serbia should know now is this. In the state of Serbia, we do not have the tangible and proven arrogant behaviour of the ruling majority and authorities, in fact, in Serbia, we no longer have any compassion, absolute solidarity, no sense of justice, no sense of what should be the basis for the functioning of the political system, the functioning of the rule of law. In the state of Serbia, there is no man who does not know what salaries are in public enterprises. In the state of Serbia, there is also no person who does not know how much it costs to function in public enterprises, how much money is given on black to get a job in public enterprises. In the state of Serbia, too, there is no person who does not know how to organise businesses through public enterprises, as there are some percentages, and how political parties are financed. So it's a common fact. The SRS is currently seeking to determine the direct criminal responsibility of all those in competent institutions who have certain knowledge, doing nothing or under the influence of the political mafia. Also, the SRS is currently looking for, right now, the final account of all public enterprises, and we know that BIA has data on the business and legality of the business of Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla". We are looking for, at the same time, of course, the involvement of prosecutors, Mr. Krisht's shift, but before that, the launch of the procedure for determining the legality of the business of Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla". I apologize for these 25 seconds and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8093	I would like to inform the MPs that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have agreed to apply for the word of the MPs who wish to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that there is a tacit agreement that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have priority over the other MPs. So instead of MP Sulejman Spah, who would now be next, the word will be by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Velimir Ilic and Nada Kolundzija, MPs' president, and Vladan Batic. The word has a People's MP Vladan Batic, so in turn - MPs of the parliamentary groups Dragan Todorovic, Velimir Ilic and Nada Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8094	Ladies and gentlemen, Bojan Kristo is a paradigm of what should not happen in Serbia today. No one here is personally interested in Bojan Kristo. But if everyone's mouth is full of stories about the rule of law, about the rule of law, about fighting corruption, crime, nepotism, hypocrisis, then it's not normal for us to have this kind of thing happening. Today is exactly the month I asked the government, not Mladjan Dinkic, to replace Bojan Kristo. A month ago, find the stenographic notes. I wish it was done. And maybe it's better that it's not, 'cause I think now it's more than just a shift. Also, I propose for the future time that all public enterprises report to the government at the end of each year to Parliament, because people's money should be considered by elected representatives of the people of Serbia, and these are MPs, and we should introduce the possibility that the directors of public enterprises should sit here and defend their reports once a year, so that we can see if they would steal. One more thing. I propose that not only budget inspection be included in this action, and not only UBPOK, but also the State Audit Institution. I would also suggest not to include the work and work of Bojan Krishti only at Belgrade Airport, but also in the Serbia lottery, because he is used to, apparently. So, for the third time I mention from this pay phone, let's see -- what is Alex Company, owned by Bojan Krist's wedding godfather, worked for Serbia's lottery for 250,000 euros? Was there a tender, who paid the 250,000 euros for the needs of the lottery? Let's see if the company performed 1m-euro works for the adaptation of the Hotel "Yugoslavia", for "Grand Casino", to which the license, or to its owner Martin Schlaf, was given by Bojan Kristo. Let's see if and how the company performs most of the construction work at Belgrade Airport. I welcome Serbian President Boris Tadic's statement, but it turns out Kristo is stronger than Serbia's president. Watch out for immorality and hypocrisis, Dinkic says, "I won't replace him, he's a good manager." It turns out that Belgrade Airport is the private company of Mladjan Dinkic, in which Bojan Kristo can do whatever he wants. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done, I'm sorry. Well, two journalists in the Watergate affair have replaced Richard Nixon, president of the United States. There's no G17 plus MP here. Why do they tolerate it? Or are they accomplices? Like the Alibaba story and 40 heiduks. Then Kristo picks up and says he'll keep 10%, and 90% will return to humanitarian purposes. (President: Four minutes. That's the height of the insolence, Kristo-humanite. How long did that go? Here's the President of the Management Board's decision. For that car that rented three and a half thousand euros a month, he liked it, so he also used it for private purposes. Here, he's approved by the chairman of the board of directors. This is a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8095	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't doubt at all that there is no data for the early works of Bojan Krisht. Everything is known from the first moment Bojan Kristo set out to develop his unsuspecting capabilities and abilities to the limits that he best pointed out at the "Nikola Tesla" airport. Here, I'll just show you some things, says Bojan Kristo, at the time the general director of the "State Lotions of Serbia", since 23.9.4. worked at the Danube Insurance, as an adviser, under the contract of action. Who do you think hired him? Oliver Labus. He was the chairman of the Galenike Management Board. Look, individual arrival on the Management Board charged 100,000 dinars. He was expelled from Galenika because he made a phone bill of about half a million dinars in one month, and when he left, he took away, and a laptop that he owed to the regents. I really can't figure out that this data is funny to someone. I really can't understand that. Do you see what kind of man it is, what kind of stranger it is, my people? What is interesting, in 23.9.2004, Bojan Kristo brought a work book without a single day of work. Look, people, what's happening to us and who's destroying our country. We can't stop at this. We won't stop until this case is resolved. If the employees of Nicole Tesla Airport could, at the cost of their existence, bring in this data, we have no right to leave them at large. We've got to fight it, it's got to be removed, it's got to be a budget inspection, it's got to get UBPOK in. We don't want any stories. We want the state to do its job. I have information that 16 airmen will be on strike tomorrow. Do you want them here in front of the Assembly? You solve this problem. I also invite all employees in public enterprises. There's no other way to deal with this monster, bring in the data, block the Assembly until things are out of order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8097	The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad that one activity has taken place today, that a great evil from a public enterprise should be put away. We've been listening here for days, and we expect the authorities to take action, otherwise we'll consider them accomplices in this business. I'd like to mention one thing. If you asked what Bojan Kristo did in the lottery, there'd be trouble. Please allow Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic to come forward for this and take part in the responsibility. That's his tub. The previous frame at the airport, Nedeljkovic, was removed, but transferred to Ski resorts, where the situation is the same as the one we're talking about, and worse. There's chaos in ski resorts. That's where we need to go in and see what's been going on. I want one more thing. I asked the government several times, as minister, but the government was blackmailed with Minister Dinkic and was not allowed to react. Airport management sold four hectares of the airport's country to flight control for four million euros and bought everyone per apartment and everyone per jeep for it. There are papers. I'm asking the airmen to bring in the paperwork. Airport fees haven't been booked for months. The lawyers came to me, begged and begged, put everything in the bank. We did everything, but when you mentioned the airport, it was: no one can. The board of directors couldn't give any information. There was a classic dictatorship there. A Kalican, who is also prone to another job, and everyone else who's been there... So I'm asking you to start clearing up and not protect anyone. No director can protect anyone until this situation is cleared up. The Management Boards and the Chairs of the Management Boards shall also be responsible. I once discussed in the government and brought papers that two then directors, the director of the airport and the director of Flight Control, who had paid 13,000 euros, had been paid as a whole by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's 100% correct and can be checked. But UBPOK was completely under Dinkic's control and he didn't come there. The saviour was not allowed to go there because they were godfathers and party comrades. So that's what brought us here. Let's not cover ourselves with an economic crisis. Let's clear up the situation in our backyard and reduce the economic crisis. Don't talk - the global crisis. This kind of thing is a crisis. (President: three minutes, 30 seconds. I don't want to talk about a contract that the airport executives wanted to make with an American, for God's sake, the company, and behind that company, when they came to sign the contract, you know who it was? Goran Novakovic, former Minister of Energy. Mr. Polt, do you want to bring this criminal here? He says he's our company. Well, it's not yours, he's Goran Novakovic. I, as minister, refused to sign that contract on the Kargo Center at the airport. Why? Because the contract had all the false data. (President: Four minutes. I asked Polt not to intervene for thieving anymore. He was, of course, reacting. And do you know who was protecting him? Mr. Labus, who sent him to me, says we have a vice president's order that you have to sign it. No! No! Please get this all the way out. The NS MPs fully support this. Bojan Kristo, to see what was in the lottery, to see who received one of the prizes, whose close relative was one of the ministers. There's a lot to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8099	The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8100	The Honorable Presidency, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the ZES parliamentary group considers the launch of these issues to be one of Parliament's most important roles. I believe that the control role of Parliament is what is important not only to develop, but to support each time Parliament is appointed as an institution to control, first of all, budgetary spending and those who are budgetary users. In this regard, we support any initiative that raises issues related to how budgets are spent, as well as possible abuses. We support and support that all competent institutions, in accordance with their legal powers (the only thing I think Parliament is not the one who should determine facts etc.) They take all the necessary steps, establish the full truth about it, and take the steps that the law tells them on the basis of the facts. You have our full support. If you consider it necessary to organise an emergency session of the board of directors, which we would like to call the minister, we are prepared to do so. A message was sent to the government. Be assured that the inherited matters relating to the public sector, which apparently bear in themselves countless problems with which, according to the former minister, they should not be taken into account, that this government will deal with these phenomena and will resolve them in accordance with the law. So, once again, I assure you, you have the full support of the parliamentary majority, you have the full support of the ZES parliamentary group for every issue concerning the consumption of social resources and for every issue that needs to eliminate the possibility of abuse or even, if they are determined, to endure to the end. We're not for media spectacular actions. We are for corruption to be rooted out in this society and therefore you will always have our support. At the same time, I'm asking you to keep working on the laws. What we now have on the agenda is one way to fight these phenomena more successfully. So to properly edit the judiciary so that we can go through a normal system, a judicial system, to fight these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8101	The word comes from MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is the only way to get this evil and this monster in the way, to get everyone to answer - who in any way has abused his position. We have no reason, nor will we protect anyone. But to be clear, this is the role of Parliament and we insist on it. You can take a break now, take a break this close, to set a break of an hour. It wasn't rare or, at least, we were also informed about government meetings on the telephone about much, much more important decisions they made, not to remind you. Therefore, let the chairman or president of the Assembly inform Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic on the phone hold the session with one single item of the agenda, which is the demands of the Serbian Parliament who supported all the parliamentary groups, let Mr Cvetkovic tell us what the government has decided on this issue and we will continue to work as we have done until we have provided this information.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8103	The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The presidents of the parliamentary groups have made an agreement to receive the word regardless of the reported, MP Vladan Batic is involved in the deal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8104	Just something to remind you, ladies and gentlemen. At the time of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government, these things could not have happened. Because of much more small things, one, today unfortunately the late, vice president of the government, has been replaced. When there was doubt, Zoran Djindjic demanded that Goran Novakovic leave the post of Energy Minister Momcilo Perisic as well. That's when things like this couldn't happen. Later, Dragan Vesenov, under pressure from the public and government members, also resigned at the time of the government of Zoran Zivkovic. What was I gonna say? Then came a completely different practice, to place political insolents, political opponents, in front of cameras, handcuffs, arrest people, or because they were political insinuators, or because they were thought to win some cheap political points. I will remind you, Milan Obradovic, today's director of the Directorate for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions, has been arrested. He's been released. Who will make up for that suffering and mental pain for him and his family? Rade Terzic was arrested as a member of the "earth clan" in front of cameras, handcuffed. In the end, it came down to something miserable. Dragan Djajic has been arrested. In all this I am not amnesting anyone, but he was arrested in an ugly, shameful way, in front of the children, in front of the family, with handcuffs on his hands. Did anyone think that way they'd get some political points? I've had it myself. And what happened in the end? Nothing. And here for days we have to prove that today is the day, that it is the day and not the night, that it is black and not white, and that we hear from Dinkic that he will not be replaced, because Dinkic's private company is the airport. Have all these inspections and police examine the Kargo Center story and how many millions have been abused around the Kargo Center. He says he's a good manager. Well, maybe for themselves, and for your own party, or for some people in that party, who are obviously used to working that way. There are no G17 MPs today. Why don't they come out? Why do they share what Bojan Kristo does? In this way, they silently support his abuses. I am truly joining what the head of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group said... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... And I expect, as Mr Dragan Todorovic said, that the government today will report to us on what I personally asked for a month ago -- that Bojan Kristo was targeted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8105	The word has been made by MP Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. I am informing the Assembly and the members of the Traffic and Connection Committee that the session of this assembly working body will be held today at 14 o'clock in the third floor hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8106	Here, I'll be very brief. I was encouraged by Mr. Batic's discussion about what happened. What's the matter, we know. Let's not go back to what happened. I remember "Sablje" when Serbia was arrested. It was no longer known what was, who arrested whom and where he was arrested. As they searched our houses, as the last of the scum, if anyone reported that the Legion had been seen in some environment, etc. Not to make the topic, not to run away from the main topic is Kristo, the airport, and it has to be solved during the day - the government's telephone session. This can't be tolerated. So, I don't want us to talk about what happened here, there's a lot of things, but there's no such thing as this anymore, and people don't come to such a position as this and morale. I'm reading. They'll come back. Well, he can't. And whoever robs the bank, when they catch him, and he wants to bring it back, but he can't go back, he has to go to jail. So nothing can come back. It's all a waste. We want to resolve this issue today and make this a warning to all directors. And another thing, very important. The company is managed by boards of directors. I ask the boards of directors and boards of directors to take certain responsibilities and to know that they too have to answer for these things. I repeat, I wanted good to this government. First, when she was elected, I approached the current police minister and asked him - ministers, get out of UBPOK, please. He says, "Why?" You'll see why. If you don't put him away, you're a free minister. And I'm glad when I read that he was removed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8107	There's a word from MP Suleiman Spaho. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. After all this has been brought out by the MPs of the SRS and our boss, Mr Todorovic, and this is about crime, major crime in the public enterprises of the Republic of Serbia, you must, gentlemen, and you from the position, ask yourself what this is all about. Here, I've been an MP here for a period, I know most MPs, there are both honest and honest in their ranks. That is why I urge them to influence their representatives in the government and those in the resolution ministry who are in charge of verifying everything that has been going on in the Public Enterprise of "Nikola Tesla". I know that most likely after the speech of your chief of Parliament club, Mrs. Hope, you will influence the authorities to solve these problems as soon as possible, especially this crime. It is normal for those in charge to hear the same thing, i.e. The government and the ministry, and that immediately, already today, they will send inspections to check the allegations of the SRS and all MPs who delivered them, about this robbery in Serbia's public enterprises. Citizens know what they want, bigger numbers, even though they're a little scared. As much as they trust in the government and in you, here in the paper today says that millions of euros have already been withdrawn from the banks. There's so much trust in the government and the ministry run by that resort. Normally, I also join my distinguished colleague Krasic - to include the Second Programme. It's the only way they can see and hear what's going on in Serbia's space, about everything, and especially about crime, which we'll talk about for a long time if you don't do something today or tomorrow, right now, on this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8109	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After him, the Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8110	Art. 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, here, for two days, intensively two days, the head of the SRS Parliament Club Dragan Todorovic is an affair, crime, corruption and enormous salary at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport by General Director Bojan Krista, and then lists some more, such as the director of marketing of the Commercial Bank Violeta Jovanovic, if I remember correctly. Since she, as a marketing director, as you said, finished the agricultural college, I took her right (yes, that's Sister Vitosevic) to try to explain how much for that salary, or the average of their salaries, a peasant, a pair or a farmer in a month should produce corn. Believe it or not, it's 125 tons, or four tolls about as long as from here, from this pay phone, to those boxes of journalists. I only took one pay average, from 800 and some thousands to 1,400,000 or 1,600,000, so I'd make some kind of parameter, not to take 200 tons without saying it's over six hats. You see how many a farmer, who sows corn in the spring in early April, only sells it there may be May, June and July, which is over a year after that grain enters the country, and Bojan Kristo, Violeta Jovanovic and other people who are with him at the "Nikola Tesla" airport do so in one month. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, I spoke again about one member of the G17, then Minister of Agriculture Ivana Dulic-Marković, who shared grants and long-term loans with her loved ones, especially the members of the G17. It has been shown that we will not give up on this intention, which Dragan Todorovic said, until someone is, and this someone, Bojan Kristo, has suffered all the legal consequences for such abnormal and abnormal wages that he has made to himself and his closest associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8111	National MP Radisa Ilic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), followed by MP Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since there has been a major fraud of Serbian citizens, I would say the fraud of the century, by Mladjan Dinkic, for which I have written proof, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to take concrete measures against Minister Dinkic for fraud, for indignity and humiliation of the reputation of the government itself and for the criminal act of fraud. What's this about? It is not about the fraud of a citizen, five or ten Serbian citizens, it is about 500,000 Serbian citizens who received such a letter, pre-election, dated 21.4.2008, with a memorandum of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the signature of Mladjan Dinkic and the seal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, members of Mladjan Dinkic's party have been arrested well, receiving salaries of over 1,000 dinars, and on the other hand, Serbian citizens have been deceived by such a letter, informed that they will receive 1,000-euro shares. Unfortunately, it's nothing. It is currently certain that it will receive about 20 euros, but it is also under question. In this letter, Dinkic, among other things, also called on JP "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which we heard a lot about in the discussions of SRS MPs. He just didn't write them spending money on the airport. People in Serbia, five million of them, are still hoping to get those 1,000 euros. But the citizens of Serbia, you know, there's nothing out of that money. Mladjan Dinkic has deliberately deceived you. He sent you this letter on April 21st, ahead of parliamentary and local elections, to fool you into supporting Boris Tadic's list, where he was. Now you're asking nicely of Minister Dinkic's action, asking that you have astronomical, million-dollar salaries, as well as his friends from G17 plus. The letter makes a parallel between 1,000 euros in the value of actions and times in the EU. I quote: "According to our estimates, the package of your actions will have a market value of at least 1,000 euros in case Serbia speeds up its path to the EU." Since Serbia is not moving towards the EU at a rate of 1,000 euros per hour, but at a rate of 20 euros per hour, it is clear to all that this story is a colourful lie for Mladjan Dinkic, which is why it should match. So, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia to take some measures against Minister Mladjan Dinkic for the deception of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which he did using the role of minister in the government, the memorandum and the seal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8113	The word is from MP Marko Milenkovic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on Article 100(1), followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Rules of Procedure No 225 and 226. Serbia has become a country where problems are accumulated daily in all areas of society, the state in which different types of mafias rule, and today, here we have officially come up with data on the existence of the airport mafia. After Maria Rašete-Vukosavljevic, Bojan Kristo was also celebrated at the airport, when Mladjan Dinkić, i.e. G17 Plus. I request a notice and an explanation from the Prime Minister of Mr Cvetkovic and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia whether they justify this ruthless robbery of Serbian citizens at the airport by individuals. While citizens live in poverty, they are being paid at the Airport in euro, as if we are already in the EU. It may be Bojan Kristo, flying in the EU, but because of this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is moving again and again on snails every day to the EU. However, the robbery by Bojana Kriste is not only stopped on salaries, his and his friends from G17 plus, but continues through his travels (traveling to Madrid 270,000 dinars, travel to London 130,000 dinars), through his signing of the airport restructuring contract, and we all know that the restructuring of the airport was completed in 2005. We come up with a logical question that is being raised here - does Bojan Kristo not only have powerful protection from Mladjan Dinkic but also from Boris Tadic? I'm asking for notice whether the government will stop this robbery, whether a budget inspection will be sent, whether UBPOK will be sent? Will the government's meeting to meet Bojan Kristo be scheduled urgently and will the competent state prosecutors respond? You, as the ruling majority, urgently have to show true concern for citizens and for the state, to advocate democratic principles, in order for the people to feel at least minimum respect for the principles of justice and justice, at least a minimum of social justice, at least a minimum of fight against crime and corruption. As prices of goods go wild, inflation rises, living expenses go to heaven, workers across Serbia are fired from work without explanation, and some there Bojan Kristo ruthlessly robs all of us and this is an extraordinary opportunity to see if Bojan Kristo has the support of the true ruler of Serbia, Boris Tadic or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8115	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He's not in the O.R. right now. Then the word has the People's MP Dragan Stevanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in accordance with Art. 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I would like to ask the Ministry of Energy in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is how I would define the question – what is the resolution ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically to create administrative preconditions for the implementation of projects in the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, or alternative energy sources? This is something that seemingly may not be in the context of this story, but certainly it can. The European Commission, dealing with Serbia and in this context, i.e. in the field of energy, has made a very reserved statement when it comes to energy, as it has been defined that the least progress has been recorded in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Since next year and the years that come in which Serbia will certainly be, when it comes to electricity, in the deficit, we are forced to question and commit to provide an alternative. We will either be forced to import, which is certainly bad, because of overall economic opportunities, or we will have to provide domestic production capacity. Since Serbia has major comparative advantages and resources in the area of alternative energy sources, i.e. renewable energy sources, the question arises why local communities or interested investors in Serbia face administrative obstacles by the government, i.e. all those who see their development chance, due to the inability of the government and the administrative bad conditions, these projects cannot be implemented and defined in their communities. I am therefore interested – what will the Government do to remove these administrative barriers in order to remove even regional development, in terms of which I have spoken, made it possible and ensured, what has it done so far and how much funding is needed for the realization of this? I'd like to make a proposal to the Ministry of Energy. If they are not able to allocate funds for the next year's budget for this, I would suggest that they hire a public prosecutor, the Anti-Organised Crime Authority, certainly all the competent state authorities, go to the airport to Bojan Krishte and apply the law we recently passed, which is the confiscation of property arising from the crime. I believe there will be more than enough resources to implement these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8117	The word has been given by MP Sreto Peric, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1), followed by MP Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dragan Todorovic presented precise facts and data and said which man was concerned, which business subject was involved, but the left side remained completely uninterested for a long time. I have to make sure it's "Nikola Tesla" Airport in Serbia. Serbian citizens understood that, but apparently you didn't. However, Hope Kolundji, as head of the parliamentary group, presented the facts and said that it is acceptable for you and we appreciate it. But, Mrs. Kolundjia, we know about the sting. The session of the Committee that was scheduled does not give us sufficient assurance that the problems will be solved and you knew about these facts earlier. We're neither trying nor trying to solve the facts in this place, but we want to point out that there are big problems and that they have to be solved. There are a few interesting questions here, and the first thing is whether this is a joint criminal enterprise. I don't know if Bojan Kristo is so big he can do this all by himself. If he did it himself, he's a terrible big man. If anyone helps with this, then it's a joint criminal enterprise and we've got to act before that. Mrs. Minister has come out, I'm interested, and I want to be informed - is our justice system able to solve this problem? Obviously, the cover-up of the crime was also intended as a criminal offence, and the fact that by the time we went out for Hope Kolundjia's pay phone, as head of the parliamentary group, no one noticed this, suggests that we were prepared and we were silent. Such a crime against Serbian citizens must not be silenced, especially since we are representatives of the citizens. Independently on which political list we were as candidates for MPs, but we here must protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Bojan Kristo and the G17 plus party are trying to make Serbian citizens sick. Not that they're trying, they've already done it. This is just one example, and we are absolutely sure that this is not the only public enterprise in which such enormous amounts were taken on behalf of wages, representations, travel expenses and any other possible way. We are only looking for and will be pleased when, for our own personal reasons, the budgetary inspection, UBPOK, the public prosecutor enters the company "Nikola Tesla" urgently and we demand that the Government of the Republic of Serbia schedule an extraordinary session at which Bojan Kristo will be dismissed from the position of the director of the Airport.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8119	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic is not here, and according to an agreement within the parliamentary group, MP Vitomir Plužarevic and MP Jadranko Vukovic have replaced the order, so that the word has a folk MP Jadranko Vukovic. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: the man signed up an hour after me.) ) National MP Dragan Shormaz throws - a man signed up an hour after me. I said, announcing to whom I am giving my word, that within the parliamentary group, and wishing for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, two MPs agreed to replace the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of reporting to this matter, but I had to since the matter was urgent. I just got a call from one of our officers from the Zemun municipality. I called in an article. 225th and 226th and requesting notice from the authorities. The man's name is Bibic Branko. He just received new threats from that Vucic criminal Vujisic Dejana-Vuje, from that criminal's cell phone 065-3425611, because of my exposure yesterday (He listened to this yesterday), as he previously called his daughter and threatened her. Since I went out for a pay phone (I had no intention of saying so), I am informing Minister Dacic and the police that this Vujisic is in the intervention brigade of a friend, Branislav Banet Jankovic. This Branislav was working in the intervention, covering Zemun, now he's an instructor at the intervention brigade. After Jadranko Vukovic started talking, saying that he was saying something, I didn't say anything, I'm just going to say it, they started harassing my son too. Intervention 6052, 14.11.2008 at 21.00 p.m. they greet Dad, break the car the second time on the same day, the same night at Tosa's well; 21.11.2008 in the middle of the day, the child goes to the store to buy groceries, they come after him like he's a criminal. Except for the offense, nothing has my son. I'm not afraid, neither is he. This is what I'm gonna do with Wolfie in my own way. The wolf is one poor thing. They use this man, Branislav Jankovic, who is the instructor, and these two intervention brigades are harassing us and using them to deal with our field activists. This is a very serious thing. I'm not asking for any protection from the police, I just want him to know about this event and this most recent one. I was just gonna tell him to go to the SUP Zemun to report the case. So you know, Alexander Vukic is the dirtiest politician on the political scene of Serbia and criminal number one from the political mile. I'll prove it if I get a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8121	The word has a folk MP Milan M. Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and he gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), and then after that, the Parliament of the People's Republic of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8122	Dear People's MPs, from above what we've heard these days, what's going on in one of the public enterprises, specifically in Belgrade Airport, I'm asking the competent state authorities what's going on with our state auditory house, what's going on with our budget inspection, because all of this shows that these services have to do and they'd have to be dealing with. These days, we've heard a complaint from the head of the state's auditorium that they have no conditions to work, or that they're not allowed to work. So someone consciously doesn't allow themselves to get in the way of these malfeasances. I will remind you that it is an obligation for economic operators to have their final accounts checked and delivered to the Ministry of Finance through an independent auditory house. All these activities cost money. For small or medium-sized enterprises, it costs, at the level of the year, about half a million to millions of dinars, and it costs workers and employers. If you need budget control, I'll give you an example. It's a small budget user, the local self-government of Bajina Basta, but based on the records and budget inspector's warrant, I'm just going to give you a few items that are registered here. One, that the trade union organisations of the budget beneficiaries should return illegally transferred 5,590,000. That the budget of the Bajina Basta municipality should be paid back illegally for the payment of salaries of 4,863,000. That the children's kindergarten account and the "Neven" barb "Bajina Basta" is being paid back at the expense of the Bayin Basta municipality's budget 2,442,000. To return from the account of the Public Enterprise, the Cultural-Informative Centre of Bajina Basta, to the budget of the Bajina Basta municipality, 100,000 dinars. In order to return the funds transferred for payment of works and purchase of computers in the account of the Bayina Basta municipality's budget from its own Užica Health Centre account, Bajina Basta's Home of Health on the basis of the budget of the Bayina Basta municipality, amounting to 1,778,000. Then, in the next period, the provisions of the Public Procurement Act are consistently applied. It is just a few examples that can give us the right to have budgetary controls and audits exist and that wherever budgets are spent, these and similar examples will be encountered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8123	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. Today we talked all afternoon about the crime of Bojan Kristo, and I will now introduce you and the public of Serbia to a part of the interview where Bojan Kristo is talking about himself. He says, Bojan Kristo, and he thinks he's the youngest, and if not the youngest, then he must be among the five youngest directors of state-owned enterprises in Belgrade. He was born in May 1976. The most important years, he said, had spent by the age of 15 on Lyon, and with a short 29 he achieved a truly impressive biography. "From 16 to 20, I lived in Great Britain, where I graduated from high school and economic studies. I started working very early. I was lucky my father had a private company, so I worked in it every summer and slowly entered business waters. I've seen it work outside, and how here, and also in Belgrade, I've been studying some schools. I went through the School of Economic Policy in 1997 and 1998, organised by the NGO G17 plus. On the other hand, I have experience on different jobs. I worked in a store, in a bank, in the cabinet of the vice-president of the federal government while the SRJ, as a consultant of the World Bank, was in the cabinet of the vice-president of this republican government, in the Danube Insurance. In December 2003, I began to analyze what needs to be changed in our system in order to be more efficient. I worked on the Insurance Act, the Bank Act, on the return of EU sugar preferences, on the creation of an Export Fund together with the World Bank, which is now being activated, and then I came to the gambling sector, which is legally unregulated with us. When the government was formed last March, I immediately insisted that a task force be established with the finance ministry to draft gambling laws, which, besides me, included several other competent government experts and IT experts. We have visited countries like us, but also Slovenia, Austria and England, and have found some medium solution.' It's obvious that Bojan Kristo was going around the white world on state spending and he found a solution, but for himself. Dragan Todorovic read employees' salaries here. A man named by name listed on that list has a salary of 14,152 dinars. Another man, who instead of a name has a code, is the first part of his salary is 880,226 dinars, meaning 62 salaries of this man whose name is indicated. So Serbian radicals insist that the government of the Republic of Serbia take appropriate measures to send SBPOK to the airport, to send a financial inspection. We ask the public prosecutor to respond and that the government, most urgently, during today's day, resolve Bojan Krist and hand him over to those who are still in charge of him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8125	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on article 100, followed by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 100. Rules of Procedure, and I'm calling for an article. 225 and 226. In the last month and more, and especially in the last two days, from the head of the parliamentary club, Mr Dragan Todorovic, we have heard so much data that it is simply incredible that this country is silent, that we cannot observe what is happening in the immediate environment, and Belgrade Airport is 15 minutes away from this assembly and from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we are familiar with the figures that are frantic, with the great abuses of money, with the great abuses of both personal incomes and the cost of representation and travel costs, so I ask the question – what are the other services doing? What does the Payment Service do when he reports that personal income of 1,600,000 dinars? How does he account for the income tax? How much is the tax item going to the state on personal income of 1,600,000 dinars, or on personal income of 1,100,000, or on personal income of 800,000 dinars? Is there a law on government wages? How is it possible to break that law? This isn't just Bojan Kristo's fault. He can't just be replaced and return the money, as his mentors say. Here, the assembly is due to be resigned by the competent minister and the minister who proposed that Bojan Kristo be the director of the "Nikola Tesla" airport. All MPs rightly demand that any discussion be interrupted until this problem is resolved. This is a scandal that in those countries that are civilized and respect democracy comes down to the ministry's minimum resolution, if not the government itself. We are working here to convince whether Bojan Kristo is a favorite of Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic, and in fact Bojan Kristo and Mladjan Dinkic go together in the package, because this is an unsustainable situation given the opportunities that exist in Serbia, that there are people like this, and it is not a lonely case, and that no state service works. The state audit house, the budget inspection, the financial police, doesn't work. They have no rights, nor are they allowed to go there. Why can't they? Because they don't have a warrant from Mladjan Dinkic, they don't have a warrant from Boris Tadic. If they had such a warrant, they would have prevented this many, many months ago, if not years ago, and wouldn't have allowed such things to be done where Serbian citizens today barely survive and barely make ends meet. We have powerful men from G17 and DS who are ruthlessly misusing their functions and spending budget funds. I therefore demand that the public prosecutor and all state institutions finally take over this case and establish a real factual state, and given this number of data, the facts are there, it is only necessary to implement the law that exists in the state of Serbia, which is that the competent minister resigns and that Bojan Kristo be placed in the detention unit and that all of his responsibilities be determined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8127	I'm setting a break and we'll continue our work, in the afternoon, at 3:05 p.m. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon session by discussing the details of the amendment to Article 44, which, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The amendment was discussed by MP Miroslav Petkovic. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8129	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from members 225 and 226. I ask the competent authorities to inform about the threats sent to the family of MP Jadranka Vukovic. Were the officials involved in, were the abused members of the MUP, a concrete intervention unit? Also, are those who broke the opposition at the republic's level, and are they trying to do that at the local level in Zemun, involved? In particular, I am referring to the facto leader of this group who did not participate in the elections, not the formal leader who is sitting here in the last rows and who I personally do not believe participated in these pressures on the Vukovic family. We're not looking for police protection, we're not whining like some people. We're not making up assassinations for raising our ratings. We're not afraid, and we're willing to physically stand behind every member of our own. We are not held together by money, but by something much stronger, friendship and love for the earth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8130	I'm asking the service to direct a stenogram of the MP's presentation to the Ministry of the Interior. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic, according to the amendment. National MP Miroslav Petkovic, the MPs believe it is necessary for the afternoon wish of the MPs to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure to continue in the afternoon. National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8131	It looks like an attempt to forget, but I don't have any information that Kristo's been replaced. We heard a lot in the afternoon debate about how the director of a public company was about 10 promised free campaign packages in this campaign that ended on 11 May put one salary in his pocket. We are, of course, joining this request made by Mr. Todorovic, and we are asking that this situation be resolved, but that is not all. What Mrs. Nada Kolundzija said today at the pay phone, it's all nice and wonderful, it's an upbuilding, but, you know, you and Mladjan Dinkic were on the list. That list was called for European Serbia, it is. They separated the parliamentary club, and you pleaded president of the Parliament Club for European Serbia, so you said you had a view about it. But you know what, is that all? For example, is it true, here I am now asking this question directly to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is it true that there is a problem in relation...? Please, you knew how to warn me. Yesterday they asked me why I was punished. I was punished for saying from the scene that I had referred a question to the Prime Minister. You warned me that I'd thrown out of my seat and you punished me with 3,000 dinars. Mr. Djokovic, former member of the DSS and former MP from the DSS ranks, throws twice at me and you do not warn him. Are those double arches? Will he be punished too? Will B92 ask him about 3,000 dinars? I guess it's hard. I would ask you specifically not to bother me with the picture of Zoran Djindjic on the laptop, but specifically to warn Djokovic not to throw it away. You won't warn him? Okay. So they're double arches. No problem. Two, twenty-three, I'll take it again. But is it true that Minister Mrkonjic has a problem because Mladjan Dinkic wants to separate a special company that is to build Corridor 10 from the Public Enterprise? So instead of privatizing public enterprises, we'll seem to be creating a new one. Dinkic has created a new public enterprise -- "Skistations of Serbia", now needs to create a new public enterprise to create a highway, cancel concessions, and today, when money is the most expensive, when banks fail everywhere in the world, to borrow Serbia with the most expensive loans to build Corridor 10 through a special enterprise that would, of course, be in its jurisdiction and under its ministry. Is that true too? A few days ago he lectured Greek bankers in Serbia and told them... (President: Speak for three minutes and 30 seconds. If I hadn't been handed over by an DS MP, I'm sure it would have been less. (Chairman: National MP, member of whom you have called...) I thank you. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8132	People's MP, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. You'll see by looking at the stenogram that you've called for article 223. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads, "The President of the National Assembly can grant the People's Parliament a leave of absence from the session, which is notified by the National Assembly." By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that I'm right. Your attempt to establish a dialogue with me during the time you received on the basis of article 100 and because you wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure is, according to the Rules of Procedure, forbidden to me to work. I can interrupt the MP from 101, 102, 103, 103 to 106, I can warn the MP, remind him of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but the speaker cannot request dialogue with the chairman. If I see the MP Djokovic throw you away, make sure he gets a warning, then a warning, like any other MP, and you have now misused the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, quoting a member who could not be injured, because you did not ask the President or me... The MP says it's not true. By looking at the stenogram, you said Article 223. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: I said time – 2,23 - two minutes and 23 seconds. You don't even know you're listening. You don't even know you're listening. So you didn't say which member at all. You're saying that 2.23 was on time. This is what you said during your presentation, which means that you have abused the Rules of Procedure because you have not mentioned at all any member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are calling upon you to get word over order and to say about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you can see through the stenogram of your presentation and my explanation that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He's not there. The word has a folk MP, Marina Ragush, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8133	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In essence, the entire opposition could indeed appear daily only by that member, because it daily violates the dignity of all MPs of the opposition, who have been seeking for months to actually oversee the work of all ministries of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Because there are 733,000 unemployed people in Serbia. Over half a million people live below the poverty line. Also in Serbia, there is one Bojan Kristo, which shares two-and-a-half thousand euros in bonuses. We really believe that here on a daily basis, but flagrantly, not only violates the degree of intelligence, but also the actual everyday attempt to survive in the state of Serbia. I'm guessing the cameraman who follows this House's meetings doesn't have a salary greater than 15,000 dinars a month. Journalists who try to draw attention to the work of public enterprises, hence organised crime in the state of Serbia, also have no salaries of more than 20,000 per month, and daily risk, from beatings to bullets, writing about such completely inadmissible things. What is also inadmissible is that we, as MPs, have been elected here to put order into the state (which, apparently, does not) to improve the standard of living of citizens who have given us confidence, do not get answers to the questions we ask daily. The only way to draw attention to what is an atmosphere in Serbia, which is an atmosphere of crime, because criminals do not respond, they are adventurous, is either the street, or simply a block of parliament's work. In the morning, we presented concrete data on the abuse in the business of one of the public enterprises. We presented what happens to the money that every citizen in the state of Serbia spends on taxes every day. The same citizen who calculates how he will equip the children for winter, which winter jackets or boots will be able to buy him, as he is in the prospect of losing his job, supports the representatives of criminals, and the government and the ruling majority look left-hand. So, the situation in the state of Serbia is such that we should stop taking care of it here, and only on that, by pushing it to the end, according to which member of the Rules of Procedure, which one of the opposition MPs appears here to draw attention to life problems, but to start thinking about the daily life of citizens who will not have a perspective in the state of Serbia in early 2009, because they simply will not have a way to feed their family. I'm sorry for the overrun of 24 seconds, but, of course, I'll continue to report until we get Bojan Krishte and his like out of these mouse holes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8134	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He's not in the O.R. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225nd and 226th, and I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior -- what did they do about the financial business check for JP at "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade? I've got a financial report here for 2006 and 2007, so I'm going to try these three minutes to find out what I found and what I found in the report. Namely, one of the sentences in the written text says the following - On 17 December 2007, the Management Board of the Society made a decision number 18310/2, which adopted a programme to resolve surplus employees. On the basis of the Decision, the company fired 141 employees in January 2008, while the severances totalling 135,635,000 were paid off on 27 December 2007. I read this because it has a foothold in the decision of the Management Board and the company director to conclude a business-technical co-operation contract and says in the text, on the 15th day of 30 September 2005, the company concluded a business-technical co-operation contract, number 917/05 with the company OZB "Comerc" DOO on the engagement of a task force to carry out aircraft reception and equipment, physical security, data processing services and the like. During 2007, the number of workers employed by the OZB "Comerc" DOO was around 520 workers. When we talk about the Director's responsibility, then we must include the Management Board, because all these criminal actions are attended by the Management Board and the Chairman and members of the Management Board. On the one hand, the Management Board shall decide on the lists of extra workers, and on the other hand we shall conclude an illegal business-technical co-operation agreement. Why is it illegal? Because it is not possible in Serbia's legal system, where the Public Procurement Act is still in force, to enter into a business-technical co-operation contract, hire someone and pay off certain amounts. I'll just tell you that, on the basis of the 2006 business-technical co-operation contract, 12m euros were paid for 2007 fivem euros on a private company's final service. On the other hand, we fired 141 workers. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8136	The word is by MP Zoran Ostojic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. He's not in the O.R. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 225, I would like to inform Members of the People's Parliament that the Serbian Progressive Party MP group "Forward, Serbia" received a letter from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which I must read to you to understand what the government is doing, and then I would advise the Prime Minister to help him understand what he needs to do. "The government of the Republic of Serbia is closely monitoring and analysing the possible impact of the global financial crisis on Serbia's economy. In this connection, a future arrangement with the IMF has been agreed and other activities have been taken to identify the measures the state intends to take to mitigate the impact of the global economic crisis on Serbia. In the process of making adequate decisions aimed at stabilising the conditions of governance and taking measures to improve the business environment that the government is prepared to take, a series of meetings with representatives of political parties are envisaged. Starting from the above, we invite you to meet with the Prime Minister whose aim is to exchange views and to look at the concrete measures that need to be taken in the next period." It really makes no sense for the government to address the presidents of the parliamentary groups, to discuss with us the measures to be taken at a time when measures should have long been taken. So I ask the Prime Minister, if he wants any meetings with any MPs, is he ready to answer the question – why does the governor of the National Bank put 50m euros in the oven every day (sometimes 40, sometimes 60), defending some course without knowing from whom (is he from the bankers he wants to save)? Does he know that all the credits the citizens have already collected by 12-15%? Is the Prime Minister ready to propose immediate border closure measures for imports of goods from abroad, especially for these dwarves, to which millions of euros are going, hard to obtain? Did the Prime Minister talk to any contractor, private contractor, owner of a company that employs three people or 30,000 people? Did he allow them, these Euros that he throws out every day, to stabilize their production, to help their workers? Is there any plan, a state plan, to save Serbia's economy, to save Serbia's population? Of course, you need to arrest this Kristoff, you need to arrest half of this gang that's robbing Serbia, but that's the measure that needs to be taken in half an hour and done. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) This, Madam President of the National Assembly, is really about much more serious matters, much more serious matters. They'll break these pens, too. They'll have MPs to buy new pens, kids won't have money. And to you, gentlemen, that you are no longer involved in politics, let me say... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm sorry, I'm done. You can tell me whatever you want, I won't answer you, I don't have anyone, but don't accuse Alexander Wolficher of being a criminal, of being a drug dealer, of being one or another, because he can't answer you here. Courage is for public and media performances. So, any one of you who has proof that Alexander Vukic is a criminal, I call upon him to present the evidence, not to embarrass his family, both wide and narrow. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. I call on every one of you to start doing politics, to save what little respect you have left in the U.S.S. I warned you a month and a half ago and you wouldn't listen to me, today I beg you again. There are seven-eight of them that lead you to ruin. You're all going to ruin just like you don't see what's happening to you. (President: five minutes. I'm part of it, we've been creating it for 18 years, don't throw it under your feet for just a few months. Don't listen to those who laugh by force, their heart is so scared. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8138	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn "Time." You can see by seeing the stenogram that the view of using time is exactly the same for any speaker, and that we did not throw away when speaking to the president of our parliamentary group, whichever it is, then I ask you not to do it either when the president or the president of another parliamentary group says so. The People's Messengers are getting, "Who is it? ". Just now, Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group, has completed his presentation, with great difficulty because I failed to fulfil the obligations set out in Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to ensure order and to take care of order during the session while any speaker speaks and I failed to apply Article 104, which says that there must be no interference with the speaker behind the pay phone, and MPs on my right, in rows from two to eight, produce quite a strong sound by hitting various cases about the inventory of the National Assembly. National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8139	In this capacity, I appear, as president of the DSS parliamentary group, using the right to do so. 100, 101, 104, 225 and 226. So I assume that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has some way to communicate with individual heads of parliament on a written basis, answering some of the questions that have been asked. I am here to express my surprise that it is possible that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has not writtenly addressed all the heads of parliament to answer all those questions that have been raised here for the past month and a half. Therefore, these questions must be raised again, as they have been asked in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure, through the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is also a regular form of asking questions that are important for the work of MPs and which must be answered. It is amazing that a month has passed since the DSS parliamentary group submitted a proposal from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the Education of the State Commission for the Monitoring of the Economic Crisis and that it is now listed here that in some letter, which we have not seen, which someone in this Parliament has received on behalf of his group, is considering this possibility. You know, that possibility has nothing to consider. There has been a proposal before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a month and the ruling coalition and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is deafening the proposal, as if it were an abnormal thing, as if it were something that should probably be against the interests of the citizens of this country, rather than in the interest of the citizens of this country. How is it possible that in these two months, by asking questions related to the economic crisis, the fate of the economy in the country, we do not get a single answer from the government of the Republic of Serbia, from the prime minister who likes to go, to take a picture behind the lap of the president of the state who plays the portfolio of the government, and this one puts a hat on his head and paints behind him -- how is it possible that we don't get a single answer from that man? How is it possible not to answer the questions that we have asked the same prime minister through the ministers present here, that the DSS parliamentary group submits a valid bill on amendments and amendments to the Deposit Insurance Act, where we have proposed that the secured sum be increased from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros, that 15 days after that, the Government of the Republic of Serbia would adopt its proposal with a sum of 50,000 euros, and then reject the DSS proposal with an explanation that the government has made a better proposal because it increases the amount to 50,000 euros? It is something that offends the intelligence of the people whom the people have chosen to represent the citizens of this congregation. It's something that offends common sense. I cannot believe that, after all this time, I need to know in this people's assembly that there is a correspondence between the Prime Minister and individual presidents of the parliamentary groups, no matter what the correspondence has initiated, some question that has been asked by written means, it is completely irrelevant when the questions that are being asked and the way these questions are asked are exactly the same before the law. Where's the answer to our questions? Where is the answer to a number of other issues that we have raised when it comes to the government's inability to manage any process concerning economics, economic stability, macroeconomic stability in society? (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Thank you, I respect your warning, and this is what I end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8140	The MPs are until Monday, the first working day of this week, using an article. In 225 and 226 as part of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the Rights and responsibilities of Members of the People, requested a total of 195 explanations. By Monday, 83 explanations came to the Assembly from competent authorities and organisations, which were referred questions by Members of 225 and 226, by the MPs. So, since 195, it's been 83. At this point I don't know how to tell you which 195 and which 83. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. You didn't even ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I told you... Sit down, MP, in your seat, I'll explain. Thank you. So, you have shown in your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure doubts about the way the Assembly communicates with the authorities and organisations to which MPs, and by art. In 225 and 226, they refer to the explanation requirements. I just told you a number, not to argue that you're right about your protest that no written answer has yet arrived at your request for an explanation. So, I tell you again, a total of 195 requests have been sent, 83 arrived and I agree with you that it should have arrived 195 (only for the sake of the public). National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, as agreed by the heads of parliament, has the advantage and gets the word. You immediately after her, according to the same agreement, therefore, between the president of the parliamentary groups and Vladan Batic. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8141	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I have come to the floor using my right to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Rule 104, because I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely violated by giving your word to a gentleman who is acting as head of a parliamentary group and who has dared to comment on what the Prime Minister is writing and seeking to the heads of Parliament. I am not going to go into whether or not Mr. Cvetkovic was supposed to do something like that or not and whether it's okay or not, but he obviously didn't mean Mr. Nikolic when he sent such a letter to the heads of parliament, because he couldn't be a member of parliament anywhere in the world. That he went to the polls with his political party or when he goes to the polls, and he says he will be (when they are, it will be when conditions are obtained) and when he wins the seats and trust of citizens, then he can be legitimateized as head of some parliamentary group. Mr Nikolic, since he has no opinion of anything, so here are two days after his clear statement that he is offering this same prime minister to join the government or support that government without G17 plus, which is something fully expected in view of all the circumstances under which this political party was created, his ideologist Aleksandar Vukic has been trying to wash, protect and somehow mitigate this suicide statement, because then the whole public would have been clear about the role of this political party that was created in foreign embassies. What I particularly want to point out is that this man, who has been represented as an MP here, has done something that no one, I think, but the morale cannot accept as acceptable, especially when it refers to a man who has been fighting in The Hague for six years not only for his rights, but for the defence of Serbian national interests. We know he's being tried for alleged hate speech, and he's in yesterday's newspaper saying that Vojislav Seselj is ready even, so he just said, "and that he's organizing someone to kill me". I think he's saying it himself enough. He could, challenging him to conflict with ideology, if that political party had any ideologies at all, that he was an honorable man, to wait for that man to return from The Hague tribunal and tell him, "I can't support SRS's ideology anymore, now you're not my teacher," as he said so far, "now he's my master," so let him go his own way. This is how, in an attempt to break up the SRS, it causes enormous damage and it really is about the head of an innocent man, and what damage it does to the Serbian political scene and Serbia in general at the moment when the Kosovo and Metohija issue is being resolved, when the Vojvodina issue is being updated, historians and scientists will give a much better explanation than we could at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8142	National MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the parliamentary group, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8143	Now I have called on Article 27, although, according to the Rules of Procedure, as I read the provisions, I have the right to react and to tell you that I am not satisfied with the explanation you gave me, and I will do so very briefly. So, it would be very good, I think it would be great if we were to ask a hundred ninety-nine and a few questions really do get answers to eighty-something, as you say so much has arrived. So we should see that. That's it. Just to introduce you to that fact and that circumstance. Maybe you didn't know that. We didn't see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8144	I agree with your remark that all 195 requests for an explanation were to be sent 195 answers and not. I take that obligation, as chairman, on behalf of the President of the National Assembly, to examine together with the Secretary of the National Assembly who did not deliver the notice and that, under Article 27, those who did not do so, deliver the notices they asked for on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia". An explanation to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic – during the session is given exclusively to MPs, members of the government and persons who are invited to the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8145	Since there's been an untruth here, I have to react. I received a letter saying: "Republic of Serbia, Government of the Republic of Serbia, cabinet of the Prime Minister, date of 25 November 2008, Serbian Progressive Party, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, president. Dear Mr. Nikolich... "So, the one you say is moral enough that he can't call me president of any party or parliamentary group, that's what he called me. But it doesn't change my attitude towards the government, it just teaches me that it should, apparently, in the Assembly say everything, so that no one would comment on what I said in the paper. And now I'm going to repeat what I said in the paper, no one has to wash me: if the Government of the Republic of Serbia understands the seriousness of the situation, if it wants us to get close to the Russian Federation as soon as possible, to deliver laws that regulate it. Those laws will not be voted by G17 plus and some other parties. We will vote in favour of these laws on one condition, that emergency parliamentary elections be called immediately. Well, that's that statement, which no one has to wash and stand behind right now, and day and day. And that's what Serbia has to do right now, whether you like it or not. There are political parties that are against co-operation with Russia. I expect them to have arguments against this, but I don't expect arguments from parties who want to co-operate with the Russian Federation. As for the elections, we went to elections in Vrnjačka Banja, where the two top SRS officials led the campaign, and the election in Književec, where the other two top SRS officials led the campaign, and you, gentlemen, did not win any parliamentary mandate. It's your influence and it's the special quality of your new team running your party. You beat yourself to the will, that's not how voices are provided. You speak as much insult as you will, you have told me that this dissension is motivated by the desire to introduce counsel Vojislav Seselj. Now you can see that you lied. You said I wanted to testify with a hidden character and a voice against Vojislav Seselj. Now you can see you're lying. You're saying he doesn't want to kill Vojislav Seselj me or anyone else. And that's where you lie. Through your beatings, he's preparing to haunt our families and you're taking part in it. And that little "lauferci" may well imagine what he was doing with the children in Serbia, which he poisoned them with, since it was obvious that the snow had fallen, not to cover the hill, but, gentlemen, that every beast would show its tracks. You'll be giving up some of those who sit here with you and bang on the benches soon. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-25-0.u8146	Gentlemen, I was engaged in other duties, also because of the function in which I, of course, followed the atmosphere. The information you gave behind the pay phone has reached both the public and the authorities who need to do their job. Please, and I urge you to go to that activity we're here for, to work on the amendments. That's the only thing that's celery. I'm sure you all think it's necessary for everyone to do their job at this point. I'm sure everyone will do their job. You've sent enough information to anyone who needs possible leads to check and work in accordance with the rules of their profession. It is clear that we cannot take any investigative actions or carry out inspection tasks, we can point to that. Please, let's work on the amendments. Do we have a deal that we can work? The list of people registered under the Rules of Procedure is over 20. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the meetings are attended by 132 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. I welcome Mrs. Minister and Mr. Cosic. Before we move on to work, let me inform you that I am in the communications I had with the government, and regarding our working day yesterday, I have received information that inspection affairs will be initiated by the Resoring Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, and that the Government in writing will inform the Assembly during today's working day about everything it intends to do and what we can expect about the ideas and initiatives that are being said here. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
