ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3225	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The first session of the Second Regular Session on 7 October 2008 (The first day of work) (The session began at 13.05 p.m. The chairman of Slavica Djukic - Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 170 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are so many MPs present that we can begin work, in accordance with Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session for Tuesday, 7 October 2008, within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008, held on 16, 17, 18 and 21 July and 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 September 2008, and the Third Special Sessions of the National Assembly in 2008, held on 15 September 2008. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions (Article 86(5)). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Administrative Board, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008, held on 16, 17, 18 and 21 July and 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 September 2008. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: For – 127, against – no one, the abstentioned, voted four, out of the presence of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2008, held on 16, 17, 18 and 21 July and 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 September 2008. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 15 September 2008. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: For – 128, against – there was no one, the abstentioned, voted one out of the 129 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly in 2008, held on 15 September. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. Suggestions to consider an emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft law on the approval of the International Convention against Doping in Sports, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 July 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate tasters on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: For – no one, against – 127, abstained, voted 17, out of the 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law on the standstill and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 July 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate tasters on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: No one, against – 128, was abstentioned, voted 18, out of the 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft personality data protection law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate tasters on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: For – 127, against – one, the abstentions were not voted by 17, out of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Association Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: For – no one, against – 127, abstained, voted 18, out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed putting the draft law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 127, abstained, voted 19, of a total of 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no, there were no, there were no 18 votes, of a total of 146 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal offence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no votes against and abstentions, there were no votes 21, of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on legal persons' liability for criminal offences, which was submitted to the National Assembly on July 28th, 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, "Belgrade highway and bypasses", which it submitted to the National Assembly on 5 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, the "Belgrade around Belgrade", which submitted to the National Assembly on 5 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on foreigners, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no votes against and abstentions, there were no votes 21, of a total of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the protection of the state border, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 September 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, which submitted to the National Assembly on 10 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, there were no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Anti-Corruption Agency's draft law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 128 votes against – no one, with abstentions, voted 23, out of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 127 votes against – no one, with abstentions, voted 25 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on public procurement on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 128, abstained, voted 24, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Securities Market Act and other financial instruments, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2008, be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 127, was abstentioned, not voted 25, out of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda the draft law on granting a guarantee to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (The measures to protect the environment in lignite thermal power plants), which it submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 128 votes against – no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postal Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – 128, with abstentions, voted 23, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal from the government. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the bill to confirm the agreement between Serbia-Montenegro and the European Community on certain aspects of air traffic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 127, was abstentioned, not voted 25, out of a total of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the unification of certain rules for international air transport, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 126 abstentions, voted 24 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an urgent procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999). establishing a Common European Aviation Area, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 129 abstentions, voted 24 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2008, be put on the agenda. I would like to put this proposal to the vote of the Government, please, Members of Parliament, to press the appropriate key on the parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 128, with abstentions, voted 24, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – 127, was abstentioned, had voted 27, out of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 October 2008, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, there was no vote, no vote was taken by 32, of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 108 MPs suggested putting on the agenda the draft Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 June 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, v – 127, the abstentions were not, did not vote 10, out of 176 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic suggested putting on the agenda a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on elements of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 July 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – 127, the abstentions were not, did not vote 13, out of a total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The parliamentary groups proposed that amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be considered as an urgent process. However, by way of provision of Article 42(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly found that the National Assembly decided on the resolution and selection of a new member of the committee at the first next session following the submission of the parliamentary group proposal. This also refers to the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia – Unique Serbia, 7 October 2008, at 9.15 p.m., which was divided before the beginning of the session, which was not contained in the proposed agenda of the session. For this reason, there is no need to make specific statements about the proposals of the parliamentary groups, as they are included in the agenda of this session in the very letter of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal to merge the debate. Mr. Aligrudic, did you want something?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3227	Now I'm going to tell you what I wanted. I'm reporting for three basics, at least. To be rational with time, because I appreciate that such a need is the ruling majority, I will not report three times in a row and use nine minutes, so I would ask for a little tolerance, over three minutes. First, I think you've violated Article 27, the first point of the single position that article 27. The Rules of Procedure have, when it comes to the obligation to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because in Article 106. The constitution, and I must quote it, because, directly, there are no provisions in the Rules of Procedure, says: "The first regular session begins on the first working day of March, and the second regular session begins on the first working day of October. A regular session cannot last longer than 90 days." The provision of Article 106 in this part was violated by you because you did something that was unprecedented in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia so far. You, in effect, scheduled a voting day for the previous session for today, this morning, at 10 o'clock, well, and that was moved to 11 o'clock, but you had no right to do so. You had to finish the previous session before the regular session of the National Assembly, or regular session, began, and there was no way, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that those two terms should be covered. That was impossible and you couldn't do it. In the current practice of the National Assembly, at least when the DSS was in the ruling coalition, we always pulled points from the session agenda at an extraordinary session to finish it before the regular session, or regular session. We watched those two terms never match. This is the first time something like this has been done. I think that's what you broke the Constitution for. Since you won't agree to this, there's no need to answer me afterwards, because I know what your answer will be. I insist that this breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, be made known in the day of the vote. It's another thing. When I wanted to point out this circumstance to you in the morning, before the vote began in the voting day, I reported, of course, using the right of Article 100, attitude 1, which says, "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker". You didn't do it, although you had to do it, and thus, undeniably, you violated Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I may have an understanding of the unwritten rule that during the vote, no word is given about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I did not ask you; I asked for a word about the infringement of the Rules of Procedure before the vote began, just to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the day itself to vote and to what we are doing at that moment. If you were so restrictively interpreting the Rules of Procedure, it would turn out we could never get a word in the Rules of Procedure when we're looking for it. Furthermore, when it comes to this session that is under way, Article 140 states: "The bill is first conducted in principle." Paragraph 2 states: "The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or are related to each other, with a decision on each proposal being made separately." So, from the proposal itself, which has been distributed to all MPs, we have seen what the ruling majority intends to bring together as a debate when it comes to agenda points. Believe me, that, under the provisions of Article 140, in the broadest possible interpretation, is not possible. I call on you to give up this proposal and call on the MPs not to accept such a proposal, because it is indeed contrary to the spirit of Rule 2. The ruling majority today decided to remove the draft resolution of a group of MPs on the protection of state policy, i.e. territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Serbian state, when it comes to Kosovo. That's what you showed your attitude towards it. You have shown that you are not interested in the National Assembly reacting, by a certain decision, in relation to two important things – it is a declaration of the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and, secondly, an attempt to implement EULEX on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as a reliable sign of the dispersion of the state of Serbia, or the European Union's desire to finish the job. That's how you showed your true face. From this, there's nothing more to be said. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3228	Mr Aligrudic, in order for the session to begin and to be able to advertise the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to vote on the agenda. It's only then that the session begins. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 140(2) and Article 149a of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data, the Proposal for a Law on Confiscation of Property resulting from Criminal Crimes, the Bill on the Liability of Legal Persons, the Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with regard to the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, as regards Supervisory Authorities and Cross-border Data Flow – points 3, 7, 8, 14, 15 and 6 of the proposed agenda. Second, a joint single search on the draft laws: a confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development "Belgrade highway and bypasses", a confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Trainline around Belgrade", a confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe, and a principled search on the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivredina of Serbia" (The measures of environmental protection in thermal power plants on lignite) – points 9, 10, 13 and 18 of the proposed agenda. Third, joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the State Border – points 11 and 12 of the proposed agenda. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 127 MPs voted against – 17 were not abstentions, there were no 11 MPs, out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The establishment of the session agenda in general. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there were no abstentions for 127 MPs against – 17. It didn't vote nine. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 as a whole. I ask the Service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the protection of personal data; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow; 3. Proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence; 4. Proposal for a law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development "Belgrade highway and bypasses"; 6. Proposal for a bill to confirm the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "The Prosecution around Belgrade"; 7. Proposal for a Law on Foreigners; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of the State Border; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe; 10. Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties; 12. Proposal for a law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" (measures to protect the environment in lignite thermal power plants); 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act; 14. Proposals for a decision on amendments and amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by parliamentary groups: - G 17 plus (number 02-1529/08 of 15 July 2008 and number 02-2232/2008 of 26 September 2008), - New Serbia (02-1600/08 of 17 July 2008), - United Pensioners of Serbia (PUPS) (number 02-1803/08 of 4 August 2008), - The Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) - United Serbia (JSJS) - (number 02-1804/08 of 4 August 2008 with correction of 2 September 2008), - For European Serbia (number 02-2021/08 of 9 September 2008), - Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica (number 02-2259/08 of 29 September 2008), - The Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS) - Unity of 7 October 2008 (S38). We move to the agenda according to established session work. The word came from the Rules of Procedure, Mr Todorovic, and then Mr Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work envisaged by the Constitution." What was unimaginable is that it could happen to us, unfortunately, today has entered practice and you will be able to use it in the future work of the National Assembly. So far, since 1990, the Constitution has never been so brutally trampled, as it has been done today. Even Mr. Micunovic, who is known for violating the Rules of Procedure, even the ruling majority voted for him, would not have done something like you, Mrs. Dejanovic, did today. I simply have to invite you to a common sense, to look at the calendar, to look at the Constitution, and to see that there is no possibility of an extraordinary session being held in October, because the Second Regular Session begins on October 1st. For the sake of citizens, since you are constantly abusing the possibility of accusing, first of all, the opposition and the SRS of obstruction, of saying why you're doing this. You are unable to provide a simple majority and vote in favour of the draft laws you put on the agenda. How insecure you are is this session today. You're voting against your government's proposal today. It's out of your mind. You're able to do anything that suits you, because in politics, you're only being led by one single reason, one single motive, that's the political benefit you're currently having. I would suggest, since you are already preparing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, that you introduce this situation in some way, to insert one member who will vote that this Rules of Procedure should only apply if at some point the need to be different and that the ruling majority do not have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. What you're doing, or Natasha Micic, who introduced the state of emergency, would never have done such a brutal violation of the Constitution. What is particularly important, Mrs Dejanovic, is that you have elegantly crossed over fully legitimate and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, requires 108 MPs to put the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija in the assembly procedure. When you now look at the effect of your work from the moment you took the presidency of the Assembly, you will see that you have broken the Rules of Procedure many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3230	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3231	I call upon you not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Since Mr Aligrudic has already called on us to make a statement in the voting day on this, I would ask that it be done, and because of this session today, wherever you voted, we will submit a presentation to the Constitutional Court, to see if they understand and whether they will go over the fact that you are in breach of the Constitution in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3232	Thank you. No act foresees a decadent when it must be a day of voting. Your proposal will go to the Constitutional Court. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3233	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I have reported that I am advocating a violation of Article 82. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly at a time when there was no reason to advertise another breach of the Rules of Procedure, which threatens Parliament's dignity. I think each of you sitting in this hall is clear how humiliating the position of the Serbian Parliament is. If it is a humiliating position in which our parliament is located, what is the position of the state on which we decide? It's the same one. Of course, responsibility is personal, but responsibility follows the position you're in. The opposition is responsible when blocking Parliament's work and when issues arising exclusively from a party's interest presupposes issues which are of general social interest. I'm interested, Madam President, who's responsible for having so little life today in this debate that starts at 14 o'clock? Who is responsible for not finding within the agenda a proposal that we have submitted to Parliament, not with the ambition of LDP leading Serbia to Europe, but with the ambition of helping the government in a job in which the government has failed. We did not want to applaud Prime Minister Cvetkovic's government in the process of European integration, but we thought that what happened in September was a sufficient reminder and precondition for reaching a political agreement, which is being built here in the Assembly, on the achievement of our European future. Such a thing required agreement by the parties sitting in Parliament. We wanted to discuss, on the European future of this country, on Europe, which has become a front and excuse for every kind of incompetence and weakness, those incompetences and weaknesses that drive us to discuss agenda points that have no touch points with each other. What is the connection, Madam President, with the proposal for a law on foreigners and a bill on the protection of the state border? It's how irresponsible the law-relationship of the law, and it's the law itself that we're banalizing. What does the principle joint investigation have to do with the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, the proposal for a law on the liability of a legal person for criminal offences, the proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties? This is the attitude to laws that humiliates this society. We dream of the support of society, and we don't care about these laws ourselves. Where were these laws being discussed? What forums? Which of the MPs has the opportunity to participate in the preparation of these laws? This demeans the work of those who have worked hard on this. That's very irresponsible, that's terrible. Do you know that since the stock market opened, the value of actions on the Belgrade Stock Exchange has dropped 12%? When the value of the stock dropped 5% in Moscow, the stock exchange closed for two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3234	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3235	I've quoted these pointless agenda points and it's my business law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3236	That's why you've already had 25 seconds of overruns.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3237	I was very precise, quoting the agenda points. You can insist on discipline and I welcome your insistence on discipline, but I ask you, where is life in this assembly? Yesterday our stock market fell 10%, in four hours today – 12%. The euro is 82 dinars, and yesterday was 76 dinars. There goes a 10% raise given to the pensioners. The financial system is going to break. It doesn't matter, does it? Then it should know our society, that Parliament is not interested in the life and agony towards which Serbia is slipping. It doesn't matter. We've chosen the Board of Governors, and no one's involved. Go out to society and say that it doesn't matter that companies lost 12% of their value in four hours, companies where thousands of people work, companies from which families live in this country. When will this be discussed in the congregation? It is not about Europe, it is not about breaking our financial system, but it is about devising Parliament. It's the ruling coalition. If we don't care about the law, why should the laws respect some local self-government, why should the laws respect our society? We fight it. The authority is returning to the Assembly with the self-respect of Parliament, and you, Madam President, have humiliated it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3238	Mrs Nada Kolundžija, by analysing the content of the proposed texts, made a proposal to the Assembly on the merger of points, and this assembly voted, precisely, on its proposal. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3239	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated Article 27, item 1, points 1, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Articles 82 and 83 This is no ordinary, banal violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is about the very dangerous intention of the ruling majority when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. On 16 June, parliamentary groups, i.e. 108 MPs from the SRS, the DSS and New Serbia proposed a decision to the National Assembly on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. In order for the citizens to understand what I'm talking about, it's about the resolution on Kosovo and the Metohija. The ruling majority has been deaf for several months to put this very important point on the agenda. We had some consultations of the Parliamentary Group with Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Bogdanovic, and in these talks, some strange things were happening in these consultations. One of the ruling majority MPs suggested it would be best not to discuss Kosovo and Metohija at all until we see what the outcome will be in the UN General Assembly on this motion for a resolution that Serbia has sent to the General Assembly. We had an observation that it was very dangerous, yes, on the contrary, we must once again tell the United Nations and the whole world that for Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is an inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. Today it's clear why you don't want to put this on the agenda. We asked, that is, in conversations with Minister Bogdanovic, we said that the resolution proposed by the Government is such that it is actually irreparable. We asked the minister on two occasions to put any government objections on this resolution, so we could talk about it. That didn't happen until today. You, therefore, obviously do not intend to discuss Kosovo and Metohija at all, and now we are particularly afraid of the statement made the other day by Boris Tadic, first of all, that Serbia will be flexible when it talks about Kosovo and Metohija somewhere in the white world, and secondly, when he proposed the division of Kosovo and Metohija, and then I said, no, I was joking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3240	The assembly, of course, needs to make a statement on this issue and, as you know, the consultations of the Minister for Kosovo and the heads of parliament are under way. I was in a business obligation to put on the agenda and one and the other, sincerely hoping that we would get closer to attitudes and that we would have a unique text. I'm setting a break by 3:00. [[After break, 15.15]] Before we continue our work, I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. I would like to remind you, in accordance with Article 94, that a joint principled search is carried out on the proposals for the protection of personal data, the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, the liability of the legal persons for criminal offences, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties and the Single Review on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automatic processing of personal data, as regards supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the MP group of Serbian Radical Party – one hour, nine minutes, and 36 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group Progress Serbia – 24 minutes; the Socialist Party of Serbia - the United Serbia - 18 minutes; the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the MP group of New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are on these agenda points, for DSS – MP Jovan Palalic, for New Serbia – Srdjan Spasojevic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data (Common Principled Search with 3.4.10 and 11th Point and Single Search with the 2nd Point of the Agenda) Does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, want a word? I'm sorry, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3242	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because I called to speak to the Rules of Procedure before you read what you just read to us. You saw and nodded, you saw me answer the word, but you wanted to tell your story, and it doesn't matter anymore. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure from time to time, and it's already become the manner of your work. I want to speak on the basis of Article 101. The Rules of Procedure, that is, about the injury of that member. The injury refers to the morning part of the session, when you deceived Serbian citizens to conduct discussions and consultations with Minister Bogdanovic regarding the Kosovo and Metohija Resolution, submitted by SRS MPs, DSS and New Serbia. When you put on the agenda a moment ago to vote, let it be an emergency vote to discuss this proposal, we in the SRS didn't want to vote at all, because it was obvious that your intention, it was clear to us for several days, not to discuss it in the National Assembly. We held three rounds of talks with Minister Bogdanovic. In the first round of talks were representatives of all political groups and then we talked about the proposal for a resolution by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on KIM. I said already, the remarks we had on that resolution are such a character that we found, at least we from the SRS, the DSS and New Serbia, that the proposal cannot be fixed at all. We asked the minister to make remarks on our proposal. The Minister didn't do it until today. That was almost ten days ago, he said he had some obligations, that he would be absent from Belgrade for three days, and we accepted it. Today it is clear, given that we have not received the opinion of the minister, nor his, possibly, remarks, that exactly what one MP of the ruling G17 Plus coalition said at these consultations, I do not want to speak my name so as not to challenge the replicas – that we do not have to bring nor to discuss KIM until the UN General Assembly has brought about this. We don't think that's good, on the contrary, that it had to be discussed and that it had to be the first point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3243	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3244	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3245	Mr. Minister for Kosovo, Mr. Bogdanovic informed me that consultations are under way and that when the consultation ends, he will inform me. I was obliged to inform the MPs about it. It may be that consultations with individual parliamentary groups and have been completed, but, as you know, we agreed that nothing would bother if there were one assembly declaration regarding Kosovo and Metohija, and in that sense we also made an effort to make one joint text. Mrs. Radet's answering again according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3246	I don't doubt your good intentions, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, but it's about what the facts are. We all know that the President of the Republic said a few days ago that Serbia will be flexible when Kosovo and Metohija are negotiated. We know that after that he said that one of his thoughts and division was KIM. It's for Serbian radical, absolutely, unacceptable. Why did we say that the Minister, or Government's resolution, cannot be fixed, and Minister Bogdanovic has been avoiding for days to make clear the government's resolution regarding the Eulex mission? The essence of our resolution, our proposal, is that, above all, we want to preserve Serbia and KIM's unity as part of the Republic of Serbia. We want this parliament to declare what the majority of Parliament's opinion is when it comes to the Kym mission. We Serbian radicals think that this parliament, like all state authorities, must in the most decisive way possible oppose the deployment of the Eulex mission to KIM. The assembly majority, run by Boris Tadic, obviously wants to buy time, bring us before the final act and then fold their shoulders and say – what we should do, what we did, we are against it, but now, what is there. We do not have a clear position, first of all, of Parliament, and Parliament's position would be binding on both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we insisted and that's why we're repeating it, and we're going to repeat that it was necessary for this to be the first point of the agenda. In the last few days, you have publicly warned the MPs of the SRS that they are obstructing Parliament's work, because we have insisted that our kidnapped parliamentary mandates be returned to us. Of course, we haven't forgotten that now. And now we remind you that you are under the obligation to give us back the kidnapped mandates, but when it comes to a subject called Serbia's Unity, KIM within Serbia, then Serbian radicals, as always, use all their strength and all their knowledge, precisely, to convince the congregation's majority. I am sorry, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that we did not convince you to put it on the agenda, but we will have to use both the Rules of Procedure and all our business opportunities. We need to push that out and, above all, explain to the citizens of Serbia what is the priority today in Serbia for the SRS. It is Kosovo and Metohija in the part of the Republic of Serbia, it is the absence of Eulex in the KIM territory and it is stealing of the electoral will, the electoral will of Serbian citizens and the return of the kidnapped mandates to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3247	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovanovic answered. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you that today we'll be working after 18 hours, until the end of the agenda point, given the importance of the agenda point, the united dots.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3248	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported in accordance with Article 100, and in order to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 94. Article 94 defines the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups, and the member found that the total time of the debate in principle for the parliamentary groups was five hours, that the time laid down in Article 1 was allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Madam President, you have just mentioned the importance of this agenda point as a reason for the extension of the debate to be held by the Serbian Parliament. I call on you to explain to us, since you have allowed a representative of the parliamentary majority to do so, where this was relevant, when we are now facing the fact that Parliament will, in principle, discuss 50 minutes of each of the laws that are as significant as they are, and the law on the protection of personal data, the law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, the law on the liability of the legal persons for criminal offences, the law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties and the law confirming the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data. What will the debate in Parliament be like when all parliamentary groups are discussing a total of five hours on six laws? You're obliged to provide us with normal work. How can our parliamentary group, which you have made available for 15 minutes, be adequately discussed with six of these laws? Article 98. Serbia's constitution says the National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of constitutional and legislative authority. If this is the first body of our country, then what are the others? We have not heard any argument from the ruling majority – why can we not discuss this in a reasonable way. You know that the Galactic announced his resignation, you know that the Information Commissioner announced his resignation, that the government didn't accept any amendments, you know that we've been writing amendments. What's the point? To begin the fight against corruption in this country, by resigning by the Commissioner for Information resigning, by obtaining the Anti-Corruption Agency and losing the Anti-Corruption Council. It's creating new chaos instead of old chaos. We want to participate, we want to help the government, we want to vote for some laws, and we can't say one word about it. In 20 minutes, which as head of the parliamentary group I have the right to use, I have six laws to speak of. What will this debate look like? Here are the representatives of the government who need to explain to us, Madam President, why Parliament needs to pass these laws. What will it look like to discuss? I can't imagine that. It's never happened in the congregation like this, and it's not going to get us anywhere. If we don't understand what we decide, how will society understand the rules by which it should live? We don't have a state audit institution that works. That's what we talked about a year ago. We fight corruption, we face consequences, we don't affect causes. We have a collapsed system of human rights and civil liberties. How do we deal with this problem? Very irresponsible. Tell us why it seems, well, if there's any valid reason, then we'll agree to it. Now, this debate doesn't make any sense, and it's going to turn into chaos. We will not be able to get the information we need, and Parliament will vote on it in the voting day, with the parliamentary majority not feeling any need to take responsibility for the decisions it makes. You are required to protect this congregation. It has never been Serbia, from 2000 to today, in such an awkward position as the one we are in. No more arguments, which could be used, as was the case in the past. We're all responsible for this country. Please understand that this House will not get anywhere unless you allow us to take that responsibility in accordance with the interests of the citizens we represent. Let the parliamentary majority tell us what it is that forced them to bring these points together on the agenda and to shorten our debate on all six points to a humiliating five hours, to force us, as a parliamentary group that received 220 thousand votes, to talk about six laws in 15 minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3249	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3250	... Who in their right mind can do that? If that doesn't matter, think about it, the next time you ask for support for some of your initiatives, you won't be able to come across our understanding. It's irresponsible behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3251	Mr Jovanovic, the Assembly, on a proposal from Mrs Kolundzija, made a statement to most of the votes, and it was my obligation to inform both the public and you. We'll hear it now from Madam Minister and Mrs. Kolundgia, during the debate, just let us move on to the agenda. Just to let you know that he is a representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group on this point, Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic, and Mr. Jovan Palalic has advertised his Rules of Procedure. Since you are asking what points this is, it is a proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, a proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, a bill on the liability of a legal person for criminal offences, a bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency, a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3252	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 226, that the MP has the right to request information or explanations from the president of the National Assembly that is necessary for his work. We are facing the fact that this assembly of the National Assembly has in no way responded to the huge political events that take place in the southern Serbian province, Kosovo and Metohija. We had the custom, like all political parties, that when certain events occur and threaten Serbia's territorial integrity, we react to resolutions. It was a practice in the previous two convocations of the National Assembly. We now have a case to move on KIM the Eulex mission, which intends to implement Ahtisaari's plan rejected by Serbia's state authorities and which has not been supported by the Security Council. We have the fact that the illegal KIM institutions, which have declared a false state, have brought the Constitution. The state of Serbia, through its highest representative body, did not react. We listen for days that there are certain virtual consultations, we have been listening since June to the session of the Assembly to find the item of the agenda dedicated to KIM, which will clearly take a position on the Eulex mission and on the constitution declared there. We are facing today that the motion for a decision that has been taken by 108 MPs of this House calls on the National Assembly, through the will of the parliamentary majority, to be taken off the agenda. We are listening again by you, Madam President, to the explanations that one day, if we agree, a resolution that will respond to this event may be discussed. Please, since your promise was, when you were elected to this function, that our motion for a decision would be on the agenda of the National Assembly at the first session, to explain why the decision was now made not to be on the agenda. I agree that these are very important points of the agenda, but you will agree, I believe that that is what all MPs and representatives of the assembly majority think, that Kosovo and Metohija is the first state issue. I do not want us to be silent and show impotence as a state while in Kosovo and Metohija a mission is being deployed aimed at implementing Ahtisaari's plan and, in fact, Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. Please also respond to the National Assembly of Citizens as to why the parliamentary majority decided to remove this item from the agenda and how things with the consultation stand, given that it was clearly heard in public, that is the position and the DSS, that there are no touching points on key issues. That's the attitude of the National Assembly on the Eulex mission. Place that point, so let's see how the parliamentary majority will determine itself according to the Eulex mission, that we simply clear things up and that we know what the positions are, that we don't talk in gloves and that Serbian citizens clearly know what is going on and what politics is going on in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3253	State and national policy is a matter of all matters, but we must work on the agenda that this assembly has adopted. The word is Mrs. Radeta Verica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3254	It is true that the Assembly must work on the agenda as well, but if we choose priorities, and we can do so as Government and Parliament, then certainly, today in Serbia there is nothing to interfere with the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, given all that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and all those threats that have taken place over Kosovo and Metohija, over Vojvodina, over the Republic of Serbia, over all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is no paranoia, this is something that is a fact, unfortunately, today in Serbia. You, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, have also injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, even in that afternoon work, because you have not responded when in public these days, absolutely, unauthorized persons appeared to talk about some obstruction of Parliament by MPs of the opposition. That was also said by Mladjan Dinkic, Boris Tadic, who was not challenged, nor had the authority to deal with it, and you did not react to such statements in public, and you should have reacted. You listened to them, so again in the media, you began threatening the opposition's MPs, first of all, the SRS, because in the previous days, as we will in the future, we insisted on returning the SRS' kidnapping mandates. But we still haven't got the explanation here that it's based on Article 90, and in relation to Article 140, Mrs. Hope Kolundji connected points 1, 2, 3, 4, and then you confused the order, so you went to 10, 11. There is, therefore, none of what is contained in Article 140 which obliges, i.e. to allow Parliament to discuss in a united debate on these points of the agenda. The fact that you're saying that you're in a hurry to pass these laws because of the white Schengen list, that's the deception of Serbian citizens. You don't want to. You've been obstructing it for eight years. You have been obstructing Serbian citizens for eight years. If you really wanted it, because I'm getting attached to October 15th, like you suggested this morning, if we hadn't left the Assembly, we wouldn't have been able to cross all these points in a month. You are now connecting incompatible. All the colleagues who have spoken here are right to leave the possibility of having such important laws conduct a unique debate in a very limited and short time. If you wanted these laws to really be passed, you would have taken advantage of the possibility by the Rules of Procedure, scheduled for an emergency session, which could have started on 3 October, and these laws would have already been passed. But the assembly majority are obstructing Serbian citizens, as it also obstructs the election will of citizens, as it does not allow the SRS to return kidnapped mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3255	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Zeljko Tomic. I have not responded to anyone's statements, except that I want to remind you again of the many telegrams that have arrived, numerous applications and demands for citizens to work on the agenda and to deal with legislative activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Rule 225, the first position, which he says - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. One of our functions, as MPs, is the work of the Assembly Committees. There are several congregation committees that have not been formed to this day. I urge you, Madam President, to do everything in your power to form. Among other things, I go out especially because of one, whose member I am, or I will be, since it has not yet been formed, which is the Committee on International Relations. Why am I saying this? Just a few days ago, a autumn meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was held, where, among other things, a resolution on the position of national communities in eastern Serbia and Hungary was held. Romanian parliamentarians, in co-operation with other parliamentarians, have tried to act on a resolution in whose text it would say that Serbia is scrutinising the Romanian national community and that, I say, it is forcing it to declare itself as Vlasi. I think what the Assembly should be doing, among other things, is reacting to such phenomena, especially when actors, the main actors of such phenomena are MPs, our colleagues from various other parliaments. Someone said the other day, it seems to me that it was Mr. Vladan Batic, that we have not passed a single law, some committees have not yet been formed, so I must appeal, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to force myself and you as president of the National Assembly, just to do our job. So we want to participate in what is the work of the MP. It's not the job of a MP just to talk about the agenda. Of course that's what we're going to do, that's what the list of people that are registered for discussion is about, but there are a lot of things we should do. It's a sad fact that we haven't passed a single law in four months. It is a sad fact that congregation committees do not work. It is a sad fact that the Serbian Parliament does not place an opinion, and we are representatives of citizens who have elected us, according to the media, to the public, to everyone, about the various things that happen both in Serbia and across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3257	Thank you. You just supported that agenda item I personally suggested for this session. Indeed, I estimate that the formation of the bodies and committees of the Assembly is inevitable, but I ask all MP groups to help us, each in their own way, to form them. The word is Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 161 has been injured, which regulates the emergency procedure, as well as Article 84(2). It is better to say - abused, although we do not have that provision in our rules of procedure, because the discussion of previous colleagues, as well as us, Serbian radicals and colleagues from the DSS, has just shown us in front of the entire public where we are today. How much the absence of reality with an authorised proposing representative, with the DS Parliamentary Group and those who help them in it, says the fact that today, October 7th, more interested journalists in daily magazines in Serbia than the ruling majority are on the issue of KIM. I believe that you, some colleagues from other parliamentary parties, just like us, have come to be called journalists of individual daily newspapers and to ask us how we react to the announcement of the separatist Montenegrin government, headed by Milo Djukanovic and their Foreign Minister Rocen, after a session held Friday, in the Montenegrin Parliament, to the recognition of the Quasi-Cyptina state of Kosovo by Montenegro's criminal click and how we react to the latest statement by European representative Peter Feith that there is no European integration until Serbia recognises the status of so-called. The EULEX mission in Kosovo and Metohija. We find ourselves in a very, very difficult situation. This people's assembly is tumbling over the incompetent government and because of the president of Serbia, who obviously does not care about the fate of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, who makes such statements and returns us to some stories from 1994, which, you remember, was then started by Dobrica Cosic. We Serbian radicals then had to print a special edition of the magazine "The Great Serbia", to explain to the citizens, back in 1994, what danger such madness poses to the idea of dividing our southern province. You call a session and you tell us, you're still uniting so many agenda points, as a reason for an emergency procedure -- the necessity of adopting these laws, because that's what your Western mentors are asking you to do. What is more difficult than the National Assembly to respond to these obvious threats? Do you know how many of our countrymen, and you know, live in Montenegro and how Serbs in Montenegro know that, in a day or two, the separatist criminal power, headed by Djukanovic, will go through those who have done so and are EU members?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3259	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3260	I'm done. How do you think it was for us, members of the delegation, last week, that fellow Tomic said just a few things, when we came to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and when we saw what further nooses around our necks tighten and open these non-existent issues of equality between Vlah and Romania, the existence of a problem in so-called, as they said, the Timoko Valley? How unserious the situation is at every turn, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, is also saying this. You are also a regular professor of the university and a respected expert in your field, and Dr. Paja Momcilov is the chairman of the Committee on Health and Family, and this is the only Assembly committee working intensively on strategic documents. The man wants, a Serbian radical, to work and see what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3261	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3262	Yesterday I attended the session of that committee. They do not know whether to apply the modified "Monika" or "Sindi" strategy for non-infectious diseases, but which, unfortunately, as an infection spreads and hundreds of thousands of our inhabitants suffer. Don't play with the patience of the citizens. If you are willing to humiliate the National Assembly in this way, if Boris Tadic wishes, and it is obvious that he will sell Kosovo and Metohija, if he has sworn on the Constitution, we will Serbian Radicals to the end to defend the interests of our people and the state. That's why we got the trust and it's the only thing that obliges us to work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3263	Srdjan Spasojevic is advertising his Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. In 225 and 226, and I ask for an explanation, President, which are the citizens of Serbia who have asked and begged for work in this assembly. For the sake of these citizens, I want to say here that NS MPs came in neatly at 10 o'clock, that the ruling majority had no quorum, that they had moved the session to 11 o'clock, 12 o'clock, 13 o'clock, and that, absolutely, it is not true that the opposition here, in this case NS, obstructs the work of the Assembly. Otherwise, the merger of these dots is indeed notsens. It's humiliating to combine the agenda points like this without making any sense. There's also the minister of justice, so let her say if it's normal for these points of the agenda to come together. Indeed, such a relationship is unacceptable to us, given that words have been used to some MPs here as "here, something wants to say to Aligrudic", one way or another, which is absolutely not right. First you scared us with that huge 28-point agenda, then you brought us back to some small agenda points, and then you unnaturally united those agenda points. If these agenda points are so urgent, why did you put, first, 28 points, and then you started to vote unnaturally here and return the agenda points to the beginning? Why didn't you put these points of the agenda in this session of the regular session immediately? It creates a fake picture with Serbian citizens that you want a large number of agenda points, and then we're supposed to be obstructing here. Such a comedy, indeed, should be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3265	All the points proposed were an emergency procedure and I was in a business obligation to put them on the agenda, and the priorities were determined by the majority that came out here today. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3266	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, we have tried to provide our suggestions with the necessary preconditions for a normal discussion of these important points of the agenda. We came to this assembly this morning at 8 o'clock, we were at the first consultations, at other consultations, at third consultations, all last week we participated in this Spanish series, which is actually the only real name for what is being organised every day here, with devastating outcomes. I, and our parliamentary group, have a lot of understanding for the dissatisfaction of citizens, but the responsibility for the state in which the Assembly is located is individual, and, on the other hand, institutional. Madam President, you are responsible for this. We do not accuse you, as president, of the parliamentary majority's decision, but you were obliged to draw attention to those who make decisions in this way in Parliament to push us into an even bigger problem than those in which the Assembly is. If people ask us what we voted for tomorrow, how can something like that be answered? You know about the personal data protection law, that Serbia is the only country that does not have such a law. We will now listen to the minister who will talk about the law and five other laws, at the same time. That's what we were supposed to do. We haven't worked all last week, not because of LDP, but because you, as president, didn't schedule that session. This isn't a priority issue of our relationship. Here is a priority issue of public interest relations, and this public interest obliges us to have a quality discussion, to have a responsible discussion, to respect the arguments and facts. In all of this, we have been prevented from making these quick and irresponsible moves that the ruling coalition is making, trying to solve one problem by creating a new one, even bigger than the previous one. Look at what looks like a side on which representatives of the ruling coalition sit. So it's not important for them to discuss these laws, or was it enough to vote for the adoption of this agenda and go somewhere else? We will not allow Parliament to deal with these laws in such a way. If we have 15 minutes, because you have decided and allowed it, as President of Parliament, you have had to protect the integrity of this institution, well, among other things, our parliamentary group and the 220,000 people who voted for us, by drawing attention to those who are trying to catch up quickly that it is impossible to discuss six laws in 15 minutes. We will also respect this institution and the decisions that have been made, which I do not agree with, so we will participate in the debate as much as necessary and to the extent that we are allowed to do so. I remind you that you are extremely responsible for the quality of the debate and the fact that those interests we are obliged to respect will be compromised. I am sorry, but in Serbia it is not the first interest of the ruling coalition. If it was ever like that, that time was wrong. The first interest is the public interest, the interest of those people we decide on today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3267	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3268	You're playing with that interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3269	The word is Mr. Sasa Milenić, then Mr. Ilic. In order as Mr. Odalovic wrote, please, you will all come, wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3270	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable representatives of the proposings, I declare the violation of that point of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which all MPs and all parliamentary groups commit to respecting its dignity. The Serbian Parliament is just our national expression of a universal civilization value called representative democracy, which, in part of the inspiration of names such as John Locke, Tom Payne, Thomas Jefferson, has become a value that has been transferred from modern times to modern times and has become universally binding. I'm specifically talking, Mrs. Radeta, about what you've been saying and a whole series of MPs, in the same tone. You explicitly said you were obstructing Parliament's work because you did not agree with Kosovo and Metohija's theme as a first point of the agenda. Then you explicitly said that, I guess, it's obviously a theme of all themes and themes, of which it can't be more important. Who says that? Who says that? That's what you say, Mrs. Radeta, and your MP group, which, to remind you, has lost the election. The elections broke on the subject – Kosovo or nothing, or, on the other hand, the issue of economic prosperity and raising the life and civilization standard of citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens voted in favour of this second, just as the assembly majority, according to the citizens' will, set priorities for this session of the National Assembly. That's exactly how it's gonna work. Please do not obstruct the realization of Serbia's majority will by minority will.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3271	Thank you. The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it really bothers me when I listen here to obstruct work, that there are problems, that laws cannot be passed, that Serbian citizens are concerned. It stands, citizens are really concerned, but the ruling coalition must provide conditions for the work of Parliament. You have to have a quorum. You need to bring in the ministers. The Prime Minister has to come. You have to solve your problems. Your problem is the Administrative Board, not my problem. You're the government, we're the opposition. Your disorganization doesn't bother us, but it bothers the people, the citizens of Serbia. You solve a lot of problems the way that suits you. Please don't violate the dignity of the Serbian Parliament, don't step on us, humiliate us and underestimate us, don't rub the floor on the MPs, don't bring budget rebalances the way you bring it. It does not come to Parliament, and you are already sharing the money that should have been passed through this parliament. Who taught you to raise your pensions linearly? Maybe Krkobiæ? It can't be linear, maybe we'd agree to do it in another way, to raise that poor, poor girl and the poor girl who has five, six, seven thousand to some threshold, and then raise those who have huge pensions. You do all that in advance, make some loans. How do the ministries that were formed this year work? In temporary financing. There goes the end of the year, you can't finance a whole budget year like that. You break laws, you break deals, and you ask us to accept them, we confess and legalize them. So, you get organized, and we're organized enough. Don't call us again. You have an expensive government, gentlemen. You started buying giraffes and horses and ponies and drawers. Well, you're not normal, people, who's teaching you that? You're embarrassing us. This is the biggest mess. Thieves. Now every piece of shit she's gone into government has a wish. You meet your wishes, and that's why you're expensive. Whoever comes to mind, and someone's gonna think of you building a playground for him, a club, someone's club, and you're gonna fill it all out. You're full of budgets and you're breaking the budget law that we're supposed to agree together here. Please don't do it anymore, don't solve it that way. You're in crisis, you can see that. That's your problem. We are here every day to help you, to go faster, to help the people to speed up, and you are now power, we were power until yesterday, and some will be new power...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3273	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3274	... A new government, and let's all get the job done. Of course, the opposition is doing its job. The government needs to do its job, show seriousness, and in that seriousness to find yourself. Solve your problems, gentlemen. The pine you don't solve, that, please, solve for that people there, Majdanpek, Magnochrom, you have to solve. Dinkic can't handle the railways right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3275	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3276	... to solve corridors. Mrkonjic does it, please, you've mixed everything up. The Ministry Act doesn't work. You're making advice and you're violating this House's decisions. He can't break the concession, I'm telling you. The concession is now the most favourable, because of the crisis that is in the financial part...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3277	Mr. Ilichu, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3278	... You can't do credit lines, now it's unfavourable, now it's time for a concession great, and you reverse...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3279	Will you finish it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3280	... Here, I beg you, be serious about restoring your dignity to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3281	Ambassador Zoran Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3282	Dear Members of the People, the President-in-Office, of 15 hours, the MPs appear in the Rules of Procedure, appeal to you and draw attention to the fact that the beginning of this session itself is irregular and that it is not logical that for very important laws, which are very difficult to connect, and you have done so, you give only five hours of debate in total and the opposition – slightly less than 2.5 hours. You must understand that you are the president of this House. No matter what the ruling coalition tells you to do, you are, unfortunately, the person who has to give the opposition answers, and not only to the opposition, but to the public. So if you think this is logical and it's feasible, that this is okay, then we understand Parliamentism differently. It is therefore impossible to connect six very important laws and ask the opposition to discuss it in a very short time frame. We are witnessing that the opposition has been marked as an element of obstruction in the Serbian parliament on several occasions. Now we want to work. You're preventing the opposition from expressing its opinion on these bill proposals. You simply have to answer whether this is logical or not. You're in that position and it's your job. That's the first thing. Secondly, what we at the DSS insist on, you must give an answer, which is why there is no agenda point related to the Kosovo Resolution, i.e. regarding the decision of this assembly on the Parliament's relationship, first of all, towards Eulex. So we can't stick our heads in the sand. We can't run away from the most important subject. This issue and this problem have consequences for all the laws we need to pass. To this you must give an answer to both this Parliament and the opposition parties, you must give the public that answer. You're the President of the Assembly, and that's your responsibility. It's 16 hours and five minutes. You gave a statement here 20 minutes ago, I believe it's true, that a large number of telegrams have arrived from citizens asking us to work on the agenda. So, you said it in 20 to four. I insist, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 225, that I be given an insight into all these telegrams that have arrived at 15.40 hours, that we really see how many of these telegrams are and what the demands of citizens are, so that as an opposition we can, possibly, correct our views and meet citizens' wishes. I really expect that from you, because I don't want to believe that this is used for mere propaganda purposes, as it used to be and as it used to be, thousands of telegrams of various support. I believe that you are a serious speaker of the Assembly, I believe that you are a serious politician, I know that you are also a serious woman, and I therefore expect and demand from you, as a Parliamentarian, to give me an insight into this assembly and to give an insight into all these telegrams that have reached 15.40 -- to really see what the citizens have been asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3283	Mr. Nikolic, you've had the opportunity to extend double the time for discussion. To be perfectly honest, I expected it from the opposition. You didn't do that. As for the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, representatives of your parliamentary group participated in the discussion and we took a common position that it is good that on the subject of the KIM and the country's state and national policies this assembly has a unique position, so that the result, possibly, of voting the document is 108, 100 or less than 250 MPs, would already be good to be at least over 200. We have made great efforts and I fully agree with you that state and national policy, I repeat, is a question of all matters of this country. As for telegrams and public influences on how we should work, if you may have followed the shows that I participated in – Bridge TV, B92, where I was guest, the largest number of questions was related to it. The telegrams that have reached this point are in the cabinet and you have a chance to see them. I invite you to come see them. There's a word Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 226. So, we, Madam President, presented to you on 16 June the draft Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and asked you – why is this not on the agenda? What did you say to us then? If you hadn't been president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia then. What does that mean, you pushed everything you found on the table and threw it on the floor? This means that there was no parliamentaryism in Serbia before you, that only by your entourage did parliamentary life develop in Serbia! Well, it won't be like that. On the contrary, it will be that you are suffocating democracy in Serbia, that you are against the debate on important state issues. You have accused the opposition of obstructing Parliament's work, and today, at the meeting, we had one item on the agenda, the law on standing down and the write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. I'm going to quote what the reasons for this bill being passed as a bill. Please don't count me this time at the time I'm talking about. It is said that "insured insurance for which contributions were not regularly paid to contribute to compulsory health insurance conditions for the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights, i.e. to create conditions for the certification of insurance documents, health books, or special instruments on the use of health care; to create conditions for insurance, i.e. employers to start with regular payment of current obligations on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance, in accordance with the law; to increase the current income of the Republic Health Insurance Office on the basis of regular payment of current payment obligations." The law says that the required obligation to overwrite health books, i.e. special medical protection documents, can only be carried out on the basis of evidence that a contribution to compulsory health insurance has been made.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3285	Mr. Dimitrievich, watch your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3286	I was quoting, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3287	I can't allow time, because you're not quoting the Rules of Procedure. When you quote injuries to the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't get in your time. You can finish what you're quoting, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3288	So, Madam President, by removing this item of the agenda, you have dissuaded several tens of thousands of citizens, you have forbidden them to use health care. So you've done something that's also against the interests of these citizens. Why is this law off the agenda, give me an explanation for that? How are these people gonna be treated? Where are they going to verify the books? What's he gonna go to the doctor on? Give me an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3289	I thank Mr Dimitrievich. I look forward to the desire to work promptly, but I must tell you that this synergy has come from the last calling of at least 100 laws, which have been returned to the government and the government re-delivers them. Therefore, it may have been more useful for you to use that energy and the labour frequency initiative at a time when your president was also Prime Minister. He has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic. He won't. There's a word, Mr. Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, reporting in connection with article 27. Madam President, your way of running the National Assembly reminds me enormously of that bass about cricket and ant. By your own free will, the congregation has not worked all summer. Today is October 7th, and a regular session is scheduled to begin on October 1st. Why? Because you didn't want to. So don't give us the sermons and put together the incompatible today, so put together both the "babes" and the "toads" in the agenda and explain that it's because of the white Schengen list, because of European integration, etc. It's all fraud and deception and lies. Then we listen to Baron Minhauzen, Deputy Prime Minister, as he says - we have a weak opposition in Parliament. No, it's a very strong government when he's her vice president -- whoever he says -- is lying, and then, after six years, to a man who doesn't even have a shred of morality, it was reported that the late prime minister promised him that he would be the president of the SRJ. These telegrams you receive, which you don't honestly say, people are asking what about the actions that this same Baron Minhauzen promised them and from which they will be able to get 1,000 euros each. Over NIS, up to 20 euros are missing another 980. So don't blame the opposition for all this. These are the serious points of the agenda. What do you expect? That about six laws, most of which have no logical, elemental relationship with each other, we're taking 15 minutes? Don't deceive the public that it's a condition for the White Schengen List. The main condition, which is co-operation with The Hague, you still don't meet. Do not deceive Serbian citizens that the opposition is obstructing Parliament's work. No, you've been schnappling all summer, you've been going on a pilgrimage under the lip, to Pogorec, and now we have to work from morning till tomorrow by laws that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3291	Thank you. I can't answer your findings, and I don't want to. Nikola Žutić, according to the Rules of Procedure. (not present) The word has Vladimir Milentijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. In 225 and 226, this is the relationship between the institutions of the Republic of Serbia to the KiM, particularly the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, I would remind you that in Kosovo, the Assembly of the Community of the municipalities of the AP KIM, consisting of delegates of all parliamentary parties, which held two sittings with agenda, where all delegates of all parliamentary groups belonging to this parliament attended, but none of the representatives of the government attended. So, on neither, nor on the other, except for that constitutive one, where representatives of the previous government attended. I ask the question – what kind of relationship does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have towards the Assembly of the Community of the municipalities of AP KIM, does it support it because it is expected? I've asked for these four months' response from the government of the Republic of Serbia and probably someone will now say I'm obstructing, according to the Rules of Procedure, when I ask, perhaps, the fifth time this question. So, the government hasn't spoken to the Community Assembly yet. The government has not yet allocated funds, not a single dollar, for the work of the assembly, but for the delegates to self-finance, and has found that there are no representatives in those congregations. That's one thing. Secondly, the Republic of Serbia's attitude towards KIM. For four months, the Republika Srpska Assembly is trying to put the KIM Resolution on the agenda. There's been some kind of consultation for four months. The results are gone, we're witnesses. You know why? Because it's so complex that it can't be the agreement that you, Madam President of the Assembly, expect. You should be concerned because it is not on the agenda, why it is not discussed and why you failed to unblock the work of the KiM Committee within four months, which has not held a session, and four are scheduled. You have appealed to the opposition to assist in the work of the Committee. Well, what kind of demagogue at this point where most of the boards are members of the position. How do we block the Committee's work?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3293	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3294	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I'm looking for information. I believe that the president of the assembly did not give good information, that she did not give a good enough answer to criticism from a number of MPs and the heads of parliament, when objections were placed to the merger of these agenda points, each of which should be treated in particular. You replied that this was proposed by Hope Kolundji. Well, the lady sits here. If that's what she's proposing, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, please explain to us how you managed to bring these agenda points together, because there's no point in bringing Mrs. President into such an awkward position, that she's calling on you, and you're sitting there, in the second row, and shut up, and she's using your name. Can you please explain how it's possible to combine a whole huge topic? When you look at public opinion research when it comes to corruption, it's a huge topic. Citizens are terribly irritated by the creepy situation of corruption in Serbia. You know, even Transparens International says that in the last year, we haven't taken a step forward in the fight against corruption. You are also a representative of the pro-European orientation in Serbia, so you know that there is no movement towards Europe unless there is, indeed, a serious fight against corruption, and you are one of the major points of the agenda, the Agency, a new institution, put together, let's say, with also a very important law such as protecting personal data, where we need to talk very closely about these topics. You put it all together. In particular, citizens are concerned about the fight against corruption. That should be one-day, at least, the subject, especially that we are very dissatisfied with how the Justice Department has proposed this law to us. There's a lot of problems. We can't talk about it, we can't talk about it, but you put it all together, and now we're just getting ready at the Parliament Club for how to even overcome those five laws, to go out and talk about whether or not we should split up into groups, so we can try to embrace these topics. It is impossible for such big topics, for which the public is so interested, to suggest so timidly that you continue to call yourself some kind of coalition that should lead us to Europe. So, Mrs. Nado, I ask you not to invite the president anymore, but to explain how possible and why we are doing some points together. We could have connected something, and as you suggested, it really doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3295	Thank you. It's Mrs. Kolundji's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3296	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reasons for the unification of the debate, in my sense, are more. So the need for us to adopt these laws as soon as possible, the fact that we are late with them, was the initial reason to speed up this whole business by unifying the debate. Then, the fact that some of these issues regulate laws back in the 1970s and 1980s, that by crossing jurisdiction from the federal state to the republican state, there is, in fact, no organisation or institution involved. So there are internal reasons why it is necessary to pass these laws as soon as possible. Of course, there are also reasons for European integration. These two groups of laws, the law on borders and the law on foreigners, are the two laws that are a condition for achieving the conditions for the white Schengen list. The package of anti-corruption laws is also related to Serbia's continuation of the path towards European integration, and these were the key reasons why I proposed this, starting with the fact that the principle debate is, in fact, just to say, an argument for MPs and MPs who plead for reasons against or for these laws in principle, as well as that the amendments each parliamentary group have the opportunity to discuss for 15 minutes; on average, there are about twenty amendments under each law, which means that each parliamentary group has five hours of concrete discussions on the concrete solutions that are related to these laws. So, if the total amount of time every member of Parliament and every MP has is added up, I thought it was possible to propose a debate like this. Of course, there could have been a proposal on your part, not to increase the overall time of the debate and thus get more time. Of course, if there's still that feeling of too little time, then all my argument can't solve that problem for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3297	Thank you. Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3298	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not get an answer to the question I asked in my first presentation. Given that the Rules of Procedure clearly state what laws and decisions are put in place under an urgent procedure, among other things, the urgent procedure is followed by decisions that may endanger the security of the country and the work of the authorities and organisations, is it possible that the ruling majority considers that what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, the deployment of Eulex, the adoption of constitutions by false institutions, the false state of Kosovo, does not pose a threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia and its territorial integrity and the work of the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia? I want an explanation. There has been a proposal, since June, 108 MPs, suggested that an emergency procedure be discussed, namely, calling for this provision of the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure, as something is happening down there that threatens the very foundations of the Serbian state, and then the ruling majority, without explanation, takes that point off the agenda and moves it to where. What is more important and what is more likely to endanger the security of this country and put it in an emergency procedure, other than what appears to be down by the false institutions, the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo and Eulexa? Please, since we're getting calls too, Parliament Club, citizens are wondering why not discuss Kosovo for four months, even though a lot of things have happened? Explain to the citizens, because these consultations you mention are ongoing so that the agreements do not exist, they run so that they will never be agreed, that the Republika Srpska Assembly will be gone and that it will remain silent before these facts that are happening below, primarily I mean the deployment of Eulex and opposition of Serbs down there to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3299	On many occasions I tried to give an answer, if I failed, really, I couldn't repeat the same sentences I said an hour ago. Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3300	I'm reporting from article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is, in fact, the replica of my colleagues, I apologize, I don't know what it's called, I know Dinkic's MP in Parliament. I don't know why, by no means, it's already intervened several times after my presentation and after the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. We have never told anyone from the SRS that we are obstructing Parliament's work. I repeat, we are always using the Rules of Procedure and we have never, nor will we obstruct Parliament's work. Of course, it does not mean that we will allow you, the congregation majority, to carry out your anarchy, your will, and we cannot influence that because you still have, we saw 126 MPs this morning, so you had to introduce a new colleague who was then just found to be present in Parliament. Of course it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and it's your legitimate right, but it's talking about what most people are actually talking about here. I don't know what he was challenged by his colleague and why he tried to defend here, but apparently, the minister of Bogdanovic, who is now a minister in Tadic's government, and before that was minister in the government of Bajram Rexhepi, in the Shiparian government. Also, I don't know what the motive of this gentleman, Dinkic's MP, was, except, I guess, yesterday Dinkic held, or the day before, when he was there, some lecture on their main board, so Dinkic also dared to talk about how weak the opposition sits in this House and that that's why they can do whatever they want in power. So we will always use our right, and you can defend Dinkic, you can also defend Mrs Malovic, who is the minister of justice and who will remain remembered only for signing the delivery of Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal. You really don't have any reason, pal, I don't know what you're even trying to say. Perhaps you could have boasted a little about what the citizens of Kragujevac told you about the Fiata contract, when it would really go into realisation, how many people in Kragujevac would be out of a job?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3301	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3302	So, about that subject you may be able to talk about. And it is not true that we Serbian radicals, I apologize, I end up talking in my campaign – Kosovo or nothing; one of our slogans was – Kosovo and Metohija is the heart of Serbia. Your slogan was nothing. Unfortunately, "nothing" has succeeded in building a government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3303	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3304	By art. 225th and 226, requesting notice on why members of 161 and 104 have been violated? In Article 161, which provides for the adoption of an emergency law, as Mr Palalic has already said, it is important that the adoption of the law can cause adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the country and the work of organs and organisations. Is it possible that what's happening on Kim has no such adverse consequences? Is it also possible that laws, like these six, which are often colleagues from the opposition's instructions, are adopted by hasty procedure, and is it possible to insult intelligence and MPs and citizens in this way? Does the fact that you're telling us this by unifying the law actually mean that a person should be treated in the context of property acquired by a criminal act, which is the responsibility of a legal person who is corrupt, but is therefore financed by a political party? That's how it looks united. Speaking of political parties, is it possible that the head of the DS Parliamentary Group, whose proposal brings these important laws together, is more than 108 MPs who have regularly submitted the proposal for a KIM resolution? Let us return to this Article 104, which implies respect for the dignity of the congregation. As far as I understand it, Madam Chairman, respect for the Parliament's dignity includes adequate dress. I noticed that the newly elected MP, Mr. Canak, is jeopardizing the dignity of the congregation by being dressed as if he had prepared himself for some neo-Nazi rally. The man is in the black shirt of short sleeves, black pants, pretty dirty, which is really inadmissible; it looks like he ate some greasy burek before the session and now they're on their knees with the rest of the hand wipers. Indeed, it endangers the dignity of this congregation. Speaking of calls sent to you, these support telegrams, I have a few questions for you. Do you have a problem? Chairman, please protect me from throwing away this "semafor coalition." So, speaking of phone calls and support telegrams, for you, Madam Chairman, I have a question that practically contains the question they've asked me. First, was the language on the government-forming scale a giraffe, or promise to Mr. Palma, that he would finally buy him a giraffe? Secondly, is it also who approved the purchase of a 250,000-euro giraffe, and will it be the identification of Serbia's new and prosperous international trade agreements with the EU, since it is a female? Third, will the only liquid of parliamentaryism in Serbia be Cedin's zebra and Palma's giraffe? Another note, how is it possible that obstruction in Parliament is done by those who say that the basic words of parliamentaryism are verbs – parlars, which means speaking? The obstruction in Parliament is done, right, by those who are silent and who are making the agenda so that everything that is important is left behind, or given to so-called. It's a twisted form.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3305	I've already given my answers to a serious part of your questions. Obviously, the gifts of nature you possess are such that, indeed, I am not able, especially from the position of the president of the Serbian Parliament, to parry and answer your witty questions and findings. The word is Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3306	I checked in with article 140. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Serbia. I'll read it, I think it's important that you hear it, because it's what you've allowed the ruling majority to put together these agenda points. So Article 140(2) says: "The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditioned or interlinked." We have heard the explanation of the Head of Parliament's ruling majority and none of the arguments she has offered corresponds to any part of this member of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore claim that you have injured, Madam President, the Rules of Procedure, by allowing this vote to be put on the agenda and thus trying to establish another principle on which we are warning from the beginning. So, I must say, the way the session of the Assembly is conducted, regardless of what I may be able to break the Rules of Procedure and say the insult, is extremely hypocritical. On the one hand, you're trying to push the so-called. European laws, but in one completely anti-European way, by disabling public debate, or the most important part of the public debate on each of these laws. You've wasted your time on that argument. Why didn't the Assembly vote last Thursday and work on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday? Then the opposition MPs would have one day to discuss each of these laws. Why did you wait Tuesday for the vote, as the final deadline, and then deny us, from the opposition, the right to talk about these laws? From now on in a public debate, or part of a public debate that existed, it is clear that there are serious objections to this law. It is clear that these remarks are such that these laws, at least in part, do not make them European, but the opposite. I'll remind you that you have joined a law under which, among other things, there will now be a foreign citizen's obligation to apply to the police every 24 hours. Is that European fluid? That's why you made it impossible for us to talk here about these members of the law, and your hypocrisy is seen in that, at the same time, you resent us for not suggesting that the work be doubled, that the time for work is doubled. You violated Article 104 by insulting the MPs, at the same time, by taking our time, and by hating us for not asking us to extend that time. Why didn't you extend it to us? I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement about this injury to the Rules of Procedure. I think it's too late for that to be in voting day. Since this is the kind of injury of the Rules of Procedure, I think we need to plead now. Once again, I will read to you and ask you to take away my time: "The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditional or mutually linked." We've heard from the promoter, none of these conditions are met. The conditions are quite different, politically, and we disagree with them, but they are political, please do not violate the Rules of Procedure and allow us to discuss each point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3307	I understand that you requested that in Parliament's voting day be made known. Oh, no? You didn't ask. All right. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3308	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, I would suggest that you understand that in this way it has been spent more than an hour, almost two hours have passed in this troubled atmosphere. Don't test our commitment to some of the basic interests that we have to protect. You can't answer the big mistake you've made offering a counterargument that we haven't allegedly used. Why didn't we, as representatives of the opposition, suggest that we discuss something longer? Because we are satisfied with what the Rules of Procedure has been guaranteed to us, because we thought it was reasonable to work in the Rules of Procedure in a determined way, because we did not want to extend Parliament's work, which is already too much of a stick in place. Don't test our responsibility to the people whose interest we represent here. These are laws which, above all, concern elemental human rights and civil freedoms in our society. I'm sure you won't feel comfortable during the debate when we ask some questions about the functionality of these laws, about their enforceability. You were told by a member of our parliamentary group what a rough business mistake you made when you allowed what is incompatible. It is true, when Parliament adopted the Rules of Procedure on Labour, that the logical course of the debate was also taken into account, but we are left with the possibility of bringing together what is a prerequisite for this debate to be functional. What does the law on the protection of personality data have to do with the law on the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Do we need the Anti-Corruption Agency? We think so. Is that agency supposed to have any results? It should have results. How can we come to a quality solution if we cannot talk about it? We have drawn your attention to how many large remarks are being made in something that cannot be called a public debate, which is a lot more commentary of those who did not want to hear these comments, which is, unfortunately, the Government. We are offered this conditionality of European integration. It is not true that the adoption of these laws is a prerequisite for the continuation of European integration. We asked the question why don't you return your life to the Assembly, why don't you make it possible to discuss the points of the agenda we want to discuss? Why are you ignoring the fact that before the break of our financial market, that the dinar lost almost 10% of its value yesterday, that we have no answer to the financial crisis? Why not allow a debate on European integration and allow us to help the government, to do it together?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3309	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3310	I suggest you make it possible for Parliament to work normally as soon as possible, by returning the MPs to a right that we will not give up on.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3311	Mrs. Milica Vojić-Markovic, then Slobodan Maras, Vladan Batic and Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3312	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, seems to be showing up here today at the pay phone of the people according to where they are sitting. Since I'm sitting, about, somewhere in the back, you haven't seen me for an hour begging to be noticed. I'm referring to Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I ask you to explain to me why the agenda item relating to the Kosovo Resolution, the June 16th 2008 DSS proposal, was removed from the agenda. I want to ask why it is, because the situation at KIM changes dramatically from hour to hour, to Serbia? Is it because Serbian officials send completely confusing statements, confusing for two reasons. At one point, President Tadic says he will share Kosovo, on the other hand, Foreign Minister Jeremic says it is out of the question. It is also confusing that neither the citizens of Serbia nor this parliament, who has been authorised by the people by law to know – knows who has made the decision to split Kosovo, when the decision has been made and where it has been made. I have one more question to ask. Is it known to the ruling majority that the deployment of Eulex started in Kosovo? Prime Minister Cvetkovic, according to the interview, is concerned that Serbia is not taking part in the deployment and that perhaps we could share it a little better with them. The ruling majority removed the resolution on the continuity of state policy in Kosovo, which you yourself, or the Serbian government, submitted. Why did you take it off? It doesn't matter that you don't mention Eulex, you're not informed that he's down there. It doesn't matter what you might have, simply, opened up the story of it, so everyone, all the parliamentary groups, would say everything they had to say. Put, finally, Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda. Put it on because the issue of state and national policies at KIM is Serbia's priority right now. It seems to me that you are not going to put it because then you have to show the public that you are going to vote, and of course you are going to vote against what is Serbia's interest and then it will be clear to everyone why this government is made and why the ruling majority will not put this issue on the agenda, which is why the ruling majority pretend that these things are not happening. One more thing, so I don't answer another time, to respond to what Mrs. President of Parliament said when one of my colleagues asked why we're doing this now, and so many laws are very urgent. She said that, well, he was the president of our party, the Prime Minister at the time, so we didn't work any faster then. Madam President, I am speaking to you personally, since you are probably not informed either. All these laws that you have put on the agenda so far, which you will put on the agenda for a long time, are the laws that the government and President Vojislav Kostunica have brought, and you just inherit them. You'll see, until New Year's Eve, those laws will be on the agenda. The President of Parliament, your predecessor, was Oliver Dulic. When one of his laws comes here, which he only represents, because someone else wrote them, you can ask him why he didn't put those laws on the agenda when it was necessary and why we were only dealing with some nonsense, a guy – we're ratifying a contract on this or that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3313	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3314	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I ask you to allow me, as well as the previous speaker, three minutes and 47 seconds. A moment ago, the president of the LDP Parliamentary Group, right in the third minute, broke up and said that time had expired, and now the colleague was talking 47-48 seconds longer. I reported for the injury of several members, of Article 140, who Mr. Andric had just quoted, Article 94, Article 104 and Article 27. You are the most responsible for what is happening in the congregation, not now, but in the previous months. Let's not forget, you interrupted the Assembly meeting this summer for more than 40 days and a few days. That's when you had one excuse. The other day, you did not allow the vote, as Mr Andric said on Thursday, but you scheduled it for Tuesday, and now you have denied us the opportunity to discuss every agenda point as much as is foreseen in this Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, everyone here doesn't seem to be handling the Rules of Procedure. We just heard from the president of the DS Parliament Group that she is driven by feelings when it comes to these points of the agenda. First of all, it should be run by the Rules of Procedure. It is unfortunate that the country's top representatives, starting from Serbia's president to the Deputy Prime Minister, are accusing the opposition of obstruction and trying to hide the effects of their policy from citizens. I have to remind you, in a few days, seven or eight days, there will be 100 days since the work of the new government, since it was formed, so we will be able to see what the results of those 100 days of government, which are promises, of those given in the election campaign, are fulfilled, which is the European path that we are going to take. I must remind you that no Trade Agreement has been activated, that we have not yet begun to discuss the laws relating to the white Schengen list, or the laws that you are trying to wrap up in one basket. We're not signing an arrangement with the IMF. Corruption in this country is incredibly high, and you know there will be no foreign investment due to such corruption. I'm afraid of all these questions, when there are 100 days of government, when we hear what these results are, we'll only be able to hear that our Prime Minister was at a shopping mall in Podgorica the other day and that it's the only one, probably, success that can be raised. I ask you, President of the Assembly, to reconsider what you are trying to transfer to the opposition. I remember, in the previous assembly session, the president of one of the ruling parliamentary groups went out for this pay phone and suggested that we double the time for discussion because the topic was important. Of course, it wasn't the president of the DS Group. I ask you to see this responsibility in this assembly, so you can understand the opposition. You're saying why we didn't suggest something. Well, what is the opposition proposing here that you adopted? Never has such a thing happened, nor will it happen if this is how you run the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3315	Thank you. Mr. Vlad, Batic, come in. Answering your questions would be my repeating what I've already said.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3316	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest, that we step out of this deadlock, take a break, to determine, say, five hours in voting time, for the application for violations of the Rules of Procedure, to realize that the injured Rules of Procedure have not been able to merge these points of the agenda. They could have connected, because they have logical connections, points 1 and 2, points 3 and 4, and they had to especially be points 10 and 11, and then go back to the beginning and figure out how to act and work. If that's not the case, Madam President, well, this will take forever. We would have already completed the joint 1st and 2nd item of the agenda so far, and for that you are responsible, the opposition is not responsible. We've heard amazing things here, the president of the Parliament Club has explained to us that we are all here hostage to her feelings. Well, let her feel and feel, her sentimental life and her intimacy keep to herself. There is no logic here, it is not about feelings, it is about laws, legislation, political, national and state interests. We have a witness from the neighbouring states in just two or three days, something that is inconceivable here. Naser Oric, who is for Bosnia's hero, hero, patriot, etc., has been arrested. Come on, arrest some patriot, hero and hero here for crime! That's unimaginable. In Zagreb, a monstrous murder; the minister of justice, the police minister, the chief of police went away. Do it here. You've got a couple of criminals here, the biggest, in the government, and no one can do anything to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3317	Please, take care, don't insult the members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3318	I don't insult government members. I politely said they were the biggest criminals in this country. I didn't say they were thieves, thieves, thieves, etc. One more thing, we had a few points on the agenda that we see as a hoax. We are all witnessing that it is hinting, for what we have ratified here, the Gas Agreement, the South Stream pipeline, that it is not known whether it will go through Serbia, it is not known whether it will be freeway, and even if it goes and is freeway, it will start working between 2015 and 2024.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3319	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3320	It's the law this parliament passed. You, Madam President, if you have no talent or will to do this responsible job, resign, try the resignation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3321	It was mostly a suggestion here. I won't take any of your suggestions. Mr. Nenad Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3322	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, I would like to receive information and information under Article 226, which says that the MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues under the rights and duties of these officials and of the authorities at which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. We all know the government has adopted budget rebalancing. We don't know if it's in the congregation procedure right now and whether the MPs are going to discuss it. Personally, I don't think there's anything more important right now than talking about budget rebalancing. According to World Bank representatives, this budget rebalance is the biggest possible disappointment. The government brought rebalancing at a time when all European countries are making crisis management, how to extract their banks, their businesses from this probably the biggest crisis in the last 30-40 years. How will you get the funds? Probably, as always, by increasing taxes and excise duties. Who's going to take it? They'll suffer citizens and businesses. We will put everything, as usual, on the economy, especially medium and small enterprises, in which around 75% of Serbian citizens work. We are destroying the Serbian economy, it continues. Yesterday we had the biggest stock market crash in the history of the Serbian stock market. The Serbian capital market, just to inform you, has lost 3.1 billion euros since January this year. It's a loss of the Serbian capital market. What's the government doing? Nothing. It's like we're living on an island, like this isn't touching us, like the banks haven't stopped lending, like it's not going to increase interest rates for both citizens and the economy. Once again, the main losers will be citizens and businesses, and the government will bring budget rebalances and build a ski resort. We probably need ski resorts at this point. I want to remind myself of the coalition's promise that if they come to power, stock growth will be unseen, the promise that five million citizens will receive a thousand euros. Not even 20 euros have been collected to date. Not that they didn't get a thousand euros, but they didn't get 20 euros until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3323	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3324	I'm sorry, you took 30 seconds to quote me. I want to say the same about pensions. Pensions are promised to be at 70% of the average salary. That's not gonna happen. We can say that this coalition and the government have deceived the citizens of the pre-election campaign with promises that pensions will come to that level. Lastly, a contract with the Fiat was signed, yet it hasn't been published on the government website, or on the Ministry's website. It's been seven or eight days. We ask the Government to urgently publish this contract with the Fiat on the government site, as is done in all European countries. I thank and apologize for the extended time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3325	National MP Dimitrijevic Milan, then Dusan Maric, then Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3326	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. Madam President, I've asked you two questions. One question was the suspension of the agenda, which was filed by 108 MPs on June 16th. You've given an answer, though, unmistakable, because you don't know that answer and you don't have it. The second question I asked was the withdrawal of this debt write-off law based on basic health insurance. I asked you clearly – what is happening, given that this law has been removed from the agenda, with tens of thousands of people who cannot verify their health books? Where are they being treated? Madam President, you're a doctor. Do you understand the gravity of this situation? What did you say to me? You answered something about redistributing and using my energy. It is an insult to Parliament and an insult to the dignity of the MP. If in this country, because of the removal of the agenda, tens of thousands of people come to a serious problem, how to treat and where to treat, and you answer me so, it is very unserious and not worthy of a Parliament president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3327	I don't think you're happy with the answer to your first question. I can't answer anything else. As for the law you were interested in, it will certainly come to the agenda, but the parliamentary majority today made the order of the proposed points by emergency procedure the way it did. As an individual, I cannot have any influence after the vote. MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Section 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "Proposals for the extension of the agenda to acts which, under the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, have met the conditions to be included in the agenda, shall be submitted no later than three days before the date specified for the meeting of the National Assembly, and proposals relating to the selection, appointment, resolution and termination of functions, withdrawal of certain points from the proposed agenda, merger of the debate and change of the order of the points shall be delivered no later than 24 hours before the start of the session of the National Assembly. "In the agenda we have a point – the law on higher education, which is proposed today, after the beginning of the session. Then, we have the case that 13 points of the agenda have been withdrawn today, the order of several items of the agenda has changed, practically, the agenda is completely too dark and there has been a merger of discussions on certain points of the agenda. Practically, the debate on 12 points of the agenda has been joined into three points. In accordance with Article 84. The Rules of Procedure, a certain possibility has been left, although unclearly, this member is in full collegiate with Article 90. It is said – an exceptional notification of the time of session and agenda can be delivered within a short period, with the President of the National Assembly obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. Here it is said – an explanation, a notice on the time of the session and agenda, and it is not said – a notice on the change of the agenda, it is not said – a notice on the withdrawal of certain points and, absolutely, no mention of the merger of the debate on certain points of the agenda. We've heard here from Mrs. Kolundji three reasons why we should discuss the joint agenda points today. The first reason is speed. You know what, if that's what this is about, if it's a nightmare, we're all 13, 14 points on the agenda, we can just mess up like one item on the agenda. It is then said that it is the regulation of some of the problems in this law and that the laws of the 1970s are being applied. If something was waiting 38 years for the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I don't see why it would be a problem to find this issue on the agenda tomorrow and not today. So if we split up the debate on these agenda points, we're going to lose one day, so if we lost 38 years, I don't see why it would be a problem to lose another day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3329	Mr. Ambassador, first of all, there are no dots withdrawn from the agenda that has been delivered to you. The only logical order of the agenda came together, and all that came in was 24 hours before we started working, so on time. Therefore, Article 90 is not broken anywhere. The word is Mrs. Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3330	Dear fellow Members, I appeal to the article. 225, 226. Since some colleagues here in the Assembly have been taking care of a certain giraffe all day, I want to explain what this is really about, because I owe it to the citizens of Serbia. So it's not about any giraffe, it's about the money that's been allocated from the Serbian Government to Jagodina, for investing in the zoo, because, the gentleman you're looking at right now, I want to tell you that Jagodina is one of the destinations that is quite visited, a large number of people are coming, so it's perfectly normal to invest in something that is a tourist destination. Secondly, as far as the former minister is concerned, it is clear to me that he is extremely complex that he has done absolutely nothing for two mandates and that his past work, in his mandates, is being seen into a hill of empty bottles and glasses, say, or a failed concession, or, we could say, more, stealing. Since he just spoke as vigorously of the concession as a job we didn't do, and it was the best thing he could have ever predicted for our country, I want to tell Mr. former minister that Goebbels died and that his "a hundred times-repeated lie becomes true" doesn't go through with us. In fact, now that I think about this giraffe, maybe he's wrong that he didn't want to have that giraffe, but the man, however, identified himself as sheep, and I think he's very psychic, because he saw his future interest, but I'm afraid his sheep business will go as well as his concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3331	The word is Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3332	I'm referring to Article 27 and Article 140. In my previous report, I asked you to allow the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 140. By misreading what I said, you have now committed another violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is a violation of Rule 27. So I'm going to repeat our request one more time. In our opinion and what we know, Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been broken. Article 140, I ask you to take away my time, reads: "The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditional or mutually related solutions." The draft laws that were united, by the majority of parliament's decision, could not even come to the vote. That's what you broke the Rules of Procedure. I asked you, Madam President, to make this clear now, because the statement of this injury at the end of this session is completely pointless. This injury refers to the very course of the session, and either we vote now, and that decision will not apply, or there is no need for us to vote later. If you think that this member of the Rules of Procedure has not been broken, please state your reasons for allowing this, on the proposal of the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority, to vote. I've got time. I'll tell you one more time. These laws must be mutually conditional or related. If you say there was a reason, tell us in what way is the introduction of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data? What are these solutions that are mutually conditional? So, we see, Mr Batic has already said, that it is possible to connect the first and second points of the agenda, the third and fourth, because they are conditioned together and will bring results together. We agree, and we are ready to participate in the debate from now on until 11 October, but don't take up the time to tell us what we think about these laws, because that makes it impossible to discuss these laws publicly where it is most important. Please don't ignore our questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3333	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Just one notice, I don't have a business opportunity to put your proposal to a vote right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3334	I wanted to set an example, although I see this going all day, why in fact the members of 225 and 226 are needed in the Rules of Procedure, because I see in the media that they are talking about how unnecessary members are. I've even heard one statement today, and it's yours, President, that it's our constitutional obligation to bring in a new Rules of Procedure. Let's see this constitutional law expert who'll confirm what you said. As far as I know, we need to pass a law on the National Assembly, which doesn't mean at all that the Rules of Procedure has to change, but, well, when you try, then we'll talk about it in the same way as in many countries, like Macedonia, etc. Art. 225 and 226, of course, in accordance with the agenda, fighting corruption. The Minister's here. I have one specific question for the minister, and I hope he writes it down, and he'll check it out. We are witnessing this affair, the arrest of Mr. Knezevic, Mayor of Zrenjanin. Of course, this executive government, because it is not the congregation's fault, acts as if everything has begun since the formation of this government, as if nothing had existed before and, among other things, has not been fought before in previous situations, the fight against corruption and crime. We had a case in 2005, the arrest of a mayor, Mayor Smedereva, who is now the deputy mayor of the Democratic Party. She's also on the same charges. There are other people involved in that trial. It's about doctors and people who worked at the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund. We're talking about pensions, among other things, and we're talking about how to raise pensions, and we still haven't figured out how many people have been illegally retired. It was one of the first anti-corruption affairs and a case against it, when it was found that many people were buying pensions and that corruption was the result of these disability pensions before time. A lot of people are in the Smedereva District Court in this case. Believe it or not, the police did their job, the prosecution did their job, the media wrote about it, but the trial didn't start until today at the District Court. I'm interested, as People's MP, in my hope that you will quickly answer me, according to the Rules of Procedure, within eight days, when the trial at the Smedereva District Court will begin for this case I was talking about, will it soon begin, that the case will not become obsolete? It is your duty to check it out, to see when the epilogue of this battle and this case will be known, that this is not about the Prince's running, the harassment of the media, the arrest, the holding in custody, and after that, when he comes to court, there will be nothing again. So hopefully, in writing, you will answer that question very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3335	The answer to your question lies in the Rules of Procedure, in Rule 85, paragraphs 2 and 3: "The National Assembly decides on proposals for legislation, development plan, spatial plan, budget, final account, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolution, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly, in principle, details and in general, in days of voting. The president of the National Assembly sets the voting days after the debate on all points of the agenda is concluded." Article 100: "If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote." Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3336	Again about those in the media famous members 225 and 226. First, I am obliged to apologize to Miss Jasmina Milosevic for bringing her into considerable discomfort that she must for almost an hour record what is dictated by her mobile phone, in response to what the president of New Serbia, Mr Velimir Ilic, said and what I said. It wasn't easy for her, I saw a woman sweating. I apologize for all the effort you've had to put up with. The logical question remains who was on the other side, and who dictated it to you: Palm or giraffe? The second thing, in the meantime, I got a telegram of criticism from the Animal Protection Society, that this kind of reference to the giraffe is a possible case of abuse and can pull various sexual implications, since I was saying that the giraffe is a female, and Palma is still a male. Now that we're at animal level, Miss Jasmine, I'd like to remind you that you've voted in favour of the concession in good time, as well as the head of your party, Mr. Palma. Let's finish with the animal analogy. It can't be said that we and the citizens of Serbia are as short a memory as chickens, because the people say, "There is a short memory as a chicken between two feedings."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3337	Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the ruling majority intends to create conditions that the Assembly does not work at all. I think it's obvious and there's no dilemma. However, not the entire ruling majority, because obviously, from all this that is happening, some parties in the ruling majority are going to have enormous damage. A logical question arises – why is the interest of the ruling majority's work to extend what is happening in the Assembly indefinitely? You used to accuse the SRS. You had the opportunity to come out for a pay phone during today's debate. With full right, MPs of other opposition parties appeared and pointed to problems related to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the problems that the ruling majority generates in this assembly non-stop. What reason is that? What makes it appropriate for Serbian citizens to get this impression of the entire assembly, that the level of the Assembly is completely ruined, that one of the institutions that should be worth Serbia's citizens might fall to the lowest possible branches? Someone's got to be okay with that. Who does that suit? The opposition's not responding. It is logical, then, that it corresponds to one part of the ruling majority. You show it, there's no more dilemma. You've got the backup potential, the ability to pass everything you want at any moment. All the time, hypocritically, in front of Serbian citizens, you're trying to play alleged neutrality, as you have nothing to do with it, it needs to be resolved in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and basically, all the time under the grain, you're trying to bring the Assembly into an unembarkable position. As long as your hypocrisy goes, it shows a session of the Belgrade City Assembly. In accordance with the Law on Local Elections, the SRS has applied for the return of eight mandates of those who issued the SRS. Do you know who voted not to get their mandates back? It's not a difficult question. DS and G17 plus. It's a fact this people need to know. This is how you destroy the Serbian Parliament, you make senseless elections, because you steal citizens' electoral will whenever you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3339	National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic and Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3340	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, I call for a violation of article 100. The Rules of Procedure, in connection with the infringement of Article 140, were spoken of by counterpart Ivan Andric. Which consists of a violation of Article 100. Rules of Procedure? We did not get an adequate explanation for why the chairman, which is why the government's representatives did not adequately explain why Article 140 was violated. Rules of Procedure. As he's been quoted multiple times, I wouldn't quote him again. I would draw attention to the fact that this paper we received from the ruling majority's representatives, and based on which the vote was held today, at the very beginning of the session, is not just an empty letter on paper. Namely, this paper represents a legal action that has caused legal consequences, and the legal consequence is a violation of Article 140, which we have been talking about. We didn't get an adequate answer, which is why it was done. We got an explanation that article 140 wasn't broken. Why don't I say it openly and ask the representatives of the ruling coalition, why don't you tell us openly that this is the introduction of a presidential system to a small door, why don't you honestly tell us that this is the establishment of a party state, because what caused the legal consequence of being called a breach of Article 140 is covered by the decision of the assembly majority? Such a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure has caused what is called agony and which will take a long, long time, until we have adequate answers and until this parliament is brought into line with the adoption of the law, not the day-to-day policy track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3341	The word is Mr. Petar Petrovic and then Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3342	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have been out of the agenda for a long time, because some MPs, when they have no arguments to make, something they do in their town or some merits of their own party, are calling for others to, I guess, draw attention to themselves, and then one of the most successful mayors in the Republic of Serbia, the president of one parliamentary party, who has a result that has recognised the people in Serbia, and that is Mr Dragan Markovic-Palma. One colleague says he dictates to an MP what he has to say. I didn't know that the letter was so psychic or, perhaps, there's still someone in some secret organization who controlled it until yesterday, so they listen to the talks of the MPs, and then in some magical way they tell them if they have anything to do with someone else, so they get what's to be said. I remind the parliamentary group and these MPs that there should be no selective amnesia. Don't forget what you talked about yesterday, how you swore to him, how you admired those results, how everywhere you talked about how in those cities, if you won along with him, it would be the same as in the city where he's mayor. That selective amnesia has led you to this point that you are now in opposition. We of Unity Serbia said in time, a month ago, a month and a half before that earlier government would fall, out of the mouth of the President of Unity of Serbia Dragan Markovic-Palma, she came up with a famous sentence not to pour patriotism into the tractor. Let's not drill into our breasts anymore, we want to lead Serbia a better life, a better path, and we want to take her to Europe. That is why Dragan Markovic-Palma and Unity Serbia have entrusted the group and are with it government in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I urge you to return to the agenda, and the agenda should be these laws, should be a better life for the citizens of Serbia. Let's show in part how we care about pensioners and farmers and workers who are out of work, etc. When you do something in your city where you've been given power and when citizens recognize you in more terms, then you have the moral right to go out here and look into someone else's yard. I'll give you your feathers, but don't give me someone else's feathers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3343	The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. He gave up. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3344	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am patiently waiting for the Assembly to start working, since we are ready to discuss these bill proposals. That we have nothing to say to you, my dear ex-friends, it is true that today the City Assembly has taken the mandates of the committee of the Committee Group forward Serbia And you, son, exist, for God's sake, let there be you for another 100 years. [[Invader from the O.R.: Which doesn't exist.]] So I didn't object to any of those who voted to have the mandates taken. You object to those who were not involved in the vote at all. So in this Serbia has the right to think only of those who are for you, and since those who were for you were in the majority, let's keep quiet about who they were for you, and to point out those who, even, had no influence on the vote, were restrained. Who was that for you? DSS, SPS, LDP, PAPS. What brings you together, my dear political parties, who today took the mandates of the Committee Group's committee forward Serbia, and all of you now... (Srboljub Zivanovic, an incursor from the place: The traitor. Sir, I'd ask you, I know you're rude, but I really don't give you a reason. Okay, I'm a traitor, Serbo, but I'm not giving you a cause. Don't think you can attack me, accidentally, physically, as another MP. Just don't think you're gonna attack me unpunished physically.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3345	Please don't throw Mr. Nikolic away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3346	I'm done. Let them get it. Good, they're still alive. Politically you still exist while you continue this mandate which some of us have earned for all of you. [[Invader from the O.R.: What does that mean?]] For the mandates of a councilman in Belgrade, none of you are responsible, not even for the joy of Dragan Todorovic and I are not as responsible as Aleksandar Vukic is. It's all Alexander Vukic worked 24 hours a day, and you enjoyed it and waited for what to happen. You now know who the mandates should belong to in Belgrade. I'm raising you a little bit of a ton, you dropped something on me. I like you to live, I like you to fight politically, you've entered these complications with a pay phone, you don't see an exit strategy. Here, I'm helping you, turn against us. Don't look too much like you've come to some council mandates. First, it means nothing to you, and secondly, it's your last, ladies and gentlemen. They're your last. If the SPS has to help you, if LDP has to help you, if the DSS has to help you to have some mandates, that assistance is not to be honored, it is not to be proud. The DS didn't help us today. Why didn't you let the court handle it? Let that court be settled, so when the Serbian courts settle, and we will have the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. So, let's see who's in charge of taking a man's term of office, which is the political party in the world, in how many states a political party can take a MP or a councilman's term. If you think there can only be Serbia and only more SRS who will take over mandates for people who no longer want to be with it, so be it. Let me tell you, let them take all the mandates of the councilors in Serbia. What does that mean to you and us? Let's see how many mandates anyone wins in the next election. Then I confess, if you'll be stronger than us by one vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3347	Mr. Nikolic, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3348	I'm done. I'll bow every time one of you walks through this door. None of you will enter this door again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3349	The word has a folk MP Zoran Ostojić, Markicevic, and Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3350	Mrs. Dejanovic, I think this time you will be amnested in my adjudication of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure which you have done, because Mr. Nikolic has brought up some things that, for the sake of the citizens, deserve to be explained. Yes, Mr. Nikolic, the LDP was against the constitution that wrote that the parties are the owners of the mandate, all of you, and Tadic, and Kostunica, and you, Mr. Nikolic, have adopted that constitution. We, Mr. Nikolic, voted today in the City Assembly to suspend the mandates of your committees, because it is in accordance with the law, as it is in accordance with the law that you in this assembly, until the blank resignations appear, you can retain your mandates. It wasn't us who voted for those laws, it was you sitting here and most of you sitting here. So don't take LDP in your mouth, because there are no good and bad radicals for us, but there are good and bad laws. In time, we warned that the laws you, along with the current ruling majority, had been adopted by the poor. Mr. Nikolic, you did not apply to the law when you took, on behalf of Kostunica, the mandates in this assembly. Yes, we were saying that the MP is the owner of the mandate and that it is under the Copenhagen Declaration, which was called upon by the Constitutional Court in 2003, under Vučetic, when the DSS mandates were questioned. So, for the LDP, regardless of the bad law you've passed, and not the LDP, it's the law until it changes. As the council members in the City Assembly cannot hold their mandates, because there are resignations, so you, until the blank resignations appear, can hold your mandates, but you cannot keep the Administrative Board, because it is a practice that belongs to the strongest opposition group, which is still the SRS Vojislav Seselj. I must say, for the sake of the public, that we are not making laws here because of the President of Parliament and the ruling majority, who will not allow important citizens' laws to be discussed in place... We haven't been obstructing, we want to talk about these laws, but the ruling majority won't let us. On the other hand, the minority, which we belong to, objectively, also, in this case, is being obstructed. I beg you, the law is the law, and if we change the law, let us change it, but in time we said, "The Constitution is not good either." Why didn't you talk about it when you were campaigning, but only now? Do not take LDP, there are no good and bad radicals, there are good and bad laws. We respect the law, even that constitution against which we ran an anti-constitutional campaign. Here, we sue the Constitutional Court of the Energy Agreement with Russia and make no demonstrations, etc. We're a party...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3351	Mr. Stayer, you've exceeded 30 seconds of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3352	... One more sentence. I'd almost say we're legal if that word hadn't really been compromised and spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3353	He has the word Mr. Markicevic, and then Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3354	Dear President, I would like to, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, as deputy head of Parliament's group, briefly, with a few sentences, to refer to some arguments here. The government must suffer criticism from the opposition, and we, speaking of tigers, or fake tigers, cats, giraffes, wanted nothing more to say than to criticise the way the government spends budget funds. It's our inalienable right and no one here should feel hurt or offended. The government is investing in that, spending the budget, because it has the majority, as it thinks, and the citizens of Jagodina, Pomorava, the whole of Serbia, have to assess whether they should have invested in kindergartens, the unemployed, the orphanage, or the purchase of giraffes. That's all we said, and nothing else. Who said anything a few days ago, or a few months ago, we leave it to political history. We can also remember who talked about President Tadic, who praised Concession – Mr Palma did so. Then we were together, now we're not, what do we do! For the truth, we need to talk. Who said it was a palm tree? It seems to me to be the current defence minister? Now there are political interests and they are together and there is no need to urinate at it. Today, some have found other friends, others are opposition. Mr Petrovic, there's no shame in being an opposition, don't honor us. It's not my first time being an opposition. It's a shame to be in power, not to work in the interest of the citizens. That's all I wanted to say, so many words, with no intention of creating evil blood here. I agree with you that you need to start working on the agenda. It seems to me that the ruling coalition, because it cannot keep its pre-election promises, is responding to something like this. That's us, and myself personally, when we took part in the president's consultations, we always spoke. So we're looking, and it's our right as an opposition to publish a contract with Fiat. If that's how you talked, there are no citizens of Serbia who will be against it. We ask that, as the first item of the agenda, the budget rebalance and that those pensions be paid, or increased, if possible, until the euro reaches a hundred dinars, then don't give them anything, until they collect the gas, so you don't take them in advance, of course, I mean the pensioners. That's all I wanted to say, culturally and nicely, and you can be as angry as you want. We know who praised Concession the most in our myths, then we liked it, as we still do, because we think it's a job of vital importance for Serbia. What you've changed your mind is your right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3355	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply surprising that someone is asking the question – what is leading someone and what are the reasons for them to vote in accordance with the Constitution and the law. I suppose it is the obligation of every living man, especially those who have the opportunity to decide on something, such as the councils of municipalities, or MPs in the Serbian Parliament. I guess it's imperative to respect the Constitution and the law. That he is, unfortunately, in violation, it is now another matter, but at any rate it should be respected. That's what's done. These are also the only motives that led the council members in the Belgrade City Assembly to vote to withdraw their mandate, as this is in line with the Constitution and the law. As for the promise of public bowing, I don't think anyone in Serbia believes those promises, or who made that promise anymore. If there are merits for 2008, 2007, 2006, 2004. etc., some of us before, there is a year for which no one can say that he contributed to any single gesture, which is 1991, when Vojislav Seselj was the only SRS MP elected in the extraordinary elections for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not that he did not bow to him, but betrayed him, at the most difficult time possible. As for the relationship, what will and how, well, we had a chance to hear about it Thursday, it's no longer a secret. Tomislav Nikolic offered the Boris Tadic coalition in Kikinda, and in public, all the newspapers published it. Who do you think you're cheating on and lying, Serbian citizens? Whoever allowed you to steal a mandate in the Serbian Parliament and keep some seats on boards, does it not for you, but for yourself, suits him. The moment you get the chance, well, you're gonna get rocked like a mature midwife, well, who loves with traitors. When you betray us, well, you betray them and everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3357	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want you to, in accordance with the article. In 225 and 226, I give one real piece of information and, as soon as possible, explain to the Serbian public what it is, because it is already tired of these daily bickerings, fighting for mandates, etc. I ask you to understand that I am not rooting for those who stayed in the SRS Group, nor for those who have left. It's their internal matter and I'm not getting involved in it, but I just want it to be understood, no one has been taken from the Belgrade City Assembly today. A session of the Belgrade City Assembly today found resignations for a number of council members. Legal papers, three documents each had -- resignation, contract with the SRS, authority for the president of the SRS to activate them. Please, it's in accordance with the law. It's just a figure of speech. That is the only reason, since there was a question – what binds us. Nothing, we're bound by the law. That is the only reason and we will always do so when it comes to law enforcement, no different, and we do not want to interfere in these relations between one side and the other. I want you and the public to understand that the mandate is not taken away, but the resignation has been established, the paper is legal. If it was here, and there was a lot of controversy about it, we would have done the same thing. That's the only reason I answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3359	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Member 225 - the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. I inform all MPs that the recent SRS member Tomislav Nikolic has offended and injured thousands and thousands of activists who have worked for him, for the presidential campaign, for the local elections and for the mayor, Aleksandr Vukic, and for all those officials at lower levels, municipal committees, city committees and local committees, who have worked day and night to be in the position he is in today. On this occasion, I would like to warn them that they understand the difference between that Tomislav Nikolic, before the formation of his parliamentary group, and this one after its formation. Mr. Nikolic, I can't be your son, not at all, because I wouldn't allow it, my father wouldn't betray me or steal me, ever. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mr. Nikolic, if this is how you're going to thank the activists who worked for all of you and us and so steal them, take what is theirs and keep here, the lessons, the message that we need to stay a little longer alive is, absolutely, clear. I hereby inform all MPs that Tomislav Nikolic has thanked all activists who participated in the election campaign. One more very important thing, don't identify with Alexander Wolfich. Mr. Vukic is a moral man for you, although he made the decision he made, he returned the mandate to the SRS, unlike you. So, what's important is that you don't stand in defense of the "yellow company" in the City Assembly and that you don't like the force of the law that you, in fact, have passed, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, please choose your words from this pay phone because it is not like you, especially your age, let alone any father whose child I would never be in my skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3361	The word is Mr. Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3362	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. The 225th and 226, together with the replica of Mr Markicevic's exposure. No one disputes the opposition's right to criticise what they think is not good at the position. At the same time, both moral and any other obligation is to express the truth and to criticise it by telling the truth. When it comes to this famous, let me say, decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to grant certain funds for the development of the Zoo to the Tourist Organization, whose composition and zoo is in Jagodina, according to all the positive regulations, based on the plans and programmes provided by the professional services of the Zoo and the Jagodina Tourist Organisation. Therefore, because of the public, I ask not to insinuate and tell different stories about the purchase of various animals etc. By the way, Mr Markicevic, three kindergartens are currently being built in Jagodina. We want every child who wants to stay in kindergarten to have a place, not waiting in line to be freed to get the right to be in kindergarten. And that you know that in Jagodina, there's a lot of concern for the young generation, as well as for the old, weary, sick faces, etc. That's what all Serbia knows about. Please, from New Serbia, don't forget how we helped you from the Unique Serbia, headed by Dragan Markovic-Palm, when we went on the campaign. Thanks to him too, your candidate won the King, won Raznje and some other places. Then Mr. Markovic's results from Unity Serbia and Jagodina were good for you, and now you're trying to make fun of it, but you don't exactly come across fertile soil with the people of this Serbia. Please stop these attacks. I was present on several occasions, Mr Markicevic, looking into your eyes, and you were present. Please don't open that topic, because in three, four, five days, I'm going to hold a press conference and, based on the facts, I'm going to tell your president what he was doing as a minister of infrastructure, how he was giving money to Jagodina and other cities, and what he was looking for in return and getting from these cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3363	The word is Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3364	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 140. Since, apparently, you did not pay attention when this provision is quoted, I will quote you once again, so try again, if you have a Rules of Procedure by hand, and read along with me, so you will understand why it is such a significant violation of this Rule of Procedure. It is said that the National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or are related to each other, with the decision on each proposal being made separately. By simply reading the name of the law for which a common principle search is provided, it can be established that those criteria provided for in Article 140(2) are not met. Rules of Procedure. Obviously, those who wrote this law, or the Rules of Procedure, and the Assembly that adopted it, had reason to predict this similarity of the laws on which a joint principled search would be conducted. Therefore, by this violation of the Rules of Procedure, you, in fact, are making it impossible to discuss these laws publicly. These laws are very important for Serbia, because they also recommend us for this white Schengen visa. I understand why you're in a hurry, but it's not clear why you're disabling a quality public debate on these laws. The LDP is not obstructing, just warning you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, Rule 140.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3365	Thank you. The public debate takes place in a period of time before the bill comes into the assembly procedure. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3366	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is our basic function, in which, in fact, is the essence of our role if we are denied the right to discuss the law? We have spent three hours, Madam President, to give you reasonable arguments the opportunity to return this fundamental role to the Serbian Parliament. This is not the place where we can behave in this way. So much tragic is happening around us that it is a devastating fact that this parliament is described in worse words than our reality. How will Serbia be better if its parliament is worse than what is in it? We are listening to the established representatives of the ruling coalition asking us to be willing to participate in a debate that will improve life. We can't discuss these laws, because it's our right to be taken away. We have 15 minutes to discuss six laws. The Minister won't be able to explain it either. These are laws that are crucial to further affirmation and the development of democratic institutions in our society, to eliminate those anomalies resulting from this damn legacy in the 1990s. We're not gonna get anywhere like this. There is nothing that we can further suggest to you as a solution that will allow the normal work of this Parliament. The only way not to become who you are is, therefore, equally irresponsible as the authority that this parliament humiliates, is to make peace with the fact that 13 in this assembly cannot change the will of 128 MPs, who have reduced themselves to the parliamentary card and the vote in the voting day. The Belgrade City Assembly was mentioned. In no word, no LDP politician commented or participated in divisions accompanied by the SRS. In all the situations where your political paths crossed, we clearly expressed our views on you, criticised you, and very clearly showed you trust, support, and by this we differ from every other party in the Assembly. We did not go to the elections, Mr Nikolic, with a message – vote for us so that the SRS and Tomislav Nikolic would not come to power. We went with one vision, which we asked for support. Today we faced a great challenge in the City Hall. The law on local elections is not a law adopted with the support of the LDP. We voted against that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3367	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3368	Only once in my life did I vote to withdraw the mandate from the MPs, and that when we had the legal right to do so, the Law on Elections for the Assembly and Article 88 of that Law, which gave the right to the coalition to have mandates. When the Constitutional Court said we had no right to do so, the mandates were returned. Today, in the City Assembly, our council members had before them a statement of MPs to resign, a contract with the party and the authority of the person who can activate the resignation. A court-sanctioned contract, Mr. Nikolic. None of our MPs in the assembly signed a blank resignation, because we find it humiliating, not only for him personally, but also for the voters behind him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3369	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3370	We are not who you were or what you are today. We will respect the law and make it the same for both of us and you as defined by the law. Here, in the Serbian Parliament, we will not allow anyone to take away your illegal mandates, but you are not asking us to run from responsibility. In some municipalities in Belgrade, we left that decision to the court...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3371	Will you bring the end? Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3372	The courts ruled in accordance with the decisions we made today. We really owe you an apology if you took any of our criticism personally. I think the irresponsible position in which the ruling coalition has led you, but that you yourself are responsible for this irresponsible position you are in, not only as a person, but as president of this House. Now we're going to try the impossible, in 15 minutes, to start discussing six laws, but those 15 minutes are enough to say why they're...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3373	Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3374	I don't want to answer to curses or insults. As I was raised, that's how I behave. I wish that the whole of Serbia lived better and that's how I behave. As far as these mandates are concerned, you've also had resignations and certified contracts, but you've also had the resignation of resignations and the express desire to terminate the contract, so you've annulled the will of a man who's been recorded before you. So you had something signed in front of you two months ago and something signed 15 days ago. You've decided, that's why I don't attack you, as you thought, but that's not in line with when the Constitutional Court said the man was in office. We, individual committees, resigned, signed contracts with the party, then withdrew their resignations, filed a lawsuit against the court to terminate the contract, and now it's left to the council majority's conscience to resolve it. There's one other thing to tell you. Thousands of activists work for every political party in Serbia when elections are and when they are not elections. I have not offended any of them, there, standing in line in front of Chico Ljubina No. 8, joining the Serbian Progressive Party. When many people come to the traitors, consider whether you understand the term correctly – the traitor. I'm telling you, that door is open to you, and for you, Uncle Ljubina 8, in a wonderful society you'll be, in a society of people who want better Serbia, in a society of people who don't want to hate and fight, in a society of people who think differently from you now. So, what? You, sir, who throw me, when you entered a meeting in one municipality and said, "Let everyone who is for Tomislav Nikolic come out, you are alone in the hall." And that's true. So, I don't blame you for that at all, you have your own attitude. Don't just listen to this sect and say too much about yourself. Feel free to make arguments here, what's wrong with us, and I'll take it, but don't say it uglyly. I'm not going to talk ugly to you, it seems like I'm going to talk about myself ugly. If I accept you as a part of myself in the last 18 years, even you have a little feeling that I'm a part of you in those 18 years. If I'm a traitor, I've led you all to that betrayal, then. Why didn't you tell me in these six years not to lead you into treason? Why didn't you say - we don't need successes on the political scene, you're leading us to treason, Tomislav Nikolic? That's not true. Of course, some I've asked not to speak, now they've got an open phone booth, now they're going to show, they're going to raise the reputation of that MP group of yours. Some are already harassing you, talking 50 times. If it could have happened sooner, think of it yourself. One thing you'll never be able to prove to me is that you prefer Vojislav Seselj to return than I do. You will never be able to prove it to me, because you have come to a party that Vojislav Seselj and I have already formed, except for Zoran Krasic, who says I am now killing Vojislav Seselj. He knows it's not true, but, well, he's telling Zoran Krasic his story.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3375	Time, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3376	So, I don't have a bad word for you, I have an open door for you, Serbia opens the door for you, you take that chance when I ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3377	Mr. Shormaz has the word. I'd like to ask you to get back to the agenda. What do you think we do on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3378	President, that's exactly why I'm calling. Reporting under Article 104. Serbian citizens should also see on this case, they could watch earlier, but often, since in the ruling majority I don't even know how many parties there are, when they watch the transfer, they write the name and name of the MPs, the name of the party from which it is, and not whether it's the government or the opposition. You were just a moment ago, President, letting a single Serbian MP speak for three minutes and let him speak completely out of the agenda. You let him come out here and say he's answering for an article. 225nd and 22nd, although everything he said was contrary to the members of 225 and 226 because he did not ask any questions to the present minister, nor to you, to any state institution, but said – 225 and 226, and now I will reply to Mr Markicevic. He talked for three minutes, he broke the Rules of Procedure, you didn't warn him, you didn't interrupt him, you didn't punish him, you didn't do anything from what you say in the media that you should work towards the MPs of the opposition. Are we 250 here equal or not? How you behave and how you run the congregation, this is a classic example for you. I will not ask for this to be spoken of, for it is evident to all that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and it is evident that you have broken it, for you have kept silent all along while the MP of the ruling majority spoke. The best thing to do is figure out what's going on. One day, first of all, DS will tell you, and already yesterday Mladjan Dinkic told you that you are guilty and incompetent, and that everything on you will be broken personally and on the SPS. They don't care, they tried to destroy the SPS with arrests, then Banet Ivkovic, by trying lustration, tried everything alive, didn't destroy the SPS. Now you have been hugged and stabbed, as a mantis, and you are finished, gone, will kill you completely, and you will be guilty of all evil, while they will follow hands and say – you know, he was incompetent president of the congregation. It would be best if now, if you are not convinced that exactly as I say, leave the chairmanship of the deputy, vice president of the assembly, come out, read the stenographic notes and find that I am, indeed, right for everything I've told you, for the violation of Article 104, to come back here and admit it, to say that you have made a mistake and never again allow someone to behave in such a way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3379	Mr. Shormaz, thank you for taking care of me. You don't have to have a parenting relationship with me and ask me to apologize, that's really not necessary. Besides, Mr. Petar Petrovic had a replica. He called in an article. 225 and 226, but this was before. We'll take a look at the stenogram together. Secondly, this replica was caused by previous exhibitions. He spoke for three minutes, unlike you who spoke for three and a half minutes. The word is Mr. Markicevic, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3380	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, I just want to say that this session, however, is broadcast by one television, which I believe is folk, RTS, and there are no mounted contributions, at least in the direct transmission of these sessions of the Assembly, although there are some mistakes. Mr. Petrovic, I'm not going to go into how you're going to behave and what you're going to talk about at press conferences, it's your right and do what you think is best, in the interest of you and your party. To me, at all, it was not the goal of mentioning the Unique Serbia, or Dragan Markovic-Palma, which I have the opinion I have and I think he knows it. I want to tell you something, personally, to tell you. That time of threats you referred to New Serbia's MPs, in one of the calls for a different name, has passed, Mr Petrovic has passed. Don't threaten, no one's afraid. I am telling you this on behalf of my family and my children, because we have seen you here, as MPs of New Serbia, as a grave threat, for which we have evidence. I respect you as a man, I think we've met in private, and I wish you all the best, every citizen of Serbia, every Serb and every Jagodinian, and every honor to everyone for what he's done for this country and for his municipality. I'm not going to challenge my efforts and work, just don't threaten. That time when your party, as it was called then, did so, I firmly believe, regardless of what, as an opposition, we have criticism of the current ruling coalition, of the degree of democracy, of the degree of security of citizens, as I know it believes both DS and G17, regardless of what is on this side, that time when your late leader led that party has passed. Don't threaten a Serb, I'm not afraid, Mr Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3381	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3382	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really like to ask you, I am advocating Article 101. Rules of Procedure. I would like to replicate, as always, cumulatively, given that several representatives mentioned the SPS, first of all, opposition parties. Also, for civil reasons and for home education, please those who mention the deputy head of the SPS Group - Unique Serbia to bring out the criticisms they have at either the press conference, or this speaker, but at the moment when Mr. Markovic is in the hall. I also thank the representatives, i.e. to the DSS representative, who gave one analysis of how it was managed by the SPS and how it is now in a situation that some mantis will eat it. Do not worry about the SPS, and I hope that you are all together aware of the fact that, despite the fact that the President of Parliament is from the SPS, she is the first among the equal, among all of us, and that the President of Parliament and the President of all of us is here. In that sense, it does not represent the president of the parliamentary majority, nor opposes the parliamentary minority, but rather seeks, in a civilized and cultural way, which is important to us socialists, to give everyone the opportunity to even, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, to express their political views. As for the mandate in the Belgrade City Assembly, it is, of course, not a topic for this pay phone, nor for all the other topics you mentioned here in the previous four hours. Mr. Milisav Petronijevic made it quite clear, in fact, what happened in the Belgrade City Assembly and for us there is only law, which is something defined by law and the Constitution. The situation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is somewhat different and also consistent with the law and the Constitution. Please, really, let's get to the agenda. Give arguments, give criticism, criticise all these laws, all united and ununited points, but let's move on to talk about what leads us forward. If we continue to discuss 1991, how much anyone contributed to the Serbian Radical Party, we may return at a time when the Serbian Radical Party offered volunteers for the Gulf War of the United States. So let's be in the 21st century and deal with the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3383	Thank you. Mr. Krstin, and then Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3384	To answer to a gentleman who is here in the semi-officially, former deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party. I tried not to interfere with him leaving our party for a long time, here, until now.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3385	Excuse me, just tell me, is that a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3386	Article 104, Article 1 - Dignity. So I was trying really not to answer to this man who says to himself that he's a high moral man, that he thinks of all of us, he thinks so much that he wants us to approach him, to strengthen what needs to be a party, but he's not yet. All the time, telling us that, it insults us, muddles us, and, even, harasses us here, from a congregation pay phone. He said we'd rather have him come to the party than Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Unbelievable. If we wanted to be with him, we'd be with him. Since we recognize his tracks, which smell inhumane, we've stayed where we've stayed. I have the right to speak on my own behalf and on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, and he is no longer. He left this house and declared war to this party, daily calls to our members across Serbia, through threats and bribes. Indeed, I am asking certain authorities, although at this point they are pleased that he is doing what he is doing, to take us into certain protection, because this is the political terrorism he is carrying out over us. He's talking about morality. Here he told us several times that he wanted to take responsibility for leading Serbia's country, that we didn't recognize his reform ideas. My people, if I wanted to join something that wasn't the Serbian Radical Party, well, look at the size of this left side. I could have joined any party I wanted. I wanted to be a member of the Serbian Radical Party and I'm proud of it, I'm behind it. If, God forbid, even Vojislav Seselj himself broke the Serbian Radical Party, I would stay in the smallest piece, because I don't know where I would go. This is the first and last party I've entered, and I want to do my best here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3387	Mr. MP, you're talking, mostly, about feelings about party membership. I would ask you to try to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3388	I was talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the Assembly, because a man from this pay phone insulted us. I have to tell you what hurts us and what we're offended at, so you can figure out what this is about, so the next time that man comes for this pay phone, you'll warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3389	You're out of time, Mr. Myalevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3391	Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3392	I'll talk about art mostly. 27th and 140th. Rules of Procedure, by retaining the right to a replica of Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, who appeared on a completely different basis, you will give me your word when you can. So, in the last few hours, we've been able to hear a lot of things from this pay phone. It's not something we should be proud of, but it's an atmosphere that you from the ruling coalition have created. You've been creating it since June, uninterrupted, to this day, by breaking the Constitution, by the Rules of Procedure. Let us remember the suspension of the agenda according to Article 106. The constitution, as you should have put it, so you did not put it, the resolution on Kosovo. Think of some abnormal two-week work break, so you can train us to get psychiatric treatment to calm down. You remember different things when it comes to misreading the Rules of Procedure – all this has to do with how this session is conducted. I don't believe you're personally to blame for that, Madam President, and I deeply believe that the ruling majority is responsible for it, because not only is it letting go, but it's probably giving you an instruction on how and what you need to do. It certainly does not hide the desire to work productively, because if there were a desire for productive work behind it, you would not be in this situation. The Democratic Party of Serbia has so far been supporting two governments in this country and we have worked in two mandates so far to make the Assembly function effectively. We've always found a way out of a particular crisis. It's just saying that you're producing a crisis to get a certain political profit out of it, which will soon show what it's made of. Let's just take this last one for example, i.e. Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whose position 2 states: "The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws on the agenda of the same session, and they are conditioned or are related to each other, with each proposal being decided separately. "That's the possibility the Rules of Procedure gives us. What did you do? You have combined the following points, for example, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Processing of Personal Data in relation to Supervisory Authorities and Cross-border Data Flow, which may have to do with each other, and how they are conditioned and connected, but as they are mutually linked to these proposals of other laws, e.g. Proposal for a law of confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence? What does the bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency have to do with the first two points? Well, it's only in dreams. So it has to do with this to shorten the debate and make it impossible for MPs to discuss in a quality way what is on the agenda. That's what you actually want to do here, and then you wonder what's unproductively wasting your time during the day. Simply, the MPs have the right to fight, to debate in the Assembly, and then you, one of the MPs, think it's the vice president of the National Assembly, you answer her remarks that the public debate could have been conducted outside the assembly session, much earlier. What the hell does that have to do with anything? The MPs are here to discuss the bill. In order to do so in quality, what can be separated to discuss it must be especially on the agenda. We understand there's a need to streamline time, but it's known how it's done. It's just impossible. Therefore, if this is how the ruling majority applies, that we are not talking about taking off the agenda of the motion for a resolution submitted by a group of MPs, which is brutally done today...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3393	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3394	I'll be right there. These are things that represent a permanent provocation, and it is simply impossible for a permanent provocation to form a quality work of the National Assembly. If you keep doing it, I don't care, you do it, but you do it in front of the citizens of Serbia and everyone will know, everyone will easily find out that you, in fact, have no desire for productive work in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3395	Mr. Rangelović Nebojsa, then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3396	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I report to the provisions of Article 100. I'm speaking to you too, Madam President, and I'm asking you to be a member of 100. You apply the Rules of Procedure in the right way, i.e. to stick to his attitude 1. So there's no replica while there's a debate going on in the Rules of Procedure. You can only give the right to a replica when the debate on the breach of the Rules of Procedure is over. It is your duty to prevent falseness from being brought out of this pay phone, and it includes an arbitrary interpretation of the law, and, to put it that way, inventing legal norms that are not in our legislation, which to me, as Professor. Law school, especially bothers. A discussion recently was held on the seized mandates of some SRS committee members, the former. Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear. It is applied accordingly, through the Law on Local Self-Government and to the Council, and Article 102 states that resignations, signed and certified, are irrevocable. Once given a mandate to the party, he can no longer withdraw. I'm sorry that Mr. Nikolic is not in the O.R., but I am speaking to all the supporters of that opinion. If you have already died for this barren and inapplicable constitution and used the stealing of votes to be voted upon, at least read it and apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3397	Thank you. Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3398	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, with my refined taste, I must call on Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because if I were to call on any other members of this Rules of Procedure, eventually, when voted, sanctions could be dangerous for you, and I don't want to. I think you're having a bad time running this session and you're tending to do it, and it's not an accident. It's not Hope Kolundji's fault, don't get me wrong, she suggested something by her feelings, but the problem is that your service is in charge of applying the Rules of Procedure, not interpreting other people's feelings. Indeed, there are incompatible things here, but there is something that is happening for the first time in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, which is that a joint principled search is brought together with a single search. That's never been done before. We have, even, the reverse variant, in that other variant of joining the agenda dots. Let's get this straight right now. Everyone in this country is aware that the question of KIM, state-law status, is probably issue number one. Question number two, which has been imposed for the past 10 days, is the financial market and banks. We were roasted by a snake, and we had Dafina and the Horse, and you know how it went. Then we have a situation where there's been a break in the financial market in the United States, and I'm just surprised Cvetkovic didn't propose that Dinkic go take care of it there. He would've done it effectively, expert man. This is the only parliament where not even KIM is talked about, not to mention the financial market and the losses, what they are in one day, but all sorts of things are collected, so it is still possible for individual viewers, citizens of Serbia, who have not paid for the TV subscription, who want to be present in the hall, come out here and start to smart, have the drive of smartness, the former right hand, and are still angry with MPs. Then we have a situation that Serbian President Boris Tadic, he blames everything, arrests the mayor for something the public doesn't know, maybe he doesn't need to know, that's what the judiciary needs to know, and here are the thieves, stealing the citizens' election will. Please, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Mr. Jovanovic is absolutely right. Based on 200 and a few thousand votes, I don't know how many, you gave him 15 minutes for six or seven laws. You stole 500 or 600,000 votes from us. With what? Said the man that there were resignations, said the man that ripped his resignations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3399	Mr. Krasic, you speak 20 seconds longer than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3400	Excuse me, please, for these 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3401	I didn't mean to interrupt you in the heat of the debate. MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I will call on Article 104 of Article 2, although I do not feel the need to tell you, given that you and the lady who is changing you in your absence allow Tomislav Nikolic today, it seems to me, for the fifth time, to go out for a pay phone without mentioning, nor are you warning him, by which member of the Rules of Procedure to appear. You allow him to hold a citizen here, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a lecture, to teach us lessons. I don't think you can let that happen and that it's obvious that you support everything he's done. As for Tomislav Nikolic and the way he addressed the MPs of the SRS, I think at the very least, I can ask him not to speak to the SRS anymore, because that's the end of the story. That's how crowded he is, I can tell him about the community I come from, it's the Odjaks municipality. The SRS won 45% of the vote there. I guarantee here in front of Serbian citizens that the Odzak Municipal Committee will be the first where the SRS will cross 50% in the next election without its supporters...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3403	Mr. MP, you're informing us of the intrapartial analysis. I'd like to work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3404	Mrs. Djukic, did you warn Tomislav Nikolic while he was at the pay phone, and he spoke for four and a half minutes? I'm sorry there's no Tomislav Nikolic in the O.R., to remind him that he's a construction worker by profession, Mrs. Jorgenka's head, but I'm sure he didn't work in the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3405	You've been over three minutes for 15 seconds. As I warned Mr. Nikolic, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3406	I'm done. Just one more sentence. If he had worked in the profession, he would have known that he had laid the foundation for the SRS by Dr Vojislav Seselj and that these were the foundations that could carry two million voters at any moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3407	Mr. MP, you asked me why I didn't warn Mr. Nikolic. As I warned you, I warned him. As soon as it was three minutes ago, I warned him. The content of your address to Serbia, to the detriment of expectations of this session, is very similar. The word is Mr. Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I just want to inform you that on Friday, October 3rd, the euro course was 76.68 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3409	Excuse me, just tell us which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3410	Article 226. I'm looking for information on what the government is doing? On Monday, October 6, yesterday, 77.65 dinars, on Tuesday, October 7th, today – 79.17 dinars and we have just received information that tomorrow's course is 80,035 dinars. Growth relative to Friday, so for these three or four days is 4.2%. What's the government doing? I'm looking for an explanation from the government, asking for information on what they do? Instead of reducing public spending, these budget rebalances increase public spending. This is today's nonsens, not just in Europe, this is notsens in the world. We have the most autistic government in the world. I just want to say that this government is dealing with, its priorities are exclusively meeting the appetite of parties, such as raising pensions to a crazy level of 70% of salary, Corridor 10, ski resorts, etc. I ask this government to explain whether, like all European countries, like other countries in the world, both in America and Asia, as Russia, they will take action to protect our market? They probably won't, 'cause they're not even capable of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3411	Thank you. Proposer representative, minister, Mrs. Snezana Malovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3412	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to present to you the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, prepared by the Ministry of Justice. At the very beginning, I would like to point out to you the importance of these laws, primarily in creating a normative environment for the protection of personal data, on the one hand, and to effectively combat organised crime and corruption, on the other hand. Also, these laws are very important in the process of joining our country's EU, harmonising our country's rules with EU regulations, and are particularly important for visa waivers for Serbian citizens for EU countries. Highlighted experts from the area governed by these laws participated in all these draft laws. A number of round tables have been organised, and since the end of last year, all these laws have been held in public debate. Also, experts from prominent experts of the Council of Europe and the European Commission have been provided. At the beginning, I would like to present to you a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data and, in this respect, a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow. The new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 42, guaranteed protection of personal data. Currently in the Republic of Serbia, the 1998 Personality Data Protection Act, which was adopted at the time of the existence of the SRJ, is applied as a regulation of the Republic of Serbia, is being applied in this area. This law was passed on the basis of Council of Europe Convention No 108, on the protection of persons against the automatic processing of personality data from 1971, which was ratified in our country in 1992. However, this law did not realise the requirements of Directive 9546 of the European Parliament, which is considered a basic international document in this area. Also, because of the transfer of competences from the federal authorities to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the relevant regulations did not specify a state body that would assume the power to exercise rights under that law, which in fact means that protection under that law could not be achieved in practice. For these reasons, it is necessary to adopt a new law on the protection of personal data to regulate this right, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and international standards, on the other. Of the most significant solutions contained in the bill, I would like to point out that it accurately regulates the conditions for the processing of personal data, the rights of the person in relation to the processing of personal data, the procedure for protecting the rights of the person and the release of data from the Republic of Serbia. The bill stipulates that citizens have certain rights in relation to the processing of personality data. These are the right to notification of processing, the right to see data, the right to copy and the right to have insights carried out, such as correction, updating or erasure of data. According to the draft law, the central authority dealing with the protection of personal data is the Commissioner for Public Information, whose jurisdiction has also been extended to the tasks of supervision of the application of this law. In particular, I would point out that the solutions made by the Commissioner in the appeal procedure are final and binding for all, and that, if necessary, their execution is ensured by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The decision from the bill where the same body is responsible for protecting the right to access information free from public importance and the right to protection of personal data is also known in parallel legislation, as is the case in Slovenia or Austria. We believe that such a solution is complete, for the same authority will be able to appreciate what is more difficult, whether the right of the public to know certain information or the right of an individual to protection of privacy. The establishment of a body responsible for the protection of personality data is also an obligation provided for in the Additional Protocol, which will be discussed here tonight. In addition, another important issue that the bill regulates is the issue of bringing personality data outside the Republic of Serbia. Article 53. The draft law stipulates that data from the Republic of Serbia may be presented in another Member State of the Convention and in other countries not members of the Convention, provided that the level of data protection is provided in accordance with the Convention and on the basis of the credentials' permission. In this way, it is possible to co-operate our state bodies and business entities with institutions both EU countries and other countries under the said Convention of the Council of Europe. The Additional Protocol relating to the Supervisory Authority and cross-border data flow complements the Convention on the Protection of Persons against Automatic Data Processing by regulating supervisory authorities in States, parties to the Parties to the Convention, or the Additional Protocol, as well as the cross-border flow of personal data to recipients not within the jurisdiction of the Parties to the Convention. The Republic of Serbia signed the Additional Protocol on 2 July 2008, and therefore it is necessary, in accordance with its constitutional powers, to adopt the National Assembly and the law on the confirmation of the Additional Protocol. The additional protocol, along with the above-mentioned convention, has confirmed 20 and has been signed by 13 other members of the Council of Europe. As already said, the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data is in line with this additional protocol. I would now give you the most significant comments on the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and, in relation to it, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties. I would remind you that the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, adopted by the National Assembly, provides that a special law will establish an independent and independent body that will oversee the implementation of the Strategy and the Action Plan, co-ordination of state bodies in the fight against corruption, implement regulations in the area of conflict resolution of interest and control the financing of political parties and election campaigns. Also, the UN Convention against Corruption, ratified by our country, envisions the formation of an independent body to prevent corruption. In this way, this legislative proposal represents the fulfillment of our international obligations, as well as the application of the National Strategy. By passing that law, some of the country's mandatory recommendations to combat corruption in the Council of Europe, a body known as GRECO, will also be met. Article 6 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates the ban on conflicts of interest and stipulates that the resolution of conflicts of interest is governed by the Constitution and the law, which is also the legal basis for the adoption of a draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. The most significant provisions of this bill are related to the establishment, jurisdiction, organisation and mode of work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, rules concerning the prevention of conflicts of interest, the reporting of the property of officials, and the procedure and decision-making in the event of breach of this law. The Agency is defined as an independent and independent state body, whose most important competences will be: resolving conflicts of interest, keeping a register of officials and their property, doing business in accordance with a law governing the financing of political parties and international co-operation in the field of fighting corruption. It is foreseen that the Agency's bodies are the Committee and the Director. The Agency's Committee will have 9 members, elected by the National Assembly, on the proposal of authorised proposings. As mandated promoters, the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Supreme Cassation Court, the State Audit Institute, the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information, the Social-Economic Council, the Bar Association and the Association of Journalists are envisaged. In this way, all three branches of government and relevant professional associations will be represented. The second body of the Agency shall be the Director, who shall manage the work of the Agency, make decisions on the violation of this law and make measures. The draft law stipulates that the conditions for the selection of directors are that they cannot be a member of a political party and that they are subject to the same obligations and prohibitions which, under this law, concern officials and members of the Agency's Committee. The director is scheduled to be elected in a public competition, which is called by the Agency. The agency will have an obligation to submit an annual report on the work of the National Assembly. As regards the provisions of the draft law relating to conflict of interest, it is provided that the official may not perform another public function except by the approval of the body chosen by the Agency. It is also prescribed that if the official is elected to another function contrary to this law, the later function ceases by force of the law. In addition, the bill provides for what actions a functioner can perform in addition to performing a public function. The draft law stipulates that the official is obliged to inform the Agency immediately of any unauthorised influence which he is exposed to in the exercise of public office, which is notified to the competent authority in order to initiate the appropriate procedure. It is also prescribed that a ban be imposed on the official who, within two years of the termination of the post, establish a working relationship or business co-operation with the legal person, entrepreneur or international organisation that performs its activities in relation to the function he has performed, except for the consent of the Agency, that is, so-called. Pantoflass clauses. In particular, I would like to highlight the provisions on reporting the property of the officials. The obligation for officials to report to the Agency, within 30 days of the date of entry into office, on their property and property of certain members of their family, has been established. Article 45. The bill sets out obligations for officials, who will also have to submit extraordinary reports on the property, as well as reports following the termination of public office. The agency will manage the register of property of the officials, and data relating to salaries and other revenue from the budget, rights to immovable property and means of transport, savings roles and the use of apartments for official purposes will be public. You file reports on the property of the officials will be checked by the Agency. The bill also prescribes measures that can be given to the officer for the violation of this law, which are the measure of warning, the measure of public publication of a recommendation for resolution, the measure of public publication of a decision on the violation of this law. The Agency will be obliged to notify the competent authority, when it finds that the official has violated the provisions of this law, in order to initiate a disciplinary, criminal or criminal proceedings. In the case of criminal provisions, a criminal offence against this law is prescribed against the non-report of property or the provision of false property information. Given the gravity of this crime, the sentence of prison between six months and five years has been threatened for its execution, as well as the legal consequences for the official convicted of that crime. These consequences shall consist of the termination of the public office, i.e. the termination of the employment relationship, as well as the prohibition of the acquisition of office within ten years of the day of the judgment. In addition, violations are prescribed for the violation of this law. On the day of the application of this law, the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions shall cease to apply, when the Agency will take over, from the Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interests, employees, as well as rights, obligations, items, equipment, means of work and archive. This establishes continuity between the Agency and the Republic Committee, so that the Agency will be able to benefit from good practice so far established by the Republic Committee and, at the same time, get employees with a huge experience in the area of conflict-of-interest resolution. The bill does not affect the work of the Anti-Corruption Council, as the body continues to work as the government's advisory body, in accordance with its decision. Finally, I would also point out that amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties were proposed, only in the act in which the RIC's competence, the National Assembly Finance Committee and the finance minister provided for in this law, were transferred to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is in line with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. The bill does not address other issues governed by the Law on the financing of political parties. As regards the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property from a criminal offence, the existing normative environment in the Republic of Serbia, both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, also allows for the taking of property benefit obtained by committing a criminal offence, but only on condition that a direct link between a particular criminal offence is proved which is the subject of a judgment and a concrete property benefit acquired by that criminal act. It's often not easy in practice and it's very complicated. Therefore, it is a common phenomenon that perpetrators of serious crimes, and especially criminal acts, which are quite certain that they are extremely 'profit' character, to a lesser or greater extent, retain the property benefit resulting from their criminal activity. It is not fair at first sight, and therefore the Republic of Serbia has defined that, like a series of other modern and democratic states characterised by the rule of law, it will adopt adequate legislation, which will allow for more efficient and comprehensive confiscation of the property benefit acquired by crime. Since the management of the seized property is not the primary task of the courts, the bill provides for the education of a special specialised state body to manage the seized property. These specialised bodies exist in many European Union countries, such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Great Britain or Ireland, and have shown very good results in the work so far, justifying the reasons for their establishment. The adoption of the proposed law would achieve satisfaction with the rules that no one can retain the property benefit obtained by committing the crime, and would also provide significant resources for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, since the seized property, in order to preserve its value, would be managed by a specialised state body. The bill also stipulates that a special unit dealing with the financial investigation is being educated within the framework of the MUP, which, in co-operation with the competent state prosecutor, would work on the detection and temporary confiscation of criminal property. The reason for the proposed law is also that the European Partnership for Serbia, adopted by the European Union, in order to join our country, provides for a short-term priority to improve legislation and strengthen the capacity to take away the property benefit obtained by criminal acts. I'd like to point out that they're Article 2. The bill provides for certain crimes to which the provisions of this law can be applied, which are, above all, crimes with elements of organised crime, individual crimes against the economy, against humanity, and against official duty, such as crimes against corruption. In Article 3. The draft laws are specified basic terms, the concept of property, defined in accordance with the international standards contained in the international conventions that our country has ratified. After that, one of the key concepts of this law was given, and this is the concept of property arising from a criminal offence, under which the property of the accused, the witness of an associate or of a leaver, which is obviously disproportionate to his legal incomes. It is about the total assets of those persons that are characterized by the obvious disproportionate to their legal incomes. The confiscation of property resulting from a criminal offence can also be applied to the property of the leaver, or persons against whom, due to death, proceedings have not been initiated, or have been suspended, and it has been found, in a criminal proceedings against other persons, that, together with him, he has committed a criminal act which constitutes the basis for the confiscation of property. In this way, a principled position has been reached that no one can benefit from the crime committed, which means neither those who inherited such property. The draft law also provides for a procedure for temporary and secret confiscation of property. It should be pointed out that it is easier for the public prosecutor to prove the origin of the property. The specificity of the main hearing to decide on the permanent confiscation of assets is that the public prosecutor presents evidence of the property and legal incomes of the owner, as well as the obvious disproportionateity that exists between them. After that, the owner gets the opportunity to challenge the allegations of a public prosecutor, which is also in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In order to permanently confiscate the property from both the defendant and the person to whom the property has been transferred, it is necessary for the defendant to be legally convicted of one of the crimes for which the confiscation procedure provided for in this draft law can be conducted. In the event of a verdict acquittal or acquittal, the court may provide information on the assets collected in the process of confiscation of the property of the tax administration, in order to determine possible tax offences or tax evasion. As regards the proposal for a law on the confiscation of criminal property, I would point out that this bill represents a very important instrument in the fight against organised crime and corruption and that it constitutes a framework for the perpetrators of these crimes to take away property which they do not prove to be legally obtained. In the end, I'd like to make a few notes on the draft law on legal persons' liability for criminal offences. Some of the rules of the former FNRJ, which were passed after World War II, such as the Law on Criminal Crimes against People and State, the Law on Types of Penalty and the Criminal Code, contained provisions on legal persons' liability for criminal acts. By passing the 1951 Criminal Code of the FNRJ, the provisions on legal persons' liability for criminal offences ceased to apply. The legislation of the Republic of Serbia has so far regulated the legal person's responsibility as a subject of criminal liability, or as an entity responsible for commercial offences. Today, it is undeniable that even legal persons can be responsible for crimes. The legal person's responsibility for crimes is a new institute in the modern legal system and its existence is necessary in the fight against economic and organised crime. The text of the law is in line with the legal standards contained in the following international documents: the Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe, the UN Convention against Corruption, the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which our country has ratified. I note that the adoption of this law is a fulfillment of the country's mandatory recommendation to combat corruption by the Council of Europe. Article 2 The bill stipulates that legal persons, under certain conditions, are liable for criminal offences under a special section of the Criminal Code and other laws. This legislative provision provides for a comprehensive approach to criminal offences for which legal persons can be held accountable, thus avoiding the taxation of criminal offences. The draft law lays down the basis and limits of the legal person's responsibility. Therefore, the responsibility of the legal person is based on the guilt of the responsible person for obtaining benefits for the legal person. It is prescribed that, as the main penalties, legal persons can be given – fines and termination of a legal person. The condition for saying the sentence of termination of a legal person is that the activity of a legal person in general or to a significant extent was in the function of committing a criminal offence. According to the bill, the legal person can be given security measures, which are: banning certain actions, confiscation of cases and public publication of judgments. The bill provides, as a general principle, for the same criminal act against the legal and responsible person to be initiated and conducted in a single procedure and a verdict. The bill also provides that in certain situations, the court may set temporary measures at the request of the public prosecutor. Provisional measures are security measures within the meaning of the Implementing Procedure Act, the prohibition of the performance of certain activities and the prohibition of status changes. The adoption of this law surrounds criminal-legal matter in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. Moreover, current practices in countries that have such laws show that such a law is necessary in the fight against organised crime, as well as that it is important to combat crimes against the environment and many other crimes. Finally, I would like to highlight the way that the Republic of Serbia needs to pass these laws. As I said, it is the creation of a normative environment for the protection of personal data, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the creation of a normative environment for more effective control of organised crime and corruption. I would like to thank you for your attention and to express my hope that, after the debate in principle and in particular, the proposed laws will be adopted, thus creating conditions for Serbia to be placed on the white Schengen list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3413	Let me thank Mrs Malovic, on your behalf and on behalf of you, for the excellent elaboratement of the proposed laws. Do the rapporteurs of the committees responsible, the Committee on Justice and Administration, the MP Bosko Ristic, the chairman of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee, the MP Vlatko Ratkovic, the president of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) First of all, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic reports, followed by Mr Palalic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Mr Martinovic. That's the order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3414	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Malovic, first of all, I want to express my satisfaction that this debate has begun, although unfortunately in what you said in your presentation of the law, we have found no encouraging facts, but the skeptics and dilemmas, who were present, have only been strengthened. There isn't even room for all the bill proposals we need to discuss tonight. I'm going to try to concreteize and sort of unite these six laws into several essential initiatives. First, for every praise is that, after almost 60 years, one area that was completely neglected, the area of protection of human rights and civil liberties, and therefore, for us, was a very important way of getting into this discussion, the atmosphere that follows the discussion. What I think is necessary is for the Constitution to in some way comply with European fluids, that the Constitution and what is created by the Constitution is affirmative of human rights and civil freedoms. Therefore, we are not encouraged by the fact that the personal data protection law stemmed from constitutional norms, because these constitutional norms are discouragedly criticised by the institutions themselves that are in charge of some legal verification and determination of the quality of these standards, not only of our constitution, but of the standards which marked the process of democratisation and transition in Eastern Europe. The Venice Commission, or the Commission for Democracy by right, commenting on members 40, 41 and 42. The Constitution, which covers different aspects of privacy rights, concluded that there is no explicit and general guarantee for respect for private and family life as guaranteed by Article 8. European Conventions on Human Rights. Article 8 of that same Convention on Human Rights has not been fully reproduced in our Constitution. Of course, it can't be your responsibility, Madam Minister, but it's true. If the personal data protection law stems from the Constitution of a defined norm, then it is clear that it is inappropriate and is directly contrary to your efforts. You said that we are passing these laws in order to bring our legislation in line with European Union legislation, but you will not encounter such a credential. It is impossible to pass a law on the protection of personal data and to abandon the classification and information law. It is impossible to pass a law on the protection of personal data rather than to adopt an earlier general act and a discriminatory law. Why did the government not agree to the laws contained in the congregation procedure, which passed the Venice Commission's test and received much better grades than, say, the Constitution, in these members who define the area of human rights and civil freedoms? The least important thing is that we formally handed over to the Assembly the Discrimination Law more than a year ago, which we repeated a week ago; we did only one administrative job, and other people wrote, here in the Assembly, the information classification law. I don't think your wish has been translated into this law, but there are some truths that bind us to a completely different approach. If the person, or function on which the personal data protection law is being built – the Trustee, then we cannot ignore the warning of the current trustee, who is appealing to Parliament and the Government, seeking understanding of the difficult, unexplainable position in which we are pushing him through this law, warning us that the response of the Trustee, where we are building a law on the protection of personal data, will be – resignation. Rodoljub Sabic is a trustee for information of public importance. Our trustee, who is to apply the law, said he would resign if the law was passed in this form. The person who needs to protect, the function that needs to protect human rights and civil liberties, has submitted 15 amendments, responding to this law. We support those amendments. We voted here, almost the entire assembly voted for Deputys of Manchester. How is it possible for us to vote for the Manchester, for his deputies, without respecting his initiatives? I will quote to you only one member of the personal data protection law, Article 16 – particularly sensitive data. Please don't count this on me at the time: ''Data relating to nationality, race, gender, language, religion, political or other belief, union membership, health status, receiving social assistance, victim of violence, conviction for crime and sexual life, can be processed... "and now there are eight cases in which they can be processed. Please, how can someone's sexual commitment be important to the public function that this person is in? How can sexual commitment be important for the realization of a public interest? How can religious or national belonging be important for such a thing? Do you know what these standards can be compared to, what age? It's an insult to this democracy of ours. What does that look like? Anti-discrimination law – it is not there, the protection law, the classification of information – is not there either. Even if there were laws, then there would be, then there would be an opportunity to say, yes, it will protect itself, on the other hand, that personality will protect public interest. We've been listening to all kinds of stories here over the last few weeks. I suppose Parliament will not allow itself from this moment on to become a criterion for the criteria of public life.- I'm sorry. We have written an amendment that opposed it, because it is unacceptable, it is directly contrary to your intentions. This will, first of all, be criticised by this Europe that we are moving towards, redecorating that unsettled area in such a bad law. It is impossible to discuss and adopt a law on the protection of personal data rather than adopt, at the same time, two other laws that, together with a law already passed – on the Trustee, make up one Corps. Only through the full application of the four laws can the area be arranged which has been unregulated for 10 years. We are the last European country to do this job. If we don't know for ourselves, let's look at how others did it, to respect their intentions. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We need an effective fight against corruption, but we also need a review of the current forms of fight against corruption. Why are we so unsuccessful at this? Why are we so unsuccessful in systemically redefining our society, or the state, in a way that will reduce the possibility of corruption? With us is corruption, practically, legal and legitimate form of social life. This is not the responsibility of citizens who are forced into such a model, but of the state that forces them to do so, the state that forced them to do so. It would be good if the Anti-Corruption Council stays with the government, because the Council and the Agency have no points of contact. They should act together, but the Council is the government's advisory body, and it is natural that it is often in part with the government – it is his role. Our problem is that there's too much cosmetics in this law. Who will fight corruption in Serbia -- a representative of the president, a representative of the government, a representative of the Assembly, a representative of the judiciary, a representative of the media, a representative of the Bar Association? As they will be chosen, it is not defined. Who's going to propose them? Serbia's lawyer chamber, since there's one, okay. Supreme cassation court - but it's gone. Still, you know who's doing his job, it's okay. We have one president of Serbia, one government, but what about the press associations, because we have more? Those who wrote this law say -- journalists will agree. The Anti-Corruption Agency should take a major role in itself. In this way, it practically condemns itself to failure in advance. What will be the incentive of failure? That's what we think of today as LDP MPs. If we want to fight corruption, then we need to demonolyze the state, so the rights that the state has adopted for itself, the non-democratic state, the unreformed state, are shared with society, because in this way the community is fighting corruption. It is good that, occasionally, politicians draw attention to the subject, and it is bad that it has become the rule of our lives, regardless of the age in which we live. Milosevic also occasionally went out with passwords and arrested ministers from his government, so we cannot say that this is a time that our community is not ashamed of - a time without robbery, without fraud, without law enforcement. It's a bad country where we fight corruption by announcing it on one main board, whether it's your party, mine or any other. There's not much room to fight corruption if the Agency comes out of our will. Let's get loose. Where else is there an agency that's formed like this? Whose authority is the Agency? We don't have a problem with the Agency being an organ of the Justice Department, knowing who's responsible for the work of that agency. Who will be so responsible that the work of the Agency in which everyone has gotten their interests involved, and no one takes responsibility? What's that superman from the director supposed to look like, who's about to open up this dark space of political party finance? What should this director look like, who will take on himself the fight against corruption in the judiciary, in the media, in politics, in health care? Where are the instruments for something like that? We'll choose them. There are some experiences, in the meantime. We formed a Republic Broadcasting Agency. Did this agency justify our efforts and expectations? It's not. We've formed a state audit institution, they still don't have their own rooms. If we want to fight corruption, let's eliminate the causes, of course, not neglect the consequences, but eliminate the causes. I don't know of any man in this country that the Zrenjanin would associate with the urban mafia. Every day we meet people who other cities associate with the urban mafia. Those arrested in Zrenjanin, what Zrenjanin did before, worked in Belgrade. That's what we talked about here in Parliament. We were talking about crime. We were talking about abuses. We pointed out the places where the money of the "earth clan" was found, the mechanisms where that money was laundered, and no one responded to it. Now we want to prevent such mistakes by asking you to let us help. We're talking about the law of confiscation of property arising from the crime. There's also an incomprehensible approach. Two very important institutions are formed, an investigation unit within the interior ministry and a Directorate to manage the assets to be seized. Our ministry has so many institutions, will it be abolished because it does not work well, or will it be abolished because it is organizedly overcome, and instead will be formed the Unit for Investigations within the Ministry, or will we continue to share those within the Ministry – those involved in financial crime, well, units for investigation within the framework of the MUP, so UBOPK, well, criminal police and so on? Who's the first human unit? Who's the first man to lead investigations within the Ministry of the Interior? The Minister's personal choice. That person is proposed by the minister. Who's the minister? The minister is a transitional function. Today it is Ivica Dacic, in the last term it was Dragan Jocic, in the next one who knows who, but it is the politicians, the people who come from the structures that the unit needs to control. We have suggested something else, that the director of the police, the person who has this law-secured prerequisite, be the one who, through the procedure of the competition, will come up with a final solution and the person who runs that unit. It's the only transparent way, open. Many times the fight against corruption and crime in our country is in motion. Every time the fight was fought, politicians said they were doing it in the interest of the citizens. There were very few examples in which we consulted those who fought that fight, beside us, who were more successful in this fight than we were. When we passed the Law on Combating Organized Crime, we did something like that. When we formed the Special Department of the District Court, in which trials were tried, the famous Special Court, we copied these positive experiences. These aren't good solutions. They do not have a foothold in the efforts of countries that have started fighting corruption like this before us. Democracy and internal reform, with the rapid approach to the European Union, are the only way this can be seriously resolved. We're making a big mistake, especially with this personal data protection law. We don't mind confiscation of property, we support something like that. We support the harmonisation that you have provided for with some international agreements and agreements that stem from this, but these are incomprehensible failures, humiliating the Democratic Serb Assembly. I can't imagine anyone who dares to appeal to his legal right, based on whom he asks the question of your religious, national determination, identity, sex identity, sexual identity. That's ridiculous. There's Professor Micunović. We're not gonna pass that kind of law, are we? Well, even, and right when we do, we're not protecting that person with anything. We know what country we live in. You can't pass this law without two more, along with it. They're in the Assembly. The classification and information law is in the Assembly. How will the trustee do his job if, under the pretext of protecting information from national, state-of-the-art interests, he is forbidden to see into some data, and there is no law determining precisely what is a state secret, official secret, military secret? You mentioned Slovenia as one example, and that's a positive one. We can learn a lot from Slovenians. They have since the founding of their country, since July 1991, to this day, adopted only two documents protected by calling for a state secret. We don't have the law. Everything can be a state secret, and the salary of the director of BIA, and your life and my life, the circumstances in which we are. It could be a state-of-the-art classified information that's not true, so who takes the information, the state-of-the-art secret. Many of this, much freedom is taken away by the proposal for a data protection law, and I am sure it was not the first intention, that this must not be the intention and goal of the government that wants Serbia to lead to the European Union. We have submitted 15 amendments, and we are disappointed that the Government has failed to respect these amendments. We hope that there will be understanding of what we have proposed, because from the government's understanding, I don't speak for myself, it will depend on our vote as well. But we can't support unsettled laws. We're not denying you the right to good intentions and we think you wanted all the best, but this isn't enough. The Personality Data Protection Act must be followed by a law on the classification of information and anti-discrimination law. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act must be fully redefined from within, as there is nothing to fight corruption if the agency depends on our goodwill and depends on the will of those who have run for the agency itself. We have experience with the Constitutional Court, we have experience with the Prosecutor's Office, we have experience with the State Auditing Institution, we have experience with the Securities Commission, we have experience with our Parliament as well. You've seen how we spent four hours, in what atmosphere, because of something that's obvious. If that's how we form the Anti-Corruption Agency, then we've made a big mistake. We compromised a business that couldn't be compromised. Because if our society still doesn't have the right to material satisfaction, if people living in this country feel like they're never going to get as much money as they deserve for the job they're doing, at least let them feel like they're living in a righteous society. Righteous society is not a society that depends on our goodwill, but a society in which justice has its foothold in the law, in the laws that we adopt, which we are discussing today and, of course, in the Constitution. That is why this is one process that was badly started two years ago and a process that unfortunately takes place in that spirit and in such an atmosphere. Our MPs will participate in the debate, and I think we will enter the book of Ginis as a parliamentary group that managed to discuss the six laws in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3415	The word is made by MP Rade Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3416	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226, to get information. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we all know that here, defines the incompatibility of functions and in order for someone to be elected minister, he must resign as a national MP. That's usually what happens. There have also been such cases in the election of the previous two governments, to hold a vote, and the minister becomes an act of taking an oath. In that inter-periode, the MPs who were elected as ministers were sworn in. My question is next. Today we elected three members of the National Bank Council. Article 28. The National Bank Act says members of the Council cannot be MPs and cannot be party officials. One of the elected members of the Council is an MP in front of a political organisation. Did he resign at any point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3417	The question of the status of each of the elected members will be sent to the Committee on Conflicts of Interest, and I will ask MP Radet Obradovic to provide additional information if necessary. Do you want to do it again? Highlighting the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Rade Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3418	I thought the MPs in the Serbian Parliament read the biography and knew who it was. It's about an MP, Mr. Vunjak, since he's also an MP at the Vojvodina Assembly, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3419	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3420	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Prime Minister Malovic, at the beginning of my presentation on proposed laws on the agenda, I would like to look again and, of course, refer to all this discussion, which was led by the Rules of Procedure, which challenged the parliamentary right of the parliamentary majority to implement the merger of these points of the agenda. Indeed, if we want to respect the Rules of Procedure, in particular, Article 140 of Article 2 clearly states the way in which the points of the agenda can be combined – that they are in a mutual relationship. Looking at these five points of the agenda that we're discussing together, we can see that certain points have absolutely nothing to do with it. Some, indeed, have, and they refer to an important and large topic, which is now being reopened in Serbia, and in the previous period, when the DSS was in power, it was strongly launched, it is the fight against corruption. It is undeniable that the fight against corruption is one of the priorities of every serious government, as well as of citizens. All the political parties here had the opportunity to do various research during campaign periods, so they could see that fighting corruption was one of the imperative demands of citizens. There is no doubt that citizens are dissatisfied with the functioning of institutions in the Republic of Serbia. What has been spread across Serbia at this point, what prevails among citizens, is a huge mistrust in the state, in a country whose institutions do not function on one key issue, which is the issue of justice. When it comes to justice, citizens seek a strong state, seek order, demand that what is obtained by breaking the law be disabled, whether it is material benefits, whether it is the exercise of rights that individuals would not have under certain regulations and the legal order of Serbia. Citizens are also irritated by citizens by political parties and representatives of the executive government, asking MPs for the state to function, to see both order and legality and all that adorns a serious and orderly state. This is the state Serbia wants us all to create. We, to the most extent, as the party that led the country in the previous two governments, have started processes in the fight against corruption, no one in Serbia can dispute that. Of course, in this regard, we welcome every step that seeks to curb corruption in Serbia at all levels. The most important issue is restoring citizens' trust in the country. In this sense, today we have as the subject of debate before the National Assembly a series of laws that should contribute to efficiency in the fight against corruption, to revive individual institutions of the state, to form new ones that should make such a contribution. It is one of the institutions foreseen here, which is being formed, which was defined by the 2005 National Anti-Corruption Strategy, adopted by the parliament on the proposal of the then-Governmental Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, is the establishment of an Anti-Corruption Agency. You remember the discussion that was held in Parliament in 2005, when unanimous support was given to this national strategy, primarily a strong message that the state knows what it wants when it comes to fighting corruption, that it has a goal and mechanisms, through institutions, how that fight is realized. The agency provided for then was to be one of the strong instruments. When it comes to the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, I would refer to a number of things that can affect the fight against corruption not being effective. There are a number of outstanding issues, a number of issues that can create serious problems in application and that can significantly reduce the effects of the fight against corruption in the coming period. The first important question that is asked is whether one person, regardless of what qualifications he has, how much experience he has in fighting corruption, in applying rights, social reputation, can get so much authority that all the measures this agency has, and jurisdiction, apply? We're talking about an agency organ called the Director. We had a very important body in the previous period, it is the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, which was formed under the Law adopted in 2004. Only the adoption of the Law and the establishment of the Committee is a strong step towards combating corruption and combating conflicts of interest. The committee was a collective body and this committee played an important, pioneering role, and it produced a very large result in this matter, in accordance with the powers it had, under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the exercise of public functions. We can't say that he, as a collective body, worked well, more people, with more experience, from more institutions, could give certain suggestions for a proposal of certain measures when there was a conflict of interest. Now, the Agency has two organs, of which the collective body here has been discussed, is that how it should be formed? We don't think we should. Of all these institutions that are proposing individual members, it all comes down to a body that solves in a second-degree appeal procedure, and that initiative on determining the facts when corruption occurred, the conflict of interest, it comes down to the director, the one person and the service it forms. We believe that a man of this importance and great law cannot put into life. First principled remark. Of course, there is a series of things that can in practice lead to problems. If the government has already proposed that the director be elected in the competition and if this solution is obtained by the majority, why is the deputy director not elected in the competition, if he has the same powers as the director, in the event of his prevention? We have seen today, the Guardian of Citizens has proposed his deputies, elected here, in the National Assembly, and now a man who has so much authority to enter into huge questions and human rights, appoints his deputy directly, and he, in the event of his prevention, has all these powers. The National Assembly should choose this man or, at the very least, to choose in a public competition. There's a few things here that don't make sense. Article 30 – performing functions in a political party, says: "The functioner can function in a political party and participate in its activities to the extent that it does not endanger the exercise of public office and if it is not prohibited by law", and then, in the last position, "The Funkcioner is always obliged to give an unequivocally to the speakers and the public whether it represents the position of the authority in which the political party is acting in a public capacity or position". Since the law does not separate the position of MPs, if a political assembly is attended by a MP, under this law, he should say what the position of the National Assembly is on a matter. Perhaps the National Assembly did not take a stand on this issue and he could, strictly interpreting this provision, conclude that he could not speak on behalf of the National Assembly, that he did not know what the position of the National Assembly was. Maybe he didn't even agree with that attitude when it was a vote. That would violate this provision of the proposed law. Secondly, we believe that there are some provisions of the laws that put a large number of people in an unequal position. I shall specify Article 49: "The Agency shall verify the timely submission of the Report and the accuracy and completeness of the data". Item 2: "The Agency shall verify the accuracy of the data from the Report according to the annual plan of verifications for a number of officials and categories of officials". Why not all the officials? Why is the director making a selection of officials to do a data check? It's his jurisdiction. Why is such a provision defined and placed in the position of the Director to choose the officials he will control, and individual officials, under this provision of Article 49, do not have to control? These are some things that need to be clarified. I believe the Honorable Minister Malovic will come out and answer those questions. When it comes to the reporting of assets and the emergency reporting of assets, Article 46 states that certain categories of officials are not obliged to submit a report on assets defined in Article 45. I'm talking about an emergency report. Why the difference is not clear. Regardless of their lack of compensation in certain institutions where officials are, it is not necessary to enter into the beginning that difference between the officials and to create doubt that there are officials who are privileged and officials who are not. In addition to these key and principle issues, we believe that they are not well defined, it simply shows that it can create problems in practice, those provisions that regulate the issue of performing certain tasks of officials. This is defined in Article 31 - Doing other work and action. Great authority shall be given to the Director to determine whether individual officials may or may not carry out certain activities. Why is such a discretionary right given to the director without him having any great obligation to explain such a decision? Notwithstanding the fact that the proposed national anti-corruption strategy is intended for the establishment of the Agency, and we, as a party, have supported this, believe that individual solutions in the proposal for a Anti-Corruption Agency Act are not good and that they can create serious problems in application if they do not correct the amendment. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted a number of amendments and I believe that the representatives of the Government, in a discussion on amendments, will be willing to look at what we have presented, and our MPs will very constructively discuss these issues. As far as the other laws are concerned, my colleagues will say more about them in principle. I would just like to say that there remains one dilemma in the legal theory – the law on legal persons' liability for crimes. It's just that there's a feeling that the criminal-legal theory of that matter hasn't discussed enough. All the lawyers who have had the opportunity to meet with colleagues who are seriously considering this issue, which is a newspaper in our legal system, which we are introducing through one law, which is important, is anti-corruption, but it has the impression that it has not been sufficiently searched in the legal theory. We have some data that in certain countries, e.g. in France, many proceedings have not ended and that the application of this law has not given effect. The question arises, was it not simpler for the person responsible in the legal face to be responsible for the crime, if it was done, regardless of what the property effect had on the legal person himself? That would make it clearer and more concrete. That kind of responsibility has always been personalised in the Serbian legal system. The intention itself is not bad, but it came too fast, without more serious and longer public debate. As for the law on the confiscation of property arising from the criminal act, it is undeniable that it is an anti-corruption law, but there are some topics which I assume the esteemed minister will give an answer, which is that in several provisions mention that the debate on the procedures launched, whether for temporary, whether for permanent confiscation, leads to hearings. Is this a litigation? Simply, the question of the type of procedure remains something that hangs. That's what some principled remarks are. My colleagues will discuss it more in principle. The main priority is the fight against corruption, which we as a party started, which should be the basic motto of all political parties. We believe that with all the measures and all the mechanisms, the legal system that we create in Serbia, the adoption of a new law, strengthening and efficiency of institutions, Serbia will become a fair society, a society of trust for citizens, so that everything that citizens believe they should get from the state through the institutions they believe in. In addition to fighting for the state when it comes to territorial integrity, we need to fight for the state and for order through strong and effective institutions, and that is the obligation of all political parties and each government. I urge you to support our amendments, our proposals to amend these laws to make this fight against corruption more effective and stronger.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3421	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3422	Very short. Since we pointed out today a violation of Article 27 in relation to Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to a regular and extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and it is known that Article 106, since a member of the Rules of Procedure cannot quote in this regard, will quote Article 106 again. The first regular session starts in March, and the second regular session begins on the first working day of October. A regular session cannot last longer than 90 days. It is clear that today's story of the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 106, is not stated enough to go to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's website, from which this is downloaded and where it is beautifully written, with the Archives of Assembly Activity – the Last Session, the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, is the title, on the side of the brackets, the dates, which began in 25.9.2008, ended in 7.10.2008. As far as I know I'm counting my days on Sunday, Sunday's working days, it's just impossible that October 7th was before the first day of work in October, when it had to begin a regular session in the sense of Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, I repeat, as then, I think this injury is necessary to plead in the voting day, because some rational and logical response on the side of the chair can't even win.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3423	The prominent violation of the Rules of Procedure refers to today's voting day. I don't know if the MP expects anything from the data on the National Assembly website except that we had a day to vote today. National MP Dragan Shormaz insists that an integral part of the session is a day for voting. A voting day, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is scheduled and the session is closed at the end of the voting day. It's the only link to the session during the emergency session. Do the MPs intend to report for this member's injury or to earn? The word has been issued by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Government, Madam Minister, in front of Parliament, a set of laws are very important for fighting corruption and crime, as well as for some other laws. Once again, at the beginning of the presentation, I have to point out that this is, indeed, incompatible and that not all of these points of the agenda should have been combined. However, New Serbia MPs will try to make sure that, through many amendments submitted by this parliamentary group, they point out all the shortcomings in legal provisions and try to fix something, that, eventually, we all do something together in the fight against corruption, crime. Surely that's the goal of every country. This is very important for both the citizens of Serbia and the legal system of a state. The proposal for a law on the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence is one of the proposals. This proposal regulates the conditions, procedures and bodies responsible for the detection, confiscation and management of such assets. The authorities are a public prosecutor, a court, a MUP, with a special organisational unit for the financial investigation. I would ask an extremely important question here – why is there a Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets? It should all be placed in regular courts, through executive departments, and there is no reason to make and pile one such apparatus, to make a special directorate, to expose the population of Serbia to costs through the budget. There's no reason for a new directorate, Madam Minister. You can step up your work through the judicial and executive departments, anyway in many courts in Serbia it is the most sensitive part; when a judicial and criminal trial is over, we know that executions are the biggest problem, both clients and lawyers and the whole court. Proposal for a law on the liability of legal persons for criminal acts. Really, we don't see why he's in such a hurry with this law. It is clear that we all want to be in the EU, it is clear that we want to pass such good laws, which can be good if they are accepted, but the responsibility of the legal person is tied to the responsibility of the responsible person and we need a mental relationship for every crime, and the natural person is quite responsible, so we do not see what the mental relationship of the legal person is when we talk about his responsibility. We also have a law on fighting corruption, one of the most important laws. It is certain that this law regulates the establishment, legal position, jurisdiction, organisation and way of working of the Anti-Corruption Agency, rules to prevent conflicts of interest, but I do not think some things have been sufficiently taken care of when this bill came before Parliament. I don't think it's necessary, first of all, to sort out the salaries of the director of this agency with one law. For what? We have the Law on civil servants and tenants, which is extremely clear and accurately predicts what categories these are, how pay is determined, and here it attaches great importance and says the salary will be in the rank of the minister. I don't think that's necessary. I can't figure out why a good law, which has been passed, about civil servants in positions, tenants, is not respected, why one such director rises above many institutions. If necessary, it is certain that it should be evened either with the Secretary of State, and the Assistant Director, or Deputy, with the Assistant Minister. It's an extremely controversial selection of deputy directors. Why does he choose directly on the proposal of the Director? We know that in all state services and deputies and assistants go to competitions, therefore, one such choice should also be made for the deputy director. If it is already a law that is extremely important for the functioning of the country, I think it was a place to perhaps, even, the opposition to make a proposal for a deputy in that body, for the simple reason that those who exercise power and one such deputy would be extremely important to raise transparency to a higher level and to be one common agency, therefore, of the entire Parliament, of the entire population. So in this direction, there are certain things that need to be changed, and we have made sure that through the amendments, we have made sure that this is the best way to do it. So many agencies, so many directors, here, I've listed the Directorate, the Agency of Two Laws. The accumulation of the apparatus is, in particular, related to this directorate, unnecessary, there is no reason and should be taken care of. The other laws that are before us are also the subject of a good discussion. New Serbia's MPs will actively participate in them, amendments have been submitted. The proposal for a personal data protection law has a basis in the Constitution, Article 42, under which protection of personal data, collection, holding, processing and use of data is guaranteed. Of course, certain sanctions need to be carried out. I would also point out that it is very important in this anti-corruption law to point out that the responsibility of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is now being transferred, practically, to this agency. I find that extremely sensitive. It should be kept in mind that there is no legal gap, therefore, that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest ceases to function, and from the experience of the other agencies we know that they are very slow to establish and encounter problems. There may be room to think, too, so that the Anti-Corruption Agency will not be translated into a massive institution, that the existing board remains without sanctions being applied through this agency. I think you could think about why a committee that's just been working, which brings some things out of public warning, etc., is being replaced. It seems to me that we are not going to achieve much by having this anti-corruption agency, because here and now there are some that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest warned about; it is still sitting here and there is practically no effect. It seems to me that the same thing will happen to the Anti-Corruption Agency. So much for this part. So New Serbia's MPs handed over the amendments. We hope that the government will take into account their content, that some of the things that we have pointed to will be accepted, and this relationship will depend on how we plead when we vote. In principle, it is good for Serbia to get laws like this, because it is extremely important. Some laws have been waiting a long time to be passed, but I think we'll have big problems if we accept everything just like this and if you don't keep in mind that these laws are so important that we should also accept the amendment opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3425	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. If not, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3426	I hope you understand what this is all about. I'm referring to Article 136. The Rules of Procedure are an injury, of course, not to you or your predecessor. I think it applies, first of all, to the professional services of the Assembly, because I think the quality of the reasoning of these bill is below each level. I'll show you that on a few examples. I will take, first of all, the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property derived from the crime and, since it is a little larger book, I would ask you to turn the last page and read what it says under V – Reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. It is said that the adoption of the law will create all necessary conditions for the work of bodies and organisations, which would meet the necessary conditions in the EU accession process. Where does that say? Who said this had to, when, where was it written, who took the responsibility? That's one thing. I think that's an explanation that's necessary. The second thing I think is that the great lack of this bill in terms of reasoning is, we need a report, why the existing laws didn't apply. Then we need an answer to one question that can be interpreted as an alternative. Could it have been necessary to amend the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, so, eventually, to pass a special law that would form a directive that would govern that property? Is it really necessary to define ourselves for this concept, where one law would sort of solve, in a way, the material part of criminal law, the procedural part of criminal law, and another thing that is purely status and set in the organization of the state administration? Why is this concept given? I'm not satisfied with the explanation that so far the courts have been overcrowded, so they didn't need to worry about what to do with some property that was taken away, whether as an object, whether as an asset, or as something that came out of the crime. I am absolutely dissatisfied with the definitions given here. In reason, we are not convinced why these definitions are good, accurate and accurate. If this is from the area of criminal law, then I don't see what the point of punishment is. Our criminal regulations have a clear definition and a notion of what the purpose of punishment is; this is what you can't see. I get the impression that, probably, that blonde Tanja Miscevic, in those talks with Brussels, put something like an agenda on her list, possibly, some law with this name, and that went into some procedure and that, at all, there is no explanation, a minimum explanation why we would vote for this bill. I hope you understand what this is all about. A similar situation lies with several other laws in this united debate, and joint and principled discussions, where other than that sentence – it is necessary to join the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3427	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3428	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3429	The reason for your pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the violation of the provisions of Article 136, consisted, in the first part, of the remark that this was an emergency procedure Article 136. [[Heading voices: Article 136]] Rules of Procedure, we can see the stenogram. That's what I said in the previous part. So, Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the first part of your three minutes referred to the urgency of the procedure. Not doubting that 250 of us all know this, to remind ourselves, the emergency procedure differs from the regular procedure only within the deadlines, therefore, for the appointment of the session and for the submission of the amendment. When the law is in the ordinary procedure, by regular procedure, then the president of the National Assembly is obliged to schedule a session seven days earlier, and the amendments are submitted three days before the beginning of the session. When an emergency procedure is made, all MPs may submit amendments until the debate is opened in the principle of the agenda item to which the amendment applies. It is unnecessarily written in an explanation, so I don't think you've pointed out a legitimate violation of the Rules of Procedure. The second part of your request referred to the style of writing an explanation and I do not consider it a valid violation of Article 136. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Do you want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the same matter? You can tell me from a place where you want to repeat a member's injury or not. You want to repeat a member's injury. When we're done arguing, then you'll get a chance to point out the repeated injury of Article 136. We are moving on to a debate in order of registered Members of the People's Parliament. The first reported is MP Zoran Kasalovic, followed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. When the previous speaker is finished. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: You can't, according to the Rules of Procedure you have to do it now. It's just impossible, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3430	The Honorable Presidency, the honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a whole set of laws under discussion, unquestionably, represents a significant step in the organisation of Serbia's state, a step towards its path to the EU. However, the subject of my presentation will be, in my opinion, the most significant – a bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency, with special reference to the phenomenon of conflict of interest in performing a public function, a phenomenon that is regulated by art. 28-39. The bill, a phenomenon that since the renewal of the multi-party political system in the Republic of Serbia, has been an object of great interest, and is often the subject of debates held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, great interest in this phenomenon stems from the huge dangers of conflict of interest and the gravity of the consequences caused by the state and the citizens. Unfortunately, only a small number of citizens and the public have a clear picture of what is, in fact, the phenomenon of conflict of interest. Another problem in understanding this phenomenon is the fact that in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia there is a special law that regulates the matter of conflict of interest for the first time in 2004, i.e. there were no legal norms that would in a comprehensive way determine what conflict of interest is. What is particularly interesting and that we have all witnessed in the previous period is the fact that many people whom the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest have designated as officials, and besides, they were not aware that they were related to them, or ignored their obligations. Indicators say this was particularly expressed in local-level officials, although it is possible to assume that there is least reason to hide something at that level. The conflict of interest involves the existence of different interests, but among all the cases of conflicts of interest that exist, only the existence of a conflict between the public, which implies a commitment to the general benefit and private interest, is relevant for the application of the law. So this is any situation where a state official, entrusted with public authority, favours the achievement of his or her own private interests at the heart of the achievement of public interest, as is Article 28. The bill is prescribed. The conflict of interest is not the same as corruption, but there are obvious two facts. The conflict of interest precedes corruption and in every form of corruption there is a conflict of interest, while conflict of interest does not necessarily mean the existence of corruption. Therefore, conflict of interest can represent the predecessor of corruption and make it easier to reach it, and that is why almost all countries of the world, at least formally, if not essentially, are struggling against it. In particular, the adverse and dangerous consequences of conflict of interest for countries in transition are because they can endanger the construction of an economic prosperity society, political freedom, social and legal security. That is why it is necessary to pass one such law, as well as a number of other measures of preventive and repressive nature, in order to eradicate the conflict of interest in the Republic of Serbia, or at least to reduce to a level that does not threaten the functioning of the state. The practice of most countries in so-called The transition process is the possession of specific laws on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which was the case in Romania, Estonia, Latvia, unlike countries with stable democratic institutions, in which, as a rule, it is not necessary to stress the need to fight these adverse phenomena, since the citizens of these countries have created a social climate, awareness unfavourable for those who choose to act against the conflict of interest. Therefore, the adoption of a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency is an encouraging fact for all citizens and evidence that the state of Serbia has decided to deal with those who are willing to exercise public authority not in general but in the private interest, thus preventing huge damage to the state and to all its citizens. Of course, by adopting such a law, the path towards creating a favourable social climate and awareness to combat corruption and other harmful phenomena in society, while also fulfilling the necessary conditions in the EU accession process. The draft law is fully precise and clearly lists the actions which constitute unlawful conduct, as well as sanctions, i.e. criminal provisions provided for in Article. 73-77, which, in any case, makes it easier for those whose law applies to better respect their obligations and rights and thus fully implements the provisions of this law. I expect the authorities of the Agency, the Committee and the Director, to be prescribed in Article 6. The draft law shall be proposed and elected within the deadlines provided for in Article 80, i.e. as soon as possible, in order to adequately implement the application of this law, in particular, the Agency's competence in a very important segment of the prevention of corruption and in monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy prescribed by Articles 63 to 68. The bill, as well as a very important process of drawing up an integrity plan, which is set out in Articles 59 to 62. The bill, which essentially represents measures of legal and practical nature that prevent and eliminate opportunities for the creation and development of corruption. This bill, in Article 29(1), says – the functioner can perform only one public function, which best promotes the principle of one function – one function, because the issue of cumulation functions is more a matter of efficiency, because there are a large number of public functions and jobs that cannot possibly be done effectively enough if the same person performs them. Let us hope that in recent times, the exercise of one function will be a rule in Serbia and will fully contribute to better and more efficient public affairs, benefiting all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly hope and wish for is that this law, after the adoption of Parliament and, of course, by accepting certain amendments that the SPS MPs will submit, which are closer to detailing certain provisions of the bill's proposal, without incurring the essence and spirit of the law, will receive the general support of our society, experience consistent application in practice and thus bring Serbia and all its citizens to a stage when the moral person for the public will be far more effective sanctions, and only then will we be able to say that we have succeeded, or that we have made a major shift in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3431	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3432	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, you have violated article 100. The Rules of Procedure, because I've contacted a respected colleague before to explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure in the case of a colleague, Zoran Krasic. He is an excellent lawyer, the head of the defense team of Dr. Vojislav Seselj, an excellent acquaintance of domestic and international law, for 10 digs above the current minister and the former and, indeed, he does not need a "woody" lawyer, and especially I, who am not a lawyer by profession or a lawyer by profession, but I am vice-president of the Assembly and someone who and how he should take care of what a colleague, or colleague, does, in this case, and how he presides the National Assembly. So, when the colleague Krasic, of course, is of the best interest, both for Mrs. Minister and for the general public, using Article 136. The Rules of Procedure (and you and that member of the Rules of Procedure have hurt, but I have come to the attention of Article 100, because you have not given me your word at once), you have spoken of the way in which it was written for this set of draft laws, he did not mean that, in a failed, in a funny attempt you wanted to explain it, either to a graphic solution, or to the font of letters, or to the style of writing explanations, but rather to be very professionally and precisely, if you listened to it, but obviously, you did not point out that the reasons for the basis, as set out in Article 136 and point 2 of Article 97. The constitution needed to be written to get this law into the process. He also pointed to the fact that these laws are included in the agenda by emergency procedure and the adverse consequences of certain members of these laws. I do not understand why, then, such a kind of attempt to demean the MP and such a relationship with something more than a professional approach to what is on the agenda. Perhaps you're saying, Mrs. Comic, that we can't answer if that doesn't suit you and that we can't advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure if you have a different view of the whole situation. I have heard on several occasions, because, first of all, it is my jurisdiction, but also the fact that you speak very loudly from the post of Vice President when the President of the Assembly is there, that you are wrongly subfling that it is not so and that the members of 225 and 226 used today by many MPs, not only Serbian radicals, but also from other political parties, can be used when the list of speakers is exhausted and when, practically, we have nothing to do anymore, so who wants to have fun, let the members of 225 and 226 use it. That's not good manners. You claim to show some democracy, which is completely destroyed here by stealing the mandate of the SRS and by the fact that you took half an hour to get some unidentified citizens, who have mandates, to sit here and not on the list of registered citizens. And what if they are Boris Tadic's adherent and support these laws anyway, what do they care to participate in the debate on these laws. You steal from us, steal our time, and now you tell a great legal expert – if you don't like the style, then you complain elsewhere. No, they're going to complain to the Association of Physicians, whom you may belong to, or I don't know who, but you know, that's how you show that you don't appreciate the MPs, and you're the vice president of the Parliament. That's not right. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. Try to maintain your level and dignity, as every Serbian radical does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3433	The level and dignity are, firstly, maintained with respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which is, firstly, the respect for the time given by the Rules of Procedure for the reciting of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Article 100 says a word is given to the MP who points out the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the previous speaker has finished. You can consult a stenogram, I have already given my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Kasalovic and MPs who want to talk about the agenda have the same rights. You received a word when he, as a previous speaker, finished his presentation within the agenda. In reminding and repeating that Article 136 has been broken, you mentioned that the proposer's argument is dry. I can tell you again that in this case, Article 136 is not broken and that it is a question of style that is written for an explanation, and that style does not have to be liked by any of us who read these arguments. Emergency procedure, you reiterated this as an explanation for the violation of Article 136, differs from the regular procedure by the deadlines given for the submission of the amendment. When the law is adopted by the Assembly to be incorporated by an emergency procedure, then amendments may be submitted until the debate is opened in the principle of this item of the agenda, unlike the draft act by ordinary procedure, when there is a three-day deadline for submitting amendments to the draft act. Therefore, there is no injury to either Article 100 or Article 136. The MP says she is not satisfied with the answer and wants the Assembly, in the voting day, to declare the injury of the 100th member by the chairman and to hurt Article 136. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was noted by MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3434	Mrs. Komic, as I recall, you said that this call to a member of the Rules of Procedure could be made at the end of the third minute, and I, behold, hold you by the word for what you promised, although I don't think it's right, but when you chair, there are other rules. I'm just glad you're almost instinctively defending this Rules of Procedure, the most intense, the warmest. But what you didn't want to understand, I'm going to be very specific about the case of this law that I just cited. Why it is necessary to explain the basic legal institutes, the reasons and everything else referred to in Article 136. The Rules of Procedure, then, why is it necessary for all of this to be explained in detail? Here, for a few examples, I'll show it. You see, if we were to interpret what's written in Article 3(2): "The property of the criminal property is considered the property of the defendant, the witness of the associate or of the leaver, which is obviously disproportionate to his legitimate income", that would mean, roughly, the following. You go to Bajcetin to Tomislav Nikolic, see what he's got, and immediately declare him a criminal. I'm just pointing out what might happen. Next, something that will make things clearer for the people of the Ministry. You said the Department of Management of the Disposal of Assets was part of the Department of Justice. In the next article, you say the Directorate has a legal personality. How can he do that? Explain to me how he can do it. Then you say, "For his work and work, the Director shall answer to the minister responsible for the judiciary," and in the following article, "The Department of Justice Oversight is responsible for the work of the Directorate". I still have nothing to say. Is it clear to anyone what the author wanted to write? What's this gonna look like in practice? What's this gonna look like? Mrs. Komic, that's why I initially said that I was under the impression that perhaps it was much better for the legal system that you had installed several provisions through amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, through several procedural provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that you had adopted a special act on the establishment of a directorate to manage the property. You put the word "supply" at the Directorate's office. How can she have it? I took and shortened nine seconds to go to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3435	We'll make it up to you, People's Messenger, don't worry. I understand you're repeating the damage to Article 136. In this statement of yours, you have an objection to style and linguistic impressions, or to the inconceivability of the reasoning, considering that it is all insufficient. The reasons for the proposed acts we receive are not subject to the amendment, are the subject of Article 136 and all arguments are written in accordance with Article 136. The final appearance of the act will depend on the amendment you are about to make, or you have already made a proposal for a law, on which we will conduct discussions and arrangements on whether or not we will vote for some of the amendments, so that my previous argument comes down to the fact that there are no infringements of Article 136, style and linguistic notions or doubts, in writing the reasoning of the bill. Highlighting the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3436	My dear colleague Krasic, your nine seconds is not the reason for the delay in the European Union. The chairmanship of this parliament by Mrs Gordana Comic could already be. Mrs. Komic, whenever you chair Parliament, in fact, you show that the ruling majority is obstructing the work of this parliament. You don't stop breaking the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm talking about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27, 100 and 104. I guess I could say, from the first to the last member, I wouldn't be wrong. It's amazing that you just didn't give Krasic a word based on Article 100(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is not true that later in the explanation you tried to explain, but you are nice, can be seen in a stenogram, said your colleague Krasic: "You will get a word in the Rules of Procedure when the debate is over". What is that supposed to mean, when 31 MPs, or how many colleagues have reported to speak, end up, can be spoken in the Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Comić, your arguments, or explanations, which last more than just reporting to the Rules of Procedure, or more than the duration of the replica, become, indeed, something that is unbearable in Parliament. If you have such a need to speak, give one of the vice presidents to the presidency, come in, nice, for the word of it, use the time of your parliamentary group and speak freely. Believe me, none of us will mind you saying whatever you think you need to say and saying as much as you want. What you are doing from the chair is simply inadmissible and in full collegiate with what is regulated by Article 27 and other members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, today and these days, you've turned our attention to how the MPs of the SRS are obstructing the work because we're asking for our kidnapped mandates back. Of course, we will never stop looking until we have achieved our right to do so. The point is, actually, you don't want to pass these laws. When I say you, in one part, I mean the congregation majority, because we haven't got an answer yet why today, say, we lost three and a half hours doing nothing. I'm sorry, I've been out of time for five seconds. I'm finishing this sentence. On the other hand, the impression is that you personally want these laws not to be passed, because, just when the MPs started speaking in order and on the list of MPs, you again, with your story and your violation of the Rules of Procedure, led to the need to draw your attention again to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I apologize for 37 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3437	The People's Parliament knows, as well as we do, that the chairman is obliged to give an explanation, an explanation or to provide the necessary information that the MP, pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is seeking. That's what I do. For the 100th, I gave an explanation. So National MP Natasa Jovanovic received her word after the previous speaker finished his speech. That's when she got the word. I would ask you to really stick to the prescribed deadline and time that we have at our disposal to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Simo Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3438	God, the citizens of Serbia, and also the MPs, you could wake up a little bit, the same God who gave us the most precious things we have and what we can't take away, which is a person. Regardless of race, nation, socio-economic position, we are all destined for continuous growth and development, from individuals closed in their hermetic frameworks to a person who is an unictitious figure, which progresses every day, in every respect. This personality is given to develop freely and, I guess, the only area in which even God does not interfere is the area of our personal freedom. If God is not concerned with limiting freedom, there are those who have chosen to do so. Not only that, but to usurp the freedom of others, through the use and misuse of private data, and all with rationalization that society through control must defend itself against potentially dangerous personalities. In this sense, the law on the protection of personal data is more than necessary, especially given the development of modern technologies that have made data management actually be human management. The Serbian Orthodox Church, with expert conferences dedicated to privacy, has consistently demanded a new law on the protection of personal data from 1998, given the new types of information collection, their processing and the possibility of abuse. If this bill is the answer to a civilizational struggle for the privacy of citizens that the SPC has initiated in these areas five years ago, then that's good. It is good that a new law on the protection of personal data is passed in order to bring this right in line with the provisions of the Serbian Constitution, on the one hand, and international standards, on the other. If this law is significant in the process of Serbia's EU accession, in establishing conditions for visa liberalisation, it is a famous putting on the white Schengen list, then it must not be imprecise and unrecognizable in its tracks. Sincerely believing in the good intentions of the promoter, the fundamental objection to the bill is that it represents a well-founded but incomplete project. His principled character leaves too many questions open. The reasons for the political nature, no matter how convincing they seem, cannot go beyond the requirements of a good legal system, especially in such sensitive areas. In addition, although public insight has been provided, there is a lack of rights of public debate, which would include in the legislative regulation of the general public, as well as a positive practice of countries in the environment, as well as many European countries, which, as provided for in Article 53 of this proposal, can be presented with data from the Republic of Serbia. The Association for Informatics of Serbia, the Association of Information Activities of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, organised a roundtable on September 4th on the advantages and disadvantages of this law and addressed a series of questions to the legislator. Some of these issues are, since certain records contain some negative data on citizens, such as irregular debt payments, debt, etc., will citizens be able, on the basis of Article 22 of the Law, to seek to delete negative data? Secondly, is it necessary to make certain organisations that keep citizens' data certified for these jobs and apply certain standards in the management of citizens' databases? What's the life cycle of personal data? Whether or not more detailed regulation is needed to bring abroad very valuable personal data from our citizens, which is carried out through foreign business banks, consular services, etc.? Finally, the conclusion of this meeting, attended by 100 IT experts, is that the majority of citizens are not aware of their rights to the protection of personal data. A similar conclusion was reached by the Centre for the Study and Use of Contemporary Technologies of the Archdiocese of Belgrade-Carlovakia. According to the report of this centre, the basic lack of the bill is an insufficient definition and an inaccurate definition of important legal categories, which puts us at risk of stretching, so on. It's a rubber norm. In translation, much is defined in principle – it can be and not necessarily. Article 16 The bill, which determines what these are particularly sensitive data, the way they are processed, should, for example, be extended. Next to the so-called. Soft biometrics, which provide biological information on the basis of which no precise identification of a particular person can be made, must also include biometric data in a narrow sense, given that they are very sensitive data for the individual's safety. Otherwise, in order to explain to the citizens what this is about, it is – biometrics represent an automatic identification of persons based on their prominent features, where, for example, this mark can be physically, for example, a handprint, finger or eye, or behavioral, such as signature, voice colour, walking style or keyboard typing dynamics. Since the bill does not explicitly mention, precisely, the most sensitive biometric data, space has been left for all possible abuses, examples, regarding ID cards and chips. On a chip that exists there is always an additional space in which more personal data can be inserted, and then one will think of uniting in one document a driver’s license, ID card and medical records, with data on all overbearing acute and chronic diseases. In twenty years, someone's gonna say, you can lose all that, we better put a chip under your skin, like some modern tattoo. So far, only pets are being chipped, but the question is whether at some point 'big brother' will give us pet status. Not entering mental experiments and speculations that as the ultimate outcome have the introduction of a totalitarian system, described in the Holy Scriptures, without apocalyptic conclusions, however, remains to be concluded that any legal inaccuracies, because of the possibilities offered by modern technology regarding the availability of data manipulation, can have serious conconsequences in terms of abuse. Is erasing a person, or taking over the identity of another person from the central register just a topic of criminal and adventure films or possible reality? Do you here, in the O.R., know how many of you there are open profiles on Facebook that you never gave consent to, but, in good or, more often, evil intent, someone else made them? Knowing that young people are increasingly turning to computers, the Internet, replacing so far the favorite TV viewing by searching websites and electronic transcripts, are you aware of how much and what impact they have on mounted or psychopathological content that is more than available and does not protect the person who is being watched, and especially the personality of the young man who is watching. The Ju YouTube was filmed beating up and harassing a girl by her peers, and porn editings and not talking. It's just that there's still a direct transmission of murder, preferably some kind of public figure. The bill did not take into account the specificities of certain types of data and handlers. Therefore, there is no detailed provision regarding the relationship with trade unions, according to data collected by employers or corporate management from employees, or for the availability and exchange of information, in particular for companies that exchange information with abroad or are part of holding. From clinical practice, I know that rarely people were rejected for work because, by running along medical records without permission, they found that, for example, in childhood they had a frass, so the specter epileptics or they had episodes of depression in adolescence. The proposal does not regulate and possible misuse of data for marketing purposes, data collected on children and minors, I think it is only in principle regulated by Article 10, by the appointment and status of judges and public authorities, by evaluations worthy of academic success and professional ability, by data related to professional secrecy, by recruitment process and by other data on persons operated by armed forces, police, etc. What about the potential for bank abuse in credit rating and insurance companies, which increase your premium because they found you have a "loss heart". In particular, the need for clear regulation of data processing related to the adoption process should be highlighted, i.e. adoption into the foster family. In the end, but not at the end of the day, the question of the trustee's intelligence, which, God forgives me, is about to be ratified by this law. Even if the promoter had in mind a picture of Rodoljub Šabić when he gave the trustee papal authority, there is much. Neither Mr. Sabic can bear the burden of such legal responsibility on his weak shoulders as Superman. The Commissioner, under Article 44, has the following jurisdiction, quote, and I ask that time be stopped: "He controls the implementation of data protection, decides by appeal in the case of the prescribed law... "Isn't this stopped? Doesn't it have to be a quote? Don't follow me to the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3439	I follow very well, quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3440	If you follow me, then stop the time that's scheduled for a quote. I lost exactly 16 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3441	You haven't lost a second, since the time foreseen for the quote is limited only when the breach of the Rules of Procedure expires...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3442	Okay, citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3443	... and to quote provisions from the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3444	... what the trustee should do. You'd really be asking that famous question about that sports commentator, so, guys, is that possible? Just to be copied and virtually projected into seven pieces, the trustee could not achieve everything required of him. To make the matter worse, cited by Article 44, the Commissioner's authority is ultimately determined, which in particular illustrates points 7 and 8, which are said to give an opinion, which makes it unclear why the Commissioner will give such an opinion. If the trustee does not get closer to the authority, the risk of arbitraryness becomes greater than, for example, in the event of institutionalisation, so-called. advice from experts, which would also constitute a restriction on the achievement of certain other interests, to those of law. Given the political reality in Serbia, nor the declared independence of the Commissioner, as a state body, nor the fact that it is elected by the National Assembly, do they exhaust the need for additional public control mechanisms over the work of the Commissioner. The bill does not foresee the existence of any body composed of experts, which would be a prerequisite for real efficiency. The formation of such a body should now be a legal obligation, not just the possibility of a trustee to meet the obligations regulated by Article 44. The legal advice of the Centre for the Study of the Use of Contemporary Technologies, the Archdiocese of Belgrade-Carlovakia, made a review of comparative legislation, stressing the UK's special legal solution. Namely, the UK has established a trustee for data protection and a national court for data protection, on the basis of which solutions can appeal to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3445	Time. You took advantage of the time available to your MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3446	Two sentences and I'm done. Since the trustee is appointed by Her Majesty, and we will have to wait a little while longer to establish the monarchy until New Serbia comes to power, it should at least consider the possibility of creating such an institutionalised body or tribunal. Is it possible that the only tribunal Serbia knows must only be The Hague?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3447	The People's MP Simo Vukovic has the word, and after him is the National MP Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3448	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, is before us one of the fateful legislative projects – it is the law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, whose adoption and strict implementation is one of the steps towards the successful completion of democratic changes, it can be said freely, our national interest. The G17 Plus parliamentary group will support this legislative project, wishing and seeking to provide the state of Serbia with instruments to make the most effective possible use of corruption and bring the phenomenon down to socially acceptable levels. It is a general place that corruption has been a social evil that has existed since organized human society. It is a universal phenomenon, present in all states and systems, which, again, differ in the degree of tolerance towards corruption, the way and the efficiency of its suppression. The reasons why Serbia ranks in the ranks of high-level corruption countries are multiple. Some of which should, of course, be mentioned – the disintegration of the previous economic and political system, the long-term political crisis and the discourse of state policy, which marked the 1990s and then the extension of transition, the difficult reform and stabilisation of state institutions after 2000. G17 Plus is aware that corruption threatens the rule of law, state institutions, equality and equality of citizens, and as far-reaching consequences, there is also a lack of morals and the very foundations of Serbia as a civil and democratic state. Let me remind you that the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Agency law is an international obligation. The commitment stems, above all, from the UN Anti-Corruption Convention, which Serbia ratified in 2005, and then from the Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe, which Serbia ratified in 2002. By joining the Council of Europe, Serbia has also become a member of the bodies we call GRECO, meaning groups of countries to fight corruption in the Council of Europe. This includes the process of supervision and evaluation, from which in 2006, a report by the GRECO Group, which includes 25 recommendations for an effective fight against corruption, actually. According to the latest report, Serbia has met 12 so far, while 13 recommendations have only been partially fulfilled. An integral part of the recommendation is the adoption of this law in front of us. The adoption of a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency is our inevitable commitment to the European integration process. I would like to remind you that. Six and eighty. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which we recently adopted in this high house, obliges Serbia to engage fully in the fight against corruption, establish institutional mechanisms for its implementation and full regional and international co-operation. Our internal obligations to adopt this law stem from the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, adopted by the National Assembly in December 2005, which resulted in the government's Action Plan of the Republic of Serbia being adopted a year later. One of the three basic elements of the Strategy is also the adoption of regulations in the field of fighting corruption, and there is, of course, the law on the designated Agency. The G17 plus believes that the proposed anti-corruption agency law, in general, represents the establishment of an effective state-run instrument to deal with corruption. First of all, in the basic provisions of the law, the definitions of something that has often been the subject of controversy or dispute have been clearly given. It refers to the definitions of functionors, then what, who represents a public function, or who represents a connected person. In particular, I would like to point out that the definition of a related person covers not only spouses, out-of-marriage partners, relatives on the first or lateral line, adoptor or adoptor, but also any legal and physical person who can reasonably be considered connected. Under this legislative proposal, the Agency itself is defined as an independent and independent state body, which corresponds to the National Assembly for its tasks, which was one of the basic conditions for the essential adoption of this law. This independence stems from the heterogeneous election of the Agency's authority, above all, the Agency's Committee, which oversees the work of the Director, and heterogeneity stems from the proposings themselves for its members, or its nine members, beginning with the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly, through the future Supreme Cassation Court, the State Auditing Institution, to the Bar Association and the Association of Journalists, and if there are doubts about sufficient capacity for independent and independent work, it seems that it is difficult to find a better mechanism for its establishment and that it is applicable in practice. The current Council was a body formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the body was exclusively advisory, without real institutional power to fight corruption effectively. The additional mechanism for the security of labour independence is Article 14. The bill, which prohibits not only membership in a political organisation, but also participation in party political activities. Professional management of the Agency also completes the conditions for the selection of directors, where he has nine years of working experience in the legal profession or state bodies, which is elected in the public competition, for a term of office longer than one year from the term of office of members of the Agency's Committee. The Agency’s clearly defined competences in Article 5. The proposal for this law fully fulfils the requirements set out in the National Strategy, defined, inter alia, that the Agency initiates procedures and sets out measures, gives it jurisdiction to resolve conflicts of interest, performs tasks in accordance with the Law on the financing of political parties, establishes a register of officials and registers of their assets and incomes, and, most importantly, establishes facilities for preventive action against corruption. This refers to the required competences in the area of implementing the training programme and providing guidelines for the development of integrity plans in the public and private sectors. These powers, proposed by law, provide a comprehensive framework for action in the field of combating and combating corruption, which has so far been settled on several slightly powerless and insufficiently defined bodies, such as the Council for the Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest, whose results have been assessed as modest, although we must also respect the objective circumstances that existed for their effective work. It doubts the sufficient capacity of the Agency's Committee to exercise in an efficient manner the prescribed competence in such different and specific areas as – funding of political parties, conflict of interest or prevention of corruption, it appears not justified. The draft law provides the Agency with sufficient opportunities to form internal organisational continents on its own and to adopt an adequate rules on job systemisation, which would ensure that all competences are covered by professional human resources. When we talk about the part of the bill relating to conflict of interest, I want to point out the persistent commitment of G17 plus that this area is precisely and rigorously regulated, and these segments of the bill are for us additional facts that will lead us to vote for its adoption. The quality of this part of the bill contributes to the clearly defined prohibitions in terms of performing another function without the consent of the Agency, and not, as in previous practice, when a reminder of the Republic Committee was awaited and appealed to the conscience of the officials. So all those officials who are elected to another public function contrary to the provisions of the law, the later function will cease by force of the law. In addition to the prescribed obligations of officials in the area of independent and self-aware reporting of conflicts of interest, clear definition of relations in, possibly, political engagement or membership of a professional association, we consider it to be a very important definition of the obligation of officials to notify the Agency of the procurement procedure, privatisation or any other procedure in which the official has a relationship with the legal person who appears in the procedure. We also believe that it is important that the proposing also prescribed a ban on the establishment of a working relationship or business co-operation with an enterprise or an international organisation, two years after the termination of public office. What G 17 plus specifically insisted on, and which is why it supports this law, is also the part that relates to the reporting of the property of the officials. Given that this is very often the subject of media and political manipulation, fertile soil for wide-scale demagogy, it is very good to establish a register of property of officials, which thus becomes public and accessible information to citizens. The data path is well-defined with the content of the report submitted by the functionors. According to the proposal, the public also refers to the pay data and other revenue received by the official from the budget. It is very important that the Agency is given and competent to verify the accuracy and complete data, as well as their timely submission. Of course, the essential effectiveness of this legislative proposal gives criminal provisions designed for not reporting property or providing false property information. Legal consequences for this crime, which envision the prison sentence from six months to five years in prison, with the ban on obtaining public office for 10 years, will sufficiently close the space for possible manipulation and disrespect of this law. This also applies to criminal provisions for the violation of this law in terms of fines. Many studies and research have shown that the country in which it has the least corruption is characterised by high standards and respect for human rights, political stability, effective state administration, free market economy and a firm rule of law. Of course, the opposite is the case with countries where there are serious problems with corruption. It is these countries, and something similar to Serbia, that have, in comparison, a strong desire to develop their own economy, through attracting domestic and foreign investment. It is absolutely certain that the suppression of corruption through the application of such legislation is more effective in this field than the numerous measures applied, and only the World Bank has so far recorded over 350 measures to combat corruption. Finally, it should also be mentioned in the World Bank study of May 2005, with the conclusion that political will is crucial in the fight against corruption. G 17 plus shares such an attitude and believes that the political will of Serbian citizens, expressed in the last elections, by choosing the parties facing European integration, is a groundless basis for the approval of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Given that the fight against corruption is inevitable by the fact in the process, G 17 plus will vote in favour of the legislative proposal and support its subsequent application in all words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3449	The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3450	I will concentrate, above all, on the law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and on amendments and additions to the Party Finance Act. For other things, I don't have time, they'll talk to other colleagues. The first thing I'd like to say is that this agency that's forming, really, is something we could call it -- give me what you're giving. There is no political will to really start fighting corruption. Something's a little bit improved, and that, first of all, when you look at the law on preventing conflicts of interest and records of the property of the officials. When you look at the entire agency law, 70% of the content refers to the conflict of interest law and the property of officials, and everything else, which we have in the Strategy, and this should be some kind of operationalisation of it, as a specific institution, there is almost nothing of it, so from what is crucial, where the Anti-Corruption Agency should contribute and prove effective in the fight against corruption – there is nothing. I'm going to illustrate that on a few examples. Anything where we have non-transparent power, let's say, if it's a law on the protection of personal data, when we have to control BIA and the police, then we can't control them; if we have to control, let's say, in the law on party financing, the relationship between the tops of the parties and the tycoon, their financials, which we don't know now and who are hiding, there's nothing to talk about fixing the situation. As new in the party financing law, it is seen only that the terminology has changed, so it is said, only to inform the citizens, that so far control of the parties' finances, campaigns and regular party financing have been carried out by the Committee on Finance of the Assembly and RIK. When you look at how it needs to be fixed, then you just change, so you say – where the Commission stands, where the RIK stands, now stands the Agency, is not the finance minister, but the director of the Agency, where the Finance Committee stands, now stands the Agency. Simply, in law, when it comes to party financing and party financing control, there is no methodology. As the Agency does, there's not a single word. It is mentioned as jurisdiction, but, as it is done, there is not a single word, so the ambiguity that was in that law is just being transferred to the Anti-Corruption Agency. Please, my point is that this is what the government and government are doing on purpose. Now I'm going to show how they do it on purpose. Every institution, every law, where we need to control power, prevent corruption, prevent monopolies, etc., it deliberately leaves that you cannot, practically, regulate that law, and then, again, adopt a new law, so here's the new body, and it doesn't work at all. The audit committee doesn't work at all. So, even though we passed the Law in 2005, last year we chose a state audit, it doesn't work, so now we're replacing this republican committee to prevent conflicts of interest with this agency, even though it's only been working for 20 months. It's one race in the formation of independent agencies, independent committees, and then, for some reason, when they start to work, they just establish some kind of tradition of what they should do, they, faster or better, change and start again from scratch. The practice established here is particularly bad for fighting corruption, because it is the basis of its continuity to systematically show political will. I said earlier that I would show an example of how the Party Finance Act could have dealt with party reports, from where all the sources of funding came from. RIK, like the Finance Committee, have the right to hire auditors to make reports. When did they do that? Never. Likewise, as they did not want to do so under the Law on the financing of political parties, and now, in the Agency, there is nothing about it, because, when it comes to that jurisdiction, there is no definition of methodology, no means to do so in the Agency. So one ambiguity has been transferred to another, which is the basis of the source of corruption in Serbia. The second reason I would like to mention concerns conflict of interest, concerns public functions. You see, first of all, the definition of conflict of interest is set very narrow. So again, the conflict of private and public is being treated. There is no conflict between public functions, so, even, I have to say, two working relationships are allowed, which can also be in conflict of interest. For example, someone who has a public office, for example, is a minister of education, can continue teaching, for example. at a private college. So it's possible to keep both working relationships and this applies to more such activities, such as sports activities, such as cultural activities, research. You can have all of that, two relationships, along with function. It's not a conflict of interest to them. It must also be said in other functions that there are no restrictions on public functions, that a larger number is allowed, and then other public functions commit that within 15 days, the Agency must notify whether it allows that function to have another function. Suddenly, lower and lower members, that, in fact, if the Agency hadn't called, if it had kept quiet, it implies in itself that this official could accept that function as well. So, very often, given that there is no explicit statement by the Agency in the law, but is constantly talking about some kind of silence of the administration, the official can accept the second and third functions. So the accumulation of functions, which do not have to be, even, in conflict, but cannot be done, for the simple reason that they are two working relationships and, when it comes to public functions, it can harm the public interest, because someone performs functions that can't even physically be performed. However, the law does not resolve it. What my point is and what I want to point out is that the main cause of corruption in us is what we call a party state. There's not a shred of struggle against the party state in this bill. I'll show you what. Here, connected persons, since this exists in the first member of a particular definition, are considered only family ties. They're connected faces, I'm sorry, party debts. That means, if we have a feudal division of government by verticals, that the finance minister sets up in every municipality of the head of the tax administration; these are your connected faces. Let's see, when a party manager gets a heads up, can he say no or can't say no? There is simply no separation of party and state functions. It's only done in one member, and it's very shy, so the campaign can't use state resources if a party official goes on the campaign, because you can't see how they're going to, for example. Security, which he has, to disappear at that moment, will be used by some other, or party funds. Only in that part is there some indication that he is trying to separate the party from the state function. There is no question that it can be talked about abolishing the party state as the main source of corruption. And let me say one more thing: coverage. The scope of the officials has been increased, but again those leading posts in the Police, Customs and Tax Administration have been left out; they also do not subject to conflict of interest, they do not have to report property, so both the police and Customs and everything else can be corrupt and order functions as much as they want. Finally, just to mention how important this law is, he did not commit to the Assembly anything, to consider in the Assembly a report from this agency. We will never discuss what the Agency will do, as well as many other reports, and I think it would be good if the law required us to discuss every year the Assembly of the Agency's report, the fight against corruption, its results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3451	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Krasic and then Mr Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3452	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I call on Article 136. A moment ago, on another bill, I was trying to prove that for a good parliamentary debate on a bill, we needed to have a very high-quality explanation and an explanation of the bill. Ms. Vesna Pesic rightly opened one topic, but there is no letter in the bill, in the explanation of what she was talking about. I don't know where that argument got lost. Let me remind you, in 2003, a law on the financing of political parties was passed in the O.R. This is where Bozidar Djelic sat, brought in a beautiful blonde and they explained the law, and then the Democratic Party, which sat in the second row, realized that they do not know what political parties are and what election activities are. We've been trying to make amends right, but it's impossible to correct. We, in essence, have a bad law on funding political parties, and in that part about regular, and that part about election activities. It was well noted here, instead of the committee and RIK, we put in the Anti-Corruption Agency. What's a quality change? She's gone. Positions are still the same. Bad Law, we all know it's a bad law, and on the manual for the application of the law, Bozidar Djelic earned money when he printed it after the adoption, and you don't know it. There are those of us who know. You don't touch that part. This changes the Agency. How are things with the Agency now? It's the same as the National Security Council. According to the composition, by official duty, it's exactly where the source of corruption is. At national security, it's those who are ruining national security, abuse, listening, making a gift-mar, etc. That's the problem. We don't have an explanation, we don't have an explanation. Why did someone convince us that we needed these jobs done by the Agency? Why isn't the State Audit Authority? Of course, we'll get to that point on the agenda, so you can tell me what kind of mechanisms you've predicted for abuse, if someone commits abuse, so you're protecting him in this assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3453	It's been three minutes. Thank you. Mr. Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3454	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mrs Dejanovic, I waited for you to return to the O.R. to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, in Article 140, and in relation to the article. 225 and 226. My colleagues said about it and I won't waste much time, you gave us 15 minutes for six laws that have nothing to do with each other. I don't abuse this parliamentary intervention to talk about the law, but I have to ask you and Minister Markovic about the following, under Article 225. As early as November, or December of last year, the National Initiative Act, with 70,000 signatures, reached the model of the code on the classification of secret documents. It is a law which, indeed, has to do with the law that is now on the agenda, which is the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, as well as the Law on the availability of public information. We don't have him on the agenda today, although he could rightly be added to this law. It is the law, because of the viewers I say, which determines by which criteria competent officials, from the President to the Director of Vodavod, Belgrade, determines what is a state, military, official or business secret. Now there's no such law, and now there's a document of JNA's cassary in Karlovac, if it's still here, military secret. I ask you a question: where did this law go, because this law on classification of documents, without which there is no application of the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and the Law on the Accessibility of Public Information, is lost? In the past year, he's been on the site and then he's been taken off. He could not be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, in a good way for the new government to withdraw proposals from the old government, because it was the law that the citizens submitted. The law was written by a coalition for freedom of access to information, a group of NGOs. This law has been made in accordance with laws applicable in normal countries, such as Slovenia or Spain. In 15 years, only four or five documents received a national or military secret. Everything is a secret in this country. I ask you - where is this law that NGOs have handed over, in accordance with the law, and, secondly, is it true that, despite the fact that such a law exists in the procedure, Minister of Local Self-Government Milan Markovic formed a task force for the production of data classification laws and that the head of this working group is the BIA man? Does this mean, if true, that such a law is written to us by those to whom, primarily, this law should apply, in order to remove the veil from work and secret services, that civil rights in this country can finally be protected in the way they are protected in all European democratic countries that want to be members of the European Union? You, as I recall, are most of you, the pro-European coalition, which makes European laws, though, not in a European way, but, well. Where is the classification law submitted by NGOs and is it true that Milan Markovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3455	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3456	... Yet formed a task force, headed by a BIA man, who will make us a law in which everything will be a secret?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3457	The code on classification of classified documents is certainly extremely significant. The fact that he showed up on the site, so there is, so he's gone, I informed myself that, during the regular session, for the longest 60 days, one law can be on the site, and it rests during an extraordinary session. I will inform myself about all the other parts of your questions, and later I will give you an answer as to what is going on at the Ministry of Local Self-Government. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic has a word, and let Miroslav Petkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3458	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us a set, so-called "anti-corruption and anti-organised crime" set, a group of legal projects that this Parliament should adopt, because they are extremely important to our legal system, to strengthen the institutions of the state, to our judiciary, to our citizens. They repeat what is already repeated as a phrase, which is the fact that they are important because they also imply the arrival of Serbian citizens on the white Schengen list, i.e. the visa-free regime, and our EU membership bid 2009. The Personal Data Protection Act is based on several strategic documents, on several international documents that the minister has absorbed in her exposé, I would not repeat it now. What I'm saying is that the need for these and other laws is generated not only in the Serbian Constitution, but also in the National Strategy adopted by the government, as well as in international documents. The need for these laws has arisen and is conditioned by our reality. We live in a society that is in the final stage of transition, which, according to many indicators, takes a rather poor position in relation to the corruption index, at the rate of organised crime, although major shifts have been made especially in this last area, namely the fight against organised crime. In existing legislation, or our legal system, there was a vacuum in the Personal Data Protection Act. There was no authority to enforce that law. This is exactly what, as well as a number of other failures we've had in so far in our legislation, is being solved by a law on the protection of personal data. And materially-legal, and structurally, and according to the rules of legal normative, this law is very good, because it detaileds the protection of personal data, the processing and use of these data, as well as the rights of citizens to exercise their personal data. What I'm saying is that this is a multilateral process, when we talk about the procedure itself, not material-legal aspects, where we have a data processor, where we have a party, or a citizen, and where we have an authority that controls the work of a processor, which is the Commissioner for Public Information. His role, as an institution of democratic society, is particularly important and is particularly strengthened by this law. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the National Assembly obliges us, as MPs, to adopt such a legal project. This project is important not only because of what I've been saying, but also because of the coordination of state authorities in the fight against corruption and in the fight against organised crime, although this law does not explicitly touch this area. What provides for the functionality of this law, i.e. its implementation and implementation in practice, are, precisely, the bodies of this agency, which are the Agency Committee and the Director. So, the structure of the Committee, today we talked about it, MPs of the parliamentary majority and MPs of the opposition, i.e. the authorities that delegate their representatives to this committee guarantee the representation of the widest layers of society, professional associations, legislative, executive and judicial authorities, the State Auditing Agency, the Bars, etc. What matters is that this committee corresponds to this House. The second body is the director of the Agency, who is elected by competition and we believe that it is also one of the shifts towards the departementization of our society and our system. Furthermore, there are standards that I would not particularly apostrophe, which refer to the procedure itself. What I'm trying to say and what's the essence of this law, I think that's particularly important to the citizens of Serbia, and we have a duty to explain to them, is that the official cannot perform another public function except by the approval of the authority that selected him and the Agency. It is prescribed that if a functioner is elected to office, contrary to this law, he has another function, his later function ends by force of the law. Logging in the property of the officials is something that is very important and what is the topic and the public, and the media, and this Parliament, and all the institutions in this society. The quality of this law is reflected in the norms that regulate this matter, which is the property of the officials. The Impairative Standard sets out the obligation for officials to report property, tax-listed, movable and immovable assets, the use of apartments for official purposes, etc. Another quality of this law is public, or transparency. All data relating to officials is public and that is certainly what Serbian citizens want to know and what we all said in the election campaign, that transparency of the work of institutions and officials who personify those institutions will be public. This law, on the other hand, contains measures to be applied as sanctions for the violation of certain standards. Except for the measure of public publication, recommendations, etc., there are certain sanctions that are disciplinary, criminal, but also criminal. I would also like to clarify one of the concerns that has arisen in public these days, the Council on the fight against corruption continues its work, because it is an independent body formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this body is not the subject of this law. The Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest is a body which is the legal predecessor of this Agency, and the Agency will, within a certain time limit, take over both cases and employees and persons from the Committee on the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest. The second law in this set, no less important, is the law of confiscation of the benefits of committing a crime. Again, I want to say that all that we have pointed out as political ideals, all that is included in our political programmes, I believe, all the political options in this House, is the principle of justice, the principle of justice, and this law, among other things, allows this principle of justice to be consistently implemented and that no one can benefit from the crime. The current practice of criminal courts, which is best known by fellow lawyers and lawyers sitting in this House, was such that the solutions contained in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were not consistent, or were minimally applied when it comes to the confiscation of unlawful property benefits. This law has the character of lex specialis and it strictly norms and procedures and measures relating to the confiscation of property benefit. So it's the crimes of the so-called. luxuriant or profitable character. What is important to point out, the law also contains mechanisms, procedures and definitions of the body to implement these provisions, these are specialised state bodies that will manage the property. This property will pass, following the end of the criminal procedure, into the Republic of Serbia's budget and the structure of its distribution will be such that it will, primarily, be in the role of the development of the judiciary. By this law, therefore, we also strengthen our legislative capacity, strengthen the institutions of the judiciary, and, on the other hand, this principle of justice, and from some victimological and aspect damaged in criminal proceedings, puts those persons in a much more favourable position. We've already spoken, I'm just going to briefly list, that it's mostly crimes against the economy, against humanity and against the official duty. So that's the so-called. corrupt criminal acts. I must point out that the law has very clearly balanced the position of the state prosecutor, the position of the court, but also the defendant, so that no norm, any provision of this law affects the rights of the defendant and his human rights, so this law also follows the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the practice of European courts and legislation. There's a temporary confiscation institute, a permanent confiscation of property, the law elaborates on it. What is important to point out is the role of prosecutors in the pre-crime process, as well as the role of police, i.e. a special unit dealing with financial crime. In the end, just a few sentences on the draft law on the liability of legal persons for criminal acts. This is a new institute in our normative environment. So, so far, we've had the responsibility of legal persons for crimes and economic crimes, and this law introduces the Institute of Legal Liability for Criminal Crimes, means not the criminal liability of a legal person for crimes, but the responsibility of a legal person for crimes committed. It is important here to point out that comparative experiences show us that such institutes exist in most Member States of the European Union. Another sentence, which refers to this very law, which is the causality between the responsible person in the legal person and the legal person himself. With these four laws, we are rounding up one short-term phase of normative strengthening of our institutions, providing better conditions for fighting organised crime, anti-corruption and, in the end, making our country and our society a faster way towards the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3459	Thank you. Mr. Miroslav Petkovic, and be prepared Dejan Radenkovic, MP of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3460	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, can do this better. The president of the assembly praised your elaborate, I know that for a short time it was, 25 minutes, to present these six laws to us and of course there will be a problem for the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. We 21 need to talk about six laws at the same time, but we will discuss in particular the amendments for the next few days, so we will have the opportunity to show in which elements these laws can be corrected and I am sure you will accept the amendments of the Democratic Party of Serbia. In view of this galamatias that we had today on the 27 points proposed, so you withdrew half, although it was your government's proposals, which came after the urgent procedure, I managed to find only common law on the protection of personal data, for the Anti-Corruption Agency and the law on the financing of political parties – that they would be applied since 2009 and that additional funds were needed in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the application of these laws. It is certainly commendable, when we talk about the law on the protection of personal data, that, practically, after 1998, this matter will be first regulated. As responsible MPs, we have also submitted amendments to this law, first of all, to the first member of this law, we have a certain addition to the Constitution itself, Article 21. The Constitution, which applies to age, with all the conditions that are numbered, so that in this way we are trying to protect minors, or their rights provided for by this bill. Because of the very short time we have, I will, first of all, refer to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Let me remind you that the version of this law already existed in the previous justice ministry. There used to be a committee on resolving conflicts of interest, this law will practically, in due course, stop working. The only thing that makes me a little bit of a problem is a constitutional basis for passing this law. Indeed, I do not think that Article 97 and Article 6 are very happy when it comes to discussing this bill, but since we are violating Article 106. The Constitution, by voting in a regular session and completing the session of the extraordinary session, by selecting the MPs of the District Assembly at the National Bank Board, I think another violation of the Constitution will not be difficult for you in one day. Regarding the legislation itself, in the draft law, in Article 2, for Serbian citizens to know, the definition of functionaries is given. It is each elected, appointed or appointed person in the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government and bodies of public enterprises, institutions and other organisations whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government and another person elected by the National Assembly. So, they're all selected and named faces or faces. We have already made an amendment to this second member, and I think it is quite reasonable, rational, that you will accept that amendment, I think it is point 7), as it is said – the gift is money, thing, law or service done without the appropriate compensation and any other benefit given to the functionor. I think the word "promised," if added, fits into this completely, and that way it will regulate this matter more fully. Article 4 is said to be the headquarters of the Agency in Belgrade. The Agency can educate organisational units outside the seat. It's not listed anywhere, it's not known how many of these organisational units are scheduled, and I think this could have been done differently. Why exactly the Agency's headquarters in Belgrade, if it is in Belgrade and the Cassation Court, the Administrative Court and most of the republican authorities; you might have put a proposal to be in another city. As regards Article 9, for the composition of the Agency's Committee, if I am not mistaken, the earlier proposal provided for seven members of the Committee. At first sight, it is evident that the proposal is being tabled by the Administrative Board, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Supreme Cassation Court, I have already mentioned it, not yet formed, the State Auditing Institution, the Citizens' Protector and the Information Commissioner, the Social-Economic Council, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Association of Journalists of the Republic of Serbia. We have also submitted an amendment to this article. The start shows that, practically, the regime has five members on this committee, which is fully controlled, through the Administrative Board, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the State Audit Institute. I don't think that's a good solution. Not to raise the issue, first of all, of the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, as they will propose. In the next member, something has been defined as giving a list of three candidates, but there is no law on what happens if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia chooses none of the proposed candidates. I think it was supposed to stand in this law, because there could be space opening, and it was happening to us that when some bodies were elected, they didn't go through this choice, and then there was a stalemate in their work. This is a very interesting solution in Article 14, which is said to be – the resolution decision, on a proposal from the Committee of the Agency, is made by the National Assembly. Of course, it brings the National Assembly, but if anyone is serious, they can believe that members of the Committee will propose someone from that resolution system. That seems totally amazing to me. As far as the director is concerned, there's been a lot of talk today. My favorite formulation – the director cannot be a member of a political party, it should stand, but we know it will not apply. It stands, it also writes for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and the coalition agreement usually states which parties will also be governor of the National Bank. However, I heard that during the negotiations on local government for Belgrade, one of the senior officials and members of the ruling coalition, not knowing that it was chosen by the National Assembly, sought the governor's post, so I'm not surprised why this is the case. The Director of the Agency is elected in a public competition, it is not disputed. It's chosen for five years. So, the duration of the term of office is different from the members of the Committee, who are elected for four years, but the deputy director of the Agency's Committee, on a proposal from the Director, without a public competition. Which is why this was introduced, given that the next article states that the director has the right to pay the same salary as the minister, and his deputy – the salary is equal to that paid by the secretary of state. Probably that's why this kind of financial resources are planned for this board to function, but we'll talk about it later. Article 30, very interesting, which says the official cannot use public resources and meetings at which he participates and meetings he has as a function of promotion of political parties. The official is obliged to always give an unequivocally to the speakers and the public whether it represents the position of the body in which the party's public office or position is performed. It will be very interesting when individual ministers perform, well, even the President of the Republic. Some will likely have to take off their badges, some will have to say on the main board – now I speak as party president. When they come out for the promotion of officers, they will say – now I speak as President of the Republic or another official. That'll be very interesting, to see if they respect the provisions of this law. One thing that really bothers me is doing another job or acting. It says here he can do sports work. That means we're going to have state officials back on the boards of sports clubs, who'll still be wondering about some important things, and I think that's proved to be a very bad solution over the years. Also, when reporting assets, it is Article 44(2) that the official is obliged to submit to the Agency, within 30 days of the day of the election, the report on his or her assets and incomes, i.e. the right to use the apartment for official purposes and on the property and incomes of the spouse or out-of-marriage partner, as well as the underage children, within 30 days of the day of the election. We have here suggested that adult children be added, because in practice a situation may arise that one of the officials prescribes any son, any daughter of all property, it is not taxed here, and thus bypasses what this law, in principle, should regulate. Article 46, I spoke at the outset about the definition of officials, here predicts that the report is not submitted to committees, members of boards of directors and supervisory boards of public enterprises, institutions and other organisations whose founder is municipalities or city. So here, the committees, as elected persons, are covered, but, let's say, the MPs, too, as elected persons, are not covered by this Article 46. The most attractive, of course, is Article 48 of the Law, that the Agency is running a register of property and, in my opinion, it will be a member who will represent a party of millions in the coming years in the Republic of Serbia, as it provides that property rights on fixed items, property rights on the means of transport, savings stakes, the right to use an apartment for official purposes are published on the Agency's internet presentation. This means that we will see which officials have houses, haciendas, Latifundi and everything else, and that will be very interesting for the citizens of Serbia. All I'm asking is that this member of the law is literally respected and let's see what he's gained during his duties. Of course, for Article 49, we have proposed a completely different solution, because I think a solution is foreseen that the Agency is required to verify the accuracy of the report's data according to the annual verification plan for a number of officials and categories of officials scandalously because it allows selective application of the law. So someone's gonna sit around and figure out which officials they're gonna check out, which ones they're gonna go around. To be practical, in order for my colleagues to have enough time to talk about these laws, I'm only going to say that for the implementation of this law, 160 million dinars are foreseen. For the salaries of officials and employees of the Agency it is necessary to provide 108 million, for the other costs – 13 million. That means nine million dinars a month for people's salaries to do this job. By some count, that's 100 people per 100,000 dinars. To return to this first law, a law on the protection of personal data, which also enters in 2009. He predicts that the job will be carried out by more than 60 employees, whose functioning needs to be ensured by the estimated 34m, an additional 70m dinars, so nearly a million and a half euros will cost to apply the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3461	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3462	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I know that we are tired of today's debate in the Rules of Procedure, and I will take the opportunity to say something from the field of this set of laws about the Anti-Corruption Agency. After a number of recommendations from world experts and based on experiences from other countries, we have before us a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, under which the functioning of the Agency is extended to law enforcement, i.e. to a repressive element. Experience shows that in the fight against corruption... I think we've been listening all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3463	Please allow Mr Radenkovic to be heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3464	Experience shows that the fight against corruption has led to the conclusion that a repressive element is necessary and that without it, corruption cannot be dealt with. The fight against corruption cannot be fought until citizens understand the essence based on examples and proven cases. Citizens must understand that corruption is an evil that bites the entire economic and social system, that it is the basis of poverty and must know what are the ways to achieve their rights without paying for the service. The Anti-Corruption Agency must co-operate with the police, the Justice Ministry, as well as with all those who in some way do the backbone in the fight against corruption. All competent authorities should be involved in the fight against corruption, as I have already said, and coordination of their work is essential. It is best to include and train existing people in state bodies to fight corruption more decisively. Independent experts from the Agency will carefully consider any regulation relating to procedures, permits, powers and competences. Then, they should observe and act advisoryly and assist in reforming legislation and its application. Dearly respected, Serbia is now in a group of highly corrupt countries. In the last few years, citizens have placed corruption in the fourth place of society's problems. One is poverty, two are unemployment, and third is general crime. A public opinion survey suggests that citizens believe that corruption in Serbia is very widespread, as well as that this attitude is less built on personal experience and more on data based on other stories. These surveys show that a large number of citizens do not even report cases of petty corruption that they have direct knowledge of. It is even harder to determine in our country the data on the widespread corruption of the large volume, as we would say. It, in an indirect manner, is reported by data obtained from research into corruption by foreign businessmen and risk analysts. According to one of these analyses, Serbia is located in a group of highly corrupt countries, the third is on a scale from zero to ten, with highly corrupt people considered to be those with an index below four. I'd like to look back a little bit on the difference between the Agency and the existing anti-corruption authority. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and the Council for the Combating of Corruption had no way, nor the right to impose appropriate sanctions, so most of the problems were addressed with certain recommendations, without concrete action. This law will allow sanctions to be imposed and I think it will be clear in practice that this agency is responsible for the executive and operational fight against corruption, and the Council will remain in this advisory post. Finally, I would just like to say that with a successful fight against corruption, we are also helping reduce poverty and achieve social justice, build a democratic society and open government, develop business relations, have fairer business relations on visible grounds and improve the security of people and protect property, and ultimately create sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3465	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3466	Ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of a procedure that is not based on sound arguments often affects the quality of the bill itself. Whenever it comes to human rights, the bill must go through a comprehensive, serious and reasoned public debate. However, this was not the case with the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. Such an attitude is represented by experts dealing with this matter. For example, Alexander Zagorac, a permanent expert advisor to the Centre for the Study and Use of Contemporary Technologies, in his study on the Bill's proposal of 23 September 2008, reads: "The proposal for a law, which is before us, seems to be drawn up without more comprehensive preparation, discussion before professional and general public, which is a special problem in modern circumstances, where data availability is important and very determined by the factor of social and personal life. If the speed had already been necessary, could it not have found an appropriate model in foreign legislation? In this respect, there are important failures. The proposal for a law on the protection of a person represents an unfinished project." A similar conclusion was reached by the expert team gathered around the NGO "For Life Without Stamps". A representative of this organisation, Aleksandar Pavić, participated on the Round Table titled "What Is Offering and What Is Missing in the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personal Data". The event was held on 4 September 2008 and attended by about 100 IT experts. A number of amendments to the draft legislation, opinions, as well as issues related to the draft law have been tabled at the meeting. The promoter was also obliged on the basis of these facts to understand how sensitive the area of regulation is. In particular, since even in practice some of the EU's leading countries do not function perfectly. For example, in August of this year, the director of the Union of Consumers in Germany, Gerd Biler, said: "Data of six million citizens, of which four million with current account numbers, we managed to get online for just 850 euros within two days." This operation by the Union of Consumers was aimed at drawing attention to the state's prosecutor's office's increasing abuse of confidential data from citizens in Germany, the leading country of the European Union. In that context, German data protection chief Petar Shari said in August this year: "The law that sanctions data abuse is filled with holes like Swiss cheese." For example, illicit use of data for advertising purposes does not constitute a criminal offence. Also, illegal trafficking with more than 250,000 data has been registered in Germany. In East Germany alone, sales of personal data to citizens, bank accounts and credit cards to private companies were recorded, and one of the illegal sellers had access to the German Telecom data bank, so the company's data bank has several dozen million users. These are all data from the German media, published in our public and were not inaccessible for the legislator. Major demonstrations were announced in France for October 16th because of new police files containing data on union leaders, minors, politicians, health care. The promoter missed the opportunity to highlight and expand the meaning of the law, the purpose for which such laws are passed. In addition to protecting the human rights of our citizens, as a reason for the adoption of laws in this area, the same law states, according to the study of the Centre for the Study and Use of Contemporary Technologies: 'The Proposer, as an important reason for this regulation, states that the conditions necessary for EU accession are met, but that the general arguments in the background of international agreements that regulate such a broad degree of data exchange on natural persons are primarily related to issues of security and crime control, because the idea that a significant number of crimes can be pre-warned by such exchange. ''Thereafter, this study on the bill states: 'There are opinions that it is the only fundamental justification for the widest spectrum of personal data processing.' So, instead of repeating the phrase about some European integration, it should have been explained that there was a real legal background for legal regulation in this area. Also, it is obvious that the proponent in his haste, or in the promiscuous ideological enthusiasm, has not studied political abuses in this area, which are happening today in the EU. For example, Britain'sobserver announced on January 21st 2007, that Germany proposed at a meeting of EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in Dresden to adopt an agreement from Prum in early 2007. The agreement was signed between Germany and seven other countries. There was no consultation with the European Parliament when the agreement was reached. The agreement provides that police officers will be able to move from one country to another, without notice, in emergency situations, and the definition of the emergency situation is mildly controversial. The risk is that the danger will materialise in case the police of the host state are waiting for it to operate. As for the exchange of information provided for by this agreement, the Stajvoch Civil Liberties Control Group considers: 'Prum this process speeds up and instead of having a suspect first, and only then looking for data will they be able to immediately throw themselves in search of all over Europe'. Ladies and gentlemen, all significant international conventions and agreements guarantee the right to privacy: Universal Declaration, in Article 12, European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in Article 8, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, in Article 17. In that sense, the bill promoter was obliged to allow the citizen to refuse to provide biometric data in electronic form. The promoter was also obliged to regulate the collection and processing of surveillance cameras in public places. Citizens must be informed of those locations where those cameras are located. It's a minimum of the right to be incorporated into the text of the law. The promoter was also obliged to pay particular attention to the collection and storage of health data. The penalties for the loss of more personal data stored should also be tightened. Due to the above examples from EU countries, more specifically, more detailed regulation should be given to the provision of relevant data to our citizens abroad. It was necessary to specify the conditions for legal and natural persons dealing with the processing and handling of personal data in the draft law. A particularly important condition was to require the residence or headquarters of these persons in Serbia. Finally, there is no solution to the conflict between the trustees and other authorities in the text. If this is not properly resolved in the text of the proposal, the whole law will be just a propaganda pamphlet, which will serve to draw attention from the so-called “. ” European integration, more specifically, with the dreary reality and false promises that Brussels offers us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3467	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3468	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on today's vote of the agenda, on my personal name, on behalf of the political organisation that I belong to, which is called "Together for Kragujevac", and on behalf of the G 17 Plus Parliamentary Group and our coalition partner, with whom we are participating in the work of this group. This vote of the agenda demonstrated the concrete power of representative democracy, in that spirit of Abraham Lincoln's definition of "government over the people, but with the people and for the people", because it was precisely the result of the May elections, which I would like to remind you of, that it was the inevitable removal of delusions, wrong topics from the political scene or the current agenda in Serbia. Citizens in these elections had just had to choose between two conflicted options, one which had raised an exclusive dilemma – either Kosovo or nothing, through the identity of Serbia and Kosovo, and the other, which, respecting the importance of this topic, nevertheless, gave priority to issues of economic development, the development of living standards and the civilization standards of our society. Should it be reminded that this other political option has received majority support from citizens. The list for European Serbia, which is also participated by the political organisation "Together for Kragujevac", received more votes than any other political organisation in Serbia and made a majority coalition over which only one topic should not be opened – whether it is an expression of the majority mood of citizens. Yes, it is. Don't have any delusions, putting the Declaration on Kosovo and Metohija on the agenda today would be one thing the kids would say - a fool. So, to adopt another declaration on Kosovo for the autumn season -- the winter of 2008. What is on this subject and in which declaration does it say what is not already a constitutional, legal obligation, or any declaration confirmed? Not to waste time on the subject, I want to point out that what the citizens have actually chosen is one quantitative opinion in politics, a desire for effective politics, versus abstractions and the political principles that have kept us in the mud. In particular, citizens chose between Fiat and the SAA, on the one hand, and empty thesis, on the other. A vital connection to this agenda, because that's exactly what it's all about all the time. This is what unites and what is incomprehensible to you in the united debate of the mentioned points of the agenda, because this is the first of the two major steps of this assembly and this government, which in 100 days has fulfilled its two basic pre-election promises: we have ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have signed a contract with the Fiat. If you're interested in when it's going to be real, it's already real. On Friday, the Kragujevac City Assembly makes decisions that local self-government has committed. These laws, and especially the ones I want to talk about, is the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, are in fact just what I told you about the SAA, along with the formula -- it will continue, because the basic value of this agreement has exactly been in the idea of harmonising our legislation with the legal framework of EU countries, with the belief that this will represent the modernization of our society and bring discontinity to the sinful legacy of what I'm telling you about, which can't rip out even the past, or this one, and future one would drag into the dead mud that we're under. Thanks, that's right, live mud. Of course, deader. The point is, in fact, these ideas lie in the fact that we have problems catching up with the values of our time. I am truly sorry, as well as the political organisation 'Together for Kragujevac', whose views I represent, I believe, and the entire Parliament group G 17 plus, that we didn't have the strength as a society to make a discontinuous cut another October 5th, with the support of our own strengths and our own potentials, but by catching a step with a more developed democracy, with the world, with higher standards. We'll get on a train that'll get us out of the dead one. Hence, in this bill, besides the harmonisation mentioned, which is the essential value, the most important tension it has to resolve is the tension between two values: operational efficiency and respect for the right of personality and its privacy. This bill tries to resolve this tension through ideas of transparency, preservation, processing and availability of personality data, with effective surveillance procedures. Is there a weak spot in a draft like this, therefore, a bill of law? With many elements from the exhibition and Mrs. Aleksandre Jankovic from the NS and Prof. Vesne Pesic is inclined to agree that some things remain flawed, but the fact is that the point is what I said. It is not true that Serbia is the only country in the Western civilized world that does not have this law, in fact, the opposite. If you look at this research done by the Department of Information and Research, you'll see that the largest and oldest democracies of Western civilizations, the United States, France, Great Britain, have the smallest regulations, America almost does not. This is the story of English grass for you, and you cut it, and it grows, and you cut it, and it grows, and then you cut it, and it grows. Five hundred years she won't be trampled anymore. The point is generational development. I know this laugh is the laughter of those who, in this particular, recognize the obvious nudity of their own position. How can I tell you, the SRS wouldn't have been able to distract the public of Serbia and this people this long if it hadn't had in other political and extra-political factors of this society all-out support. With this assembly's willingness to impose such a agenda, that, despite all the obstructions, here, they are searching and, in the end, to make these decisions, in fact, lay the reasons for supporting this government of the Republic of Serbia, in the belief that we are on a safe path and that these outright stories, in vain, have certainly come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3469	Thank you. Mrs. Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I won't be able to be this euphoric. I wish I could, but really, it's not a chance. By bringing together the debate on three types of proposal, on privacy protection, on visa relief and the fight against corruption, the ruling coalition and the coalition majority have shown, in the first place, that they do not understand the importance of these laws. That's one. Two, we're in a position to adopt laws that aren't applicable. I, as my predecessor colleague, will stick to this first law, especially since we don't have much time, since it's six legal proposals. In fact, this personal data protection law is not applicable without the adoption of a data classification law, under one. Two, worse still, the National Assembly again passed a law that is contrary to some applicable law, and in this case it is a law on free access to information. In accordance with Article 45(2) of the proposed law, an authority which should protect privacy shall be disabled by authorising public and public security authorities to prohibit not only access to data to this authority, but even entering the premises. That's right, look into the law. It's another law that's contrary to the applicable law. Secondly, it is a very problematic member of the 16th that we have also pointed out is directly contrary to the freedoms and human rights of our citizens. That should, in fact, be made possible by this law. Namely, especially sensitive data regarding this matter, I will not list everything, national, religious, racial, sexual, health, or eight ways in which these data can be misused. Thus, the essence of the law is not in the protection of the privacy of citizens, but in reverse – to a large door, it allows the authorities of national security to abuse them. You know what is saddest of all – everything we have done today, we have done in vain; for this is, in a way, less than the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, one. Two, absolutely, is not in line with European standards. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, were alive, so see, you will be my witness, Mrs. Malovic, we will re-work this law and amendments and additions. I will only remind you then, because this is not in accordance, absolutely, with European standards and is contrary to our domestic legislation. Thank you, period.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-07-0.u3471	Thank you. Bosko Ristic is not here.
