ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 243 MPs, i.e. there is a quorum for work and decision-making. They have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vladan Batic and Zvonimir Stevic. I would like to inform you that, in addition to the MPs, they have been invited to attend today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, as well as ministers in the government. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Monday, 18 February 2008, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as those laid down in Article 85(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time provided for in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, given that this session came as a result of yesterday's act of unilateral declaration of independence for Kosovo and Metohija, so the reasons for calling a session are more than obvious in such a short time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been submitted to you for an emergency session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, the following Dn e n i d: 1. The proposal for a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to confirm the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to annul the anti-legal acts of the provisional bodies of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija on the declaration of unilateral independence, which the government has submitted. We're going to work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON CONCERNING THE DECISION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA ON THE UNIFORMATION OF THE UNIFORMAL AUTHORITIES OF THE UNIFORMAL AUTHORITIES OF THE UNIFORMAL AUTHORITY You have received a proposal from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the confirmation of the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the repealing of the acts of the provisional bodies of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija on the declaration of unilateral independence by the Government. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the government's representative, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, the Prime Minister want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15409	Dear People's MPs, just before the start of this session of the National Assembly, we had the opportunity to see that US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice announced that America has recognised a false state of Kosovo. Before America, it was only Afghanistan. This announcement of the United States cannot make a false state real, but this announcement to the whole world has shown itself to be the real violent face of American politics, the raw force. The Serbian government has ordered that Serbia's ambassador to Washington retire urgently to Belgrade, and this is the first emergency measure of the government to apply to all countries that recognise unilateral independence. Yesterday, by the way, on 17 February 2008, a false state of Kosovo was illegally declared in the territory of the sovereign state of Serbia, and today our long-standing struggle to fully restore the entire province to the constitutional and legal order of Serbia begins. This is our goal and Serbia will achieve it, but we cannot fully achieve it today, and if we cannot do it today, we will achieve it tomorrow, because Serbia must be free. Those who have allowed such a false state to be declared have forgotten that Serbia has never been and will never give up freedom since it exists. Yesterday's anti-legislative act affected the UN Charter, Resolution 1244, the final Helsinki Act and all international law standards on which the world order rests. The unilateral declaration of the fake state of Kosovo is a direct threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia, its Constitution and constitutional order, as well as any legal and legitimate acts brought by the most state institutions of Serbia. The Serbian government, by its decision of 14 February 2008, annulled all illegal acts by the provisional authorities of the KIM and declared them invalid and invalid. This means that the unilateral declaration of a false state on the ground of our country does not produce any legal consequences in the Republic of Serbia. This means that KIM remains an inalienable part of the unique and indivisible constitutional and state-law order of the Republic of Serbia, and Serbs and all its citizens of the southern Serbian province, who recognise the state as a full and equal citizen of Serbia, have the right at the same time not to recognise illegal acts on declaring unilateral independence. Serbia's government has also declared the decisions of the European Mission's authorities null and void, in fact, the EU on sending a mission to KIM, because they are a direct threat to sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the country. Since they are against the law, these decisions by the EU have no legal fact for the Republic of Serbia and do not produce any decisions by the Republic of Serbia towards the EU or anyone who would implement them. We all know that this is a unilateral, illegal, violent and immoral declaration of a false state in Serbia's territory was only possible under the auspices of the US and NATO pact's harsh force and thanks to the non-principled policy of the leading EU states that had no moral and political power to defend the universal principles on which the EU itself rests. It is also evidence of the intention to bypass the United Nations at all costs in implementing such a policy. Evidence of this is also a disunity among the EU members itself on unilateral declaration, despite the insufferable pressures of the United States to violate international law in the most harsh way possible, in order for America to realise its military interests. Yesterday we could see the final act of brutal aggression and the ruthless bombing of Serbia by the NATO Pact. The whole purpose of this policy is to create a single formation in Serbia's territory that is nothing more than a military polygon and a NATO pact warehouse. Since the United States doesn't believe a word of it to its Albanian partners, they had to make a deal in the form of Annex 11. Ahtisaari's plan and to sign that, in fact, Ahtisaari's plan is the oldest document on which this false state rests. Respecting the Constitution and all resolutions of the National Assembly, and in particular the resolution on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, brought by the National Assembly in 26.12.2007, the Serbian government is conducting a single state policy in the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija, as an inseparable part of Serbia. In a fight to preserve state sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order, the government has also managed to provide international support in all countries that care about the preservation of international legal order. You know that immediately after the declaration of anti-legal and unilateral independence, Serbia requested an emergency session of the Security Council, the OSCE Permanent Council and the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. If Serbia were wrong, would it ask all relevant international organisations and bodies to make a statement on whether in her case they were recklessly violating international law. Regardless of the force will undermine justice and justice, Serbia will never recognise a false state of Kosovo on its territory, but for the country of Serbia, the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral and inseparable part of our country. On the day of the anti-legal and unilateral declaration of independence of this formation, Kosovo and Metohija were not lost, but a new page was opened in our history. From that moment on, the most important task and the main objective of the future state policy have been defined, and this is the return of Kosovo and Metohija to the constitutional and legal order of the country, to the scale of all applicable international law norms and, of course, the protection of our people and of every citizen in Kosovo and Metohija who respects Serbia's constitutional order. The Serbian government's decision to annul the violent act is a historic point starting Serbia's state and national policies for Kosovo and Metohija after February 17th. From now on, the goal of our policy must be the free, safe and normal life of every citizen living in the Serbian southern province. All Serbia's potentials – economic, cultural, political, institutional and other, must be placed in the role of protecting our countrymen and citizens, the economic development of areas in which they live, job security, education, health and social protection, the preservation of the spiritual and cultural heritage, the achievement of freedom and the full return of the whole province to the constitutional and legal order of the country. The creators of a violent policy, which is being conducted over Serbia, count that Serbia will quickly reconcile with the evil that seems to us and that the wrath of Serbia will last one day. We must be wise and perseverance and exalt Serbia, above all else and violence and every day show dignity and strength that will lead us to our goal. We leave violence and violence to those who in front of the whole world have betrothed it. Serbia must maintain stability in order to preserve and defend Kosovo. I am taking this opportunity to call again and ask all the citizens in peace, to protest peacefully and not to destroy their cities and their country. Dear People's MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia led a consistent and united state policy in the protection of interest, sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order, and in line with the frameworks set by this National Assembly. Respecting all acts of the Assembly, and in particular the Resolution on the Protection of Sovereignty, Territorial Integrity and Constitutional Order of the Republic of Serbia, made on 26 December 2007, the government ruled on the annulment of anti-government acts in Kosovo and the Metohija on the declaration of unilateral independence on 14 February this year. That document, that motion for a decision, is in front of you. In view of the fact that a false state of Kosovo was declared unlawfully and unilaterally yesterday and that it is expected to counter-recognition of this violent act by some states, which is a harsh violation of international law, and above all the UN Charter, the Final Act of Helsinki and Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council and, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the government has requested an emergency session of the National Assembly to declare the government's decision. Please once again, in the spirit of a single state and national policy and in line with the need to preserve the country's political stability, confirm the Serbian government's decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15410	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, head of the SRS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the hardest days in Serbia's history, it began yesterday and will probably take a very long time, will end with Kosovo and Metohija coming back into the constitutional framework, into the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, a second day began yesterday -- a day of fighting for Kosovo and Metohija and will not stop. I am telling you this on behalf of the members of the SRS, on behalf of our voters, will not stop until we return Kosovo and Metohija in one way or another to the constitutional framework of the Republic of Serbia. I voted several times as you wished, in the interest of the Serbian citizens. I have repeatedly persuaded the MPs of the SRS to do the same. And in this session that is not entirely in our will, which was necessary, but not complete, and I hope that the government will realize that at least by the end of the week it owes us another very serious session, at least because of the measures announced tonight by the Prime Minister, which we haven't had the opportunity to approve or oppose. At that session, we are likely to be an opposition to some parts of the government, perhaps even the entire government. I am not convinced that the government in this system can go to the end in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. I'd better tell you right now, in front of the whole Serbian public, that you know -- we're not going to make a move, we're not going to move a micron past its interests. But we certainly won't let you, no matter what person's name is, and whatever function he's in, do it without harshly resisting it. You said if you win, your friends in the world won't kidnap Kosovo and Metohija. You spoke, both Kosovo and the European Union. You said you had the best possible relationship with EU members and with the leader of foreign diplomacy led by the US. Today, just a few days after the presidential elections, we are talking about a false state of Kosovo. You said -- if Tomislav Nikolic wins, Albanians will declare Kosovo and Metohija independence. I can only imagine what the Serbian public would look like today if I had won those 104 thousand votes more than Boris Tadic. I can only imagine how much anger you would bring to the citizens of Serbia who voted for me. But now I'm telling you, I'm even sadder that I didn't win. Because I have no confidence that you, who stepped on the other side of the presidential election, will do this Serbian job to the end. Today, America and the EU are kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. That's what we need to say clearly and openly, and that's what every one of us needs to say. Anyone who sees the situation right, anyone who sees it, he has to say it. Today America has confessed, France has confessed, the UK has stated that tonight, I don't know when, admit it, Italy will surely confess. Don't tell me anymore that Cyprus won't admit it. I didn't even praise you for finding Cyprus, who would have put a bomb under his house if he had recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. I kept asking you – and what will be the day after Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. I asked you to bring the measures to the National Assembly, to give them to you in advance, and I did not prejudge the situation, you all knew that Albanians would declare Kosovo and Metohija independence. Don't pretend it's a surprise. No, it's no surprise at all. It's a surprise that yesterday we watched "Policeman" from Petl's Hill while they declared Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It's a surprise that we've been watching some film festivals for three days now, and the tourniquet is wearing a red-and-black leather costume, so I guess it warns us what's waiting for us on Sunday. It is a surprise that you call hooligans those who, indeed, wrongly, rushed to Belgrade yesterday, but did not know what to do by themselves, because no one knew how to tell them what Serbia was supposed to do. Because the president of Serbia said - peace, peace, peace, the president of the assembly said - peace, peace, peace... What peace, peace? What, to realize that that's the way it has to be in a month, two, five, a year? It was in your interest, some of you, to make peace with the situation. Now it's the hooligans who didn't make up with the situation. Who's the hooligans? To you who burned down the Federal Assembly? The media are hooligans? Four hours tonight, I'm looking at the charges of mostly children. "The hooligans set Belgrade on fire." What'd they do? Well, 100,000 Serbian houses went into the hands of Albanians yesterday. That's no news to anyone. That's why I see these two approaches to the Serbian government. [[Applause]] I can't say anything against what the Prime Minister says, a little bit more radical, a few months back, and what I can say now -- it's not right, it's okay. Is that the government? Is this the Prime Minister's telephone position or did you hold a session? Have you all voted unanimously for the measures the government will take? Are we withdrawing all ambassadors for two or three days or are we not returning them? Are we returning the mailman's jobs, first secretary? Are we returning an officer to the American Embassy or are we returning the ambassador once he has received his instructions? He has long been on American instructions, long since received instructions in Belgrade. You know that very well. We have friends in the world, it's that house with two entrances. One entrance closes us, don't pretend they don't lock it up for us. The European Union is closing the door to Serbia. Have you turned to your friends absolutely and completely? Whether sanctions and isolation await us because we do not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. You said -- if Tomislav Nikolic wins, there will be sanctions and isolation because he will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Is that what's waiting for us now? Did we get the state ready for that? Did you take any grains across the border with Macedonia a month ago? Will we have enough grain, gentlemen ministers? I really expect the Prime Minister to decide in the days ahead where he will go next. Mr. Prime Minister, you no longer have time for two chairs, or you will, I will only quote to you some of your coalition partners who directly led to the abduction of Kosovo and Metohija, as it was known that we will do nothing, or you will take the path you are telling us in public. That road is patriotic, it is heavy, thorny, but don't be afraid, a lot of thorns, we've already picked up a lot by cleaning up that road before you. Everyone is welcome on that road, and painful and difficult, but you'll see how proud that road is going and how you can calmly and freely watch the citizens on the street, even when there's nothing you can do to help them, but not a word, won't reprimand you because they know you've done everything in your power. I did not say in Athens on 8 February 2005 that the priorities of my policy are European and Atlantic integration, Boris Tadic said. Where is Kosovo and Metohija? I didn't answer questions like this. You think that diplomacy will preserve Kosovo and Metohija, of course, not by war, not by military and police use, that's what nobody said. You have two solutions, one is diplomacy, and the other is war. Did we preserve Kosovo and Metohija through diplomacy? Is the position of the President of the Republic that we should now be at war to defend Kosovo and Metohija? If there are only two ways to preserve Kosovo and Metohija, if there is one diplomacy and another war, if diplomacy has failed, what does the President of the Republic of War mean to preserve Kosovo and Metohija? What's your impression? Will we ever face the dilemma of Kosovo or the European Union, will we have to define ourselves? The answer – I think such a terrible dilemma, a bit of a morbid dilemma, will not be placed in front of Serbia. The most important role in our processes is the role of young people. I respect my ancestors and the Kosovo myth, but it is much more important for me to have the future of my children and enter the European Union. These are statements by the President of the Republic, there are thousands who have told Albanians that they will not be punished whatever they do, which they have told the European Union whatever you do, Serbia will listen to you, Serbia will follow you. Serbia must show concern for its people. We must make it clear and loud that we will never leave any Serbian citizen behind, not on one day's departure to Kosovo and Metohija, but on absolute engagement. It was cynical yesterday to hear one of the ministers say we realized that Serbs in Kosovo can deal with agriculture and that they need agricultural machinery. If that's why it was supposed to go to Kosovo and Metohija, why you didn't ask here in Belgrade what was important. You should know that no one sleeps there tonight. I would like none of us to sleep peacefully, not because he doesn't know if someone is going to hit his car with a stone as it passes the streets of Belgrade, but because he knows that part of his body is in Kosovo and Metohija, part of his soul in Kosovo and Metohija. If you all realize that our soul is part of Kosovo and Metohija, I'm not worried about fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. If you all realize that the child of a man from Prilujje is your child, and does not have to be educated in Switzerland, but to provide him with peace, security and security, then I do not worry and fear for the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, but don't attack those young Serbs anymore because they have illuminated Serbia's face today. None of us organized them today, and they had magnificent gatherings all over Serbia. They showed the youngest, the ones we always think of, so maybe sometimes we don't go to the end in some moves, we think of young people who don't need it, who need peace, and they show us today that they understand the situation much better than we do, that they care much more about Kosovo and Metohija. [[Applause]] Maybe they took the burden off our backs today, maybe they told these gestures today – not you when you're not defending Kosovo and Metohija to justify yourself to us. No, we approve, you defend Kosovo and Metohija. Defend you, our fathers, so we as our fathers don't have to defend Kosovo and Metohija. Any state work you can do, don't leave it to your children, leave them honor, pride, leave them part of the property, who defends you, but don't leave them jobs, especially the ones you could, and you shouldn't have done it. We call on Mivas, citizens of Serbia, I guess I don't have to invite you to the rally Thursday, here, at 5:00, to show what Serbia thinks of kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija. It's not those pictures you sent to the world tonight, you broke five windows on some embassy. On one side, Albanians hug and kiss the European Union's flag until they start shooting, and then all the world's televisions shut down the cameras, and on the other hand, Serbian savages broke five windows in Belgrade. Five glasses for 15% territory? They could have broken 15 windows, for every percent of the territory by one glass, that would have been well accepted in Europe. Count the calendar from February 17th until the day we release Kosovo and Metohija. It's better for me than for someone to kick us out of here and get someone who can fight for Kosovo and Metohija, we have a historical responsibility. We wanted to be MPs, we thought it'd be nice, it'd be nice. It's not nice, it's not comfortable. Ministers, now you see how difficult the ministerial work is. Now show yourselves a hero! It's easy to distribute the budget, it's easy to use power in the campaign, it's easy to rob people, it's easy to help people with state money, it's hard to defend people, especially to defend them from someone who's very strong. When you go to the defense and you know someone's very strong, what makes you do it? Pride, tradition, history, generations. I would be ashamed of my children and my grandchildren if I didn't do anything for Kosovo and Metohija. I'm not asking what my personal price is. I'm not asking for any of you to sacrifice, not to ask for radicals, by conscience, as your conscience would be, and as you consider your family, so look at Serbia. Serbia is not without Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore, in the end, when our children are already speaking – with all their heart for Serbia, let them speak – with all their heart for Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15412	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivica Dacic, as head of the SPS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15413	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS will support this decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to declare all acts of the so-called interim institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, not because we consider it to be the best, because we have neither participated nor consulted, simply so as not to violate the state and political unity that is needed at this time. We have spoken repeatedly that Serbia is only as strong as it is unique, unfortunately it has proved more than once that Serbia has not been strong because it has not been unique. I must note that what happened yesterday in Pristina is only one end of the process that has long begun, a process of separatism that lasts for a few decades or centuries, which continued terrorism, by forming the Kosovo Liberation Army, which was continued with the ultimatum from Rambuje in 1999. I would remind myself that the then state leadership of Serbia was in front of a similar ultimatum to this Ahtisaari plan, that the ultimatum from Rambuje was then signed, so-called ultimatum. "Kosovari" would have the right to a referendum in 2002, and Kosovo would still be independent in 2002. Because Serbia did not accept the ultimatum from Rambuje, Serbia was bombed. The logical trail of all this is Ahtisaari's plan and yesterday's declaration of independence for the so-called Kosovo. It is not the first time that the Albanian assembly in Kosovo and Metohija declares independence, but it is the first time that it has open public support for major forces, primarily the United States. Of course, that independence would never have been declared if it had not been for the prearranged way of ending this process. I am pleased that some government officials today speak in a similar dictionary as was said in those years when the country was defending itself. It was clear then, and I think it is even clearer, unfortunately today, that in fact Serbia was bombed in 1999 not because of the then state leadership policy, not because of the world's involvement, not because of the lack of democracy and human rights, not because of the exodus of Albanians, but because Albanians wanted an independent state of Kosovo. I must say with regret that this is one satisfaction for the policy that was conducted during that period, because it doesn't matter who is in power, it matters what policy is towards Serbia. What has changed policy towards Serbia in ten or eight years since the change of power in Serbia? Nothing, she's still sharp. Today we have come to an official unilateral declaration of independence for Kosovo and Metohija by some Western great forces. We've wasted our time for seven or eight years accusing each other of what he was guilty of. We've wasted our time not believing this might happen. I'm not sure what the effect would be, would the effect be the same if we had accepted together that constant of Serbia's national and state policy, which is that any state leadership of Serbia could never accept Kosovo and Metohija's independence, regardless of which function, it could only do so once, and would indeed end its political career. Politicians in Serbia have no choice but to follow national state interests when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. That's why I want to say that we were right and now we're right, in 2007 and 2008, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We are right because Serbia is on the side of the international legal order. Those who rob us of Kosovo and Metohija are destroying the international legal order. The most important thing is to realize that it's an occupation of the work of our territory. The most important thing is that Serbia never gives consent to the kidnapping of a piece of our territory. What has been kidnapped can and must be returned at any time in the future, but it can never return to what Serbia wants to agree to with its signature. We didn't give consent in 1999 either, I hope you won't give consent this year either. If you want such a state unity and political unity, the SPS will be part of that state and political unity, but if you want such unity, I urge you to talk about it. I call on you, too, as well as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, to discuss as soon as possible, because we from the opposition parties did not have a chance to see what the Action Plan adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia for the situation. The declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija has passed, and we want to know what we support and whether we support it at all. Of course, we should go to the annulment of what was yesterday in Pristina, of course we should go to the fight on the international plan, of course we can't be friends of those who have already run today to declare what they agreed the other day – to recognise the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, of course we need to be the biggest friends who have supported us at these most difficult times, of course we need to take measures against these countries. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the President of the Republic of Serbia, is asking for guarantees for the security of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija from those in charge of Resolution 1244, from KFOR, NATO, from the great force, from the UN Security Council, including our friends Russia. I know it's hard to talk about without someone declaring you a warlock, but what happens if there is an attack on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? I don't see the Secretary of Defense here. I see the Secretary of State of the Interior. I want to ask you, is our army and police in a state of increased combat preparedness, or is it just because of those on the Belgrade streets? It is our opinion from the SPS that if KFOR cannot or will not protect Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia cannot calmly watch exodus and attack Serbs and that it must intervene our army and police. We cannot hope that someone else will protect the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and that we will send them moral support from here. In Serbia, we believe that the unity of political parties should include something called consensus on national and state interests. Yesterday I saw that in Pristina, it seems to me that Natasa Kandic from one of our NGOs was present to declare Kosovo and Metohija independence. I want to make it clear to you that we will advocate the ban on all political parties and NGOs that recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. This is contrary to our Constitution and no one has the right to do so because there is not one Albanian in Kosovo and Metohija who will not support Kosovo and Metohija's independence. It seems that only the Serbs have the tendency to take the most of their own. Of course Kosovo will declare it not a precedent. They will say this does not apply to any other example in the world, they will say that international law can only be violated on the case of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Whether Kosovo will be precedentd or not, it does not depend on whether these regions have a historical right to seek independence, but solely on the favor of large forces. No one can deny that the way to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, without the UN Security Council's decisions, is unilaterally, that it is precedent. The precedent will be a great opportunity for other places in the world to take advantage of the right that someone today gives to Albanians in Kosovo. If this process ends with Kosovo and Metohija's independence, recognising by the UN General Assembly, we should call on the National Assembly of Republika Srpska to also declare the independence of Republika Srpska and to accept that independence. Why would Serbia be the only polygon for violations of international law? Or can't we even say that here because I see some people looking at me the wrong way? Also, as Croatia will recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence among the first, there must be our demand for the autonomy of Serbs in Croatia. Where's the Republika Srpska Krajina? The autonomy of Serbs in Croatia must monitor Croatia's entry into the European Union. The SPS will participate in all activities that are part of the political parties' agreement, to show our people's unique position on Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, it's not good for our people who want to express a protest on the street, among which there are, of course, those who express it in a slightly stronger way and our police, journalists and everyone else. Last night, as I was in Kosovo and Metohija and in Kosovo Mitrovica, while I was waiting to join the television programme, I saw news, and it seems to me that on some media the main news was that a kiosk had been robbed in the Student Square, windows on McDonald's were broken, and some traffic lights and half-panned glass were destroyed on some embassies. It was more news than declaring independence for Kosovo and Metohija. I have no intention of defending anyone who attacked, or our police ordered to defend those who declared Kosovo's independence and the Metohija. I also want to ask you -- what did you expect Serbian citizens to throw flowers at these embassies that declared Kosovo and Metohija's independence? I call on Serbian citizens not to clash with the police, with journalists and with our people working in those places, but to show their anger to those who are guilty. I call on police to not have to increase the battle effort on protesters in Belgrade, but to prepare to defend the Serb people, along with the military, in Kosovo and Metohija. Are they hooligans or not? Perhaps some of these people set fire to this congregation, which we are now sitting in, October 5, 2000. They weren't hooligans then, and the hooligans were when the American and Slovenian embassies fell. I don't justify them conflicting and hurting both them and the cops. Do we have an understanding of the motives that led to this? I think there were a few people in Belgrade. Why? Because they're waiting for a state leadership deal. Do you want to channel these protests or will they continue to take place on the streets on their own? Of course there's a big protest to be organised. I think all of this should have been done before. We spoke before and in advance that we will not send the military and police to Kosovo and Metohija, we said – feel free to declare independence, we will do nothing. That's when many of you opened the Mercator, and now we're tearing it down. Minister Goran Svilanovic opened Merkator, and today we have a completely different political situation. All we're doing today was doing it earlier, before declaring Kosovo and Metohija independence. The government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to create all conditions to ensure the survival and survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. This will not be easy, among other things, which is a very difficult daily life for people in Kosovo and Metohija. It is easy to reach Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecana, should go to Serb enclaves that were next to those who savaged and declared Kosovo and Metohija's independence yesterday. Yesterday I had a chance to see it when I went through Pristina on my way to Gracanica. I want to express my admiration for the Serbs who stayed to live there and who were on the North Mitrovica Bridge yesterday, they are more courageous than 99.99% of the people in Serbia who deal with politics and lead the state. We can't betray them. Therefore, the SPS will, of course, form part of that state and political unity. Serbia should never accept any independence from Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia should always consider Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of our territory and this should not be a topic that political parties should argue about. If we lose the state, then the parties themselves won't matter to us. I call on the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of Serbia, all state authorities, to behave responsibly at this time. We are ready to contribute to political and state unity, to contribute to the long-standing fight for the return of Kosovo and Metohija to the state frameworks of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure Serbia was right before and now. There's separatism and terrorism at work. Serbia is the only country in the world that is taking away part of the territory in this way. A serious state policy at this point means a deal for everyone. That is why I expect that in the coming days we should not only consider the Action Plan, not only organise the myths spoken of, but that the state has a good estimate that measures should be taken against those states that recognise Kosovo's independence and Metohija before international courts, which measures should be taken on the internal political scene, in order to preserve the stability of which the collapse at this time would be harmful to national and state interests. Of course we are the opposition and of course we don't support the government, but if something is in the state and national interest, we're willing to support it all. I expect a more serious, stronger and responsible attitude towards the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, above all to help Serbs stay in Kosovo and Metohija. As far as the SPS is concerned, nothing will ever change our view that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, and we will continue to treat the fact as such, our committees in Kosovo and Metohija will work as if nothing happened yesterday. I expect other state authorities to do the same. Serbia is only as strong as it is unique. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers, President of the Republic, you are, among other things, the most responsible for state and political unity. If you run such a policy, you will have behind you and the support of those parties who think it is important to have a moratorium on political action at the moment until Serbia gets a single national policy. Kosovo is Serbia. That's how it was when we started this whole story at the end of the 1980s, and that's how it's gonna stay, no matter who's in power in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15414	I thank Mr. Dacic. The word has been issued by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as head of the LDP parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15415	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Kostunica, members of the government today, politicians in Parliament are talking about history, looking for an excuse for what Serbia is experiencing and what our citizens are experiencing in it at the moment. The statesmen speak of the future and take responsibility. I wish there were more statesmen in the Serbian Parliament tonight and fewer politicians. I cannot take responsibility for everything that has faced us with such a great and terrible historical defeat. The LDP parliamentary group can't do that either. Neither can those angry people who are destroying the city in which we are sitting, believing that this is how they defend Serbia and Kosovo in Serbia, even though they will be ashamed one day, as many who have done so before today are ashamed. I think we must have the strength to send the citizens of Serbia a message tonight about Serbia's future and that at the same time we must have the strength to look at our own failures, in order to finally stop the future of our people and this country from being an ugly image of the past we have lived through. This isn't our first defeat, unfortunately, a lot of them are after us. This defeat may be the most painful, because it breaks so much injustice, so much cruelty, and because each one of us feels like a victim, but also because through this defeat each of us has to pay the price for the mistakes that our country has made in time to forget, but that we cannot erase. Instead of forgetting, we need courage to face one wrong policy. This wrong policy makes us bound to change today. We've heard a lot in speeches and Prime Minister and party representatives who have led this country in the past. At one point, I was part of the government in Serbia. I believed that we would be able to correct the mistakes we inherited from our predecessors. I believed that we might be able to bring Kosovo back to Serbia, but I was also sure that Kosovo would not return to Serbia unless Serbia itself changed before that. Serbia's interest cannot be defended by offering to society every day excuses and excuses rather than the willingness to change that society. A year ago, we talked here about Marty Ahtisaari's plan. In July, we talked about the government platform. In December on the government's response to the end of the negotiations. Today we are talking about another document that the government offers to Parliament, but in both the second and third cases, as well as in a number of previous ones, we have been denied this simple issue of willingness to take responsibility for one policy. There is no society in the world that is in such deep agony that none of those who have taken responsibility for the management of this society are ready to go to the public and tell the truth. The LDP didn't come here today to Parliament to share the Assembly. She did not come to parliament to pour salt on the wounds of those who so hurt the Kosovo injustice. We came to Parliament to say that we are ready to take responsibility for the future of this country and to believe that in this time ahead of us, Serbia will be able to build itself with new values, better ideas, so beautiful and quality that it will be possible to truly believe in different ties between Kosovo and Serbia. Here in Parliament, we can talk about Kosovo as the basis of our national identity. In Parliament, we can talk about Kosovo as a political motive without which our political community does not have and everyone will be right in their own way. In the Serbian Parliament, we must not repeat that mistake that has been repeated so many times. What happened yesterday in Kosovo, we must view it as a consequence of the harsh failures, weaknesses and impotence that eventually faced us with such a profound historical defeat. Each people was in their own way faced with the dilemmas facing Serbia today. Each people responded as the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes today to Parliament. It is true, Mr Kostunica, that there is no state that would agree to the procedure to which Serbia was exposed on February 17th, so yesterday. But it is also true that on some other issues, unfortunately, Serbia is so different from all other countries. Today is the international right on our side and the Charter of the UN and the Helsinki Document and Resolution 1244, but unfortunately so many times so far we have gone beyond our international obligations and have been unfair to others, that others have felt that freedom that we once gave ourselves and have trampled on the same international right to which we are today. For eight years, Serbia cannot change, and over the eight years, Serbia is corrupting its international position. We didn't get an answer to a few difficult questions. How is it possible that we lost all historical and traditional partners and protectors? How is it possible today that France, which we have raised the Memorial of gratitude here in our capital, has more understanding for the Albanian people than for the Serbian people? How can more understanding for Albanians have English, whose king pulled the sword out of his cover in World War I and said he would not bring it down until Serbia is a free country again? How is it possible that the cradle of democracy, which was the inspiration of many politicians here in Serbia, I mean America, today has such an arrogant attitude towards us and why is that? Those questions got their answers and each of us in the O.R. knows them. The answers we are obliged to give Serbian citizens are seen in the future in front of us and the issues that have been inherited. How can Serbia affect Kosovo's reality? Does repeating the phrase that Kosovo is a false state? Why do we deal with lies? Unfortunately, Kosovo is an unfortunate truth for Serbia, sad, tragic, but it is true. Can we believe that oaths and calling on myths will be a rational foothold enough for that desired outcome, which Serbia has the right to do. We're not accusing anyone today. I think the burden of responsibility that many have escaped from tonight in this debate is sufficient and that words should not be spent on it. We ask for the courage to look at the time ahead of us and to send Serbia a message that in that time it will be free of those prejudices and mistakes that have cost so dearly, which were finally laid out in yesterday's day. As Serbia is in pain with Kosovo, Croatian Serbs are in pain with Knin, Bosnian Serbs are in pain with Sarajevo, Bosniaks are in pain with Srebrenica, not to list further all these terrible political outcomes that began 20 years ago. We didn't part with that policy. No one will do that on our behalf. We have to do it ourselves. It's good, Mr. Kostunica, that at least in one sentence you appealed to peace in the country. This is what we need today and we need arrangements, but agreements can't be made with the idea of not asking a question of responsibility for what happened and what brought us into this position, and I can't agree without ambition to finally change Serbia. Your decision to withdraw an ambassador from the United States is better than the decision to end diplomatic relations with the United States, but we all know that sooner or later we will have to go the way Serbia has already taken on October 5, 2000, on the way back to the world and therefore we cannot reconcile with those points of your proposal to Parliament in which Serbia is confronting Europe. There is no other Europe than the one we are directed at and however difficult it is for us at this point to have the strength to talk to this Europe. Finally, this is what those people who stayed to live in Kosovo commit to, those people who believed that more security and happiness should be sought in such a Kosovo, because they saw that those who went before them through Serbia in 1999 and ended up in the periphery of our municipalities and cities as citizens of the second and third order. We are ready together to work to change this country. We do not need you, Mr Kostunica, nor you, Mr Nikolic, in order for us to say that Kosovo's unilateral independence is unacceptable for us. We don't justify it with phrases. It is unacceptable for us because we are aware of the great truth. There is no happiness in Kosovo without the reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian people. As we have so many times been against unilateral procedures in Belgrade, we are today against a unilateral procedure in Pristina. For us, what happened yesterday was a great humiliation. In that humiliation, in addition to that Albanian one-sidedness, there are so many wrong policies that have destroyed us for the past 20 years and that still has the courage to ask Serbian citizens to understand. We do not agree to the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo, nor to the government's message that governments in Serbia are changing, that Serbia is shrinking, that the Serbian people are losing their historic spaces, but that the policy that produces it survives unpunished and ambitious, even more than it was until yesterday. Unfortunately, this is a proposal for measures that we recognise in what the government has passed on to Parliament. We have to think about the world. Serbia is a place there, Serbia is a place in the EU and Serbia, at last, a place such as it has never been able to say for itself – a place in the Balkans where there will be no source of crisis, hotspots, inability, unpreparedness, but courage and determination to look at itself. We need neither Romanians nor Bulgarians nor Macedonians, nor Cyprus to understand how alone we are. No one protected us. Some have recognised Kosovo. Those who don't feel the need to do it will never do it. Serbia will not deal with this, but unfortunately, this irreparability will not stop the process of Serbia's collapse and we should think about it. At least I mean further loss of territory. I mean, the rest of my life. We need to think about all those people living in Kosovo today who expect reasonable policy from Serbia. The Mittinzi will pass, in 1999 and I was in a party that broke. Somebody tell me what kind of problem will be solved, so I'll be the first one to throw a rock in the LDP window. We all know very well that's not true. Let these days ahead of us be given our willingness to make peace, but not with the policy that destroyed us, but with the fact that Serbia needs statesmen and the future, not politicians and historical justifications. We want to agree with the Albanians and believe that change in Serbia is the way to this big deal. One-sided independence is unacceptable to us because it brings nothing good to Kosovo, and the policy offered today by the government is an alibi policy and an unpreparedness with which we do not want to rest and to which we will not agree. To those who think about the myths, we propose to them to discuss the elections, because we believe that there is enough power in this country, potential and courage to live in the future, instead of running into the past, which is as if we are condemned by the will of politicians who do not have the courage today, even, even to look back on that past and say where they have sinned in it. Anyone who wants to change Serbia can count on our support, anyone who wants to talk to Albanians can count on our support. Whoever expects us to make peace with the kind of policy we were exposed to yesterday, don't knock on our door. Whoever counts that we will withdraw from these proceedings and go beyond the hypocrisy of government policy, let him see how we have responded every time so far to something like that. We will today defend our policy in Parliament and in no way support each other's exclusion. And Kosovo, Kosovo has suffered so many times so far, that this loss will make its meaning greater, and the people of Kosovo, may they forgive their country that has been unable to make their lives more valuable and more significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15416	Thank you. The word is Nenad Canak, as head of the Vojvodjani Parliament Club. Here you go, Mr. Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15417	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, today I believe there are no indifferences in Serbia. Today I believe that everyone has at least a few questions in them, and probably what brings us all together is – what do you do now and which way do you go now? I don't think it's some complicated question for the simple reason that it's enough to take into the hands of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it clearly states which way to go. I'll remind you, this constitution was brought only a year and a few months ago. Here are the people who have sat down and decided about it, so what they wrote then, I believe, is behind it today, and that is, starting with the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija, in all internal and external political relations. Therefore, the state authorities have a constitutional obligation to act in accordance with the law. When the territory of a country is illegally and unlawfully declared statehood, when it secedes from the country of origin, it is perfectly logical that the government should introduce an emergency on at least that part of the territory, where the problem has arisen and then intervened by military and police force and bring the matter into the constitutional framework. So there's no dilemma about what to do. I don't see what the problem is with the current government of President Kostunica arresting Mr. Thaci, Mr. Sejdiu, bringing them to justice and thus showing that Serbia does not agree to this legal violence. Of course, all I'm saying is the way it might have been if that government had ever wanted Serbia to be a legal state, ever had a desire to do anything about Kosovo. The argument for what I'm saying now is in Article 182 of the same Constitution, which says: "The essential autonomy of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija", I would not be opening the question of why the AP Kosovo and Metohija in the Constitution have essential, and Vojvodina's senseless autonomy, "it will be governed by a special law that is adopted under the procedure provided for the change of the Constitution". Is that law passed, Mr. Prime Minister? Did he find himself in congregation procedure? I can't hear your answer, and I can't read anything from your face. The Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 3, clearly states when there will be a choice and says, "The elections for MPs in the National Assembly will be asked about by the President of the Republic, so that they will be held at the earliest within 60 and no later than 120 days of the date of entry into force of this law. The election for the President of the Republic will be discussed by the President of the National Assembly... The elections for MPs in the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina will be discussed by the National Assembly until 31 December 2007... The election for committees in the local self-government units will be discussed by the President of the National Assembly by 31 December 2007... ''Where does it say when there will be elections in the southern Serbian province? Where does it say when elections will take place in Kosovo? It does not say when the elections in Kosovo will be, because they were not intended to be held under this constitution, which was brought in one vandal and savage manner, by stealing votes in a referendum, by misleading Serbian citizens about its content, and all because of the fact that a clause in this constitution would be thrown out in which the abandonment of a piece of territory is considered an act of high treason. There's no such thing in this constitution. This constitution was designed to do this, and that is why all this lamentation over Kosovo's fate makes all those who took part in the creation of this constitution very dishonest. Some say we should now support citizens in Kosovo who respect the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia and not allow the international community to decide on the fate of Kosovo. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in April 1998 there was a referendum – were you in favour of the international community participating in resolving the Kosovo issue? More than 97% of Serbian citizens said – no, we are talking about Kosovo exclusively in Serbia. Then what happened? It happened that only a year later, Kosovo was abandoned, by the same ones who were so keenly insisting that international forces were not brought to Kosovo, or anything like that, and thus Kosovo was derived from the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. There is no legislative, judicial, or executive authority of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo. The Republic of Serbia has no authority over Kosovo. Now I ask the question – then what is all this for? Is it perhaps because we would draw the citizens' attention once again from the government's inability to solve the basic life problems of Serbian citizens? Is that why we would repeat this same topic again on which the downgraded values were acquired through history in Serbia's premises? I will remind you, today 2008, 20 years ago (when the largest number of those in the streets of our cities demonstrate that they want to give if they need to give their lives for the protection of Kosovo and Metohija) we had in the cities of Vojvodina's rally on Kosovo, where the truth about Kosovo was spread by bringing local leadership down, to culminate in the October 6th 1988 'Yogurt Revolution', when the legitimate and legal leadership of the AP Vojvodina was brought down. Has Vojvodina ever been rehabilitated? I'll remind you, even the Chetniks are rehabilitated, but the Vojvodina is not. It is clear when it comes to the illegal vote of independence, of course it is against the law, that no one is questioning, and was it legal when constitutional order was brought down in Vojvodina in 1988, when its autonomy, as well as the autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija, was it legal? Has the government acted legally when it is the orders of the Serbs in the southern Serbian province not to participate in the institutions of the same Serbian province? Isn't that a repeated story about Serbs from Croatia, who have been told -- don't accept plan Z4, wait for the exodus, wait for the persecution, wait for the evictions, then I guess your question will finally be solved. Is this message that this government sends to people in Kosovo when it tells them – do not engage in institutions that will decide your fate? Can anyone really think that today when peace and security are threatened in Serbia on the streets by hooligans who break up other people's property once again under the eternal pronunciation of patriotism, once again under the Serbian flag that embarrasses their bestiality and once again in a situation that absolutely no one can do anything about it, because once again patriotism is more important than anything? I have one question, in his speech, Mr. Kostunica, Dr. Vojislav, Prime Minister of Serbia, said the US and EU are responsible for Kosovo's independence. The vandalising of US facilities, their embassies, and Slovenia's embassies as EU chairman followed. Was Mr. Prime Minister's speech his personal opinion or his private attitude, and is it, Mr. Prime Minister, the way it turns out to be fingertips? What do we do if you start calling names? What window to expect a bullet from? And that is why when we remember that some say that Serbia is gone without Kosovo and Metohija, I would remind you that Serbia was created without Kosovo and Metohija in 1878, and Kosovo and Metohija were returned to Balkan wars in 1912. It reminds me very much of the words of Slobodan Milosevic when he spoke – Serbia will be unique or it will not be, so we have barely managed to save Serbia from its rescuers, to keep at least a stone on the stone from it. Seven answers have already been given at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, which has been broken just like this policy, which I now criticise. Independence from Serbia has not only been given to those who did not ask for it, and when we consider why, then we must look for an answer in all of us in Serbia and in the eighth answer. That eighth answer is not, as some might think of the Vojvodina. The eighth response is the internal arrangement of Serbia, its democratisation and decentralisation, its comparison of the norms of the civilized world. If it doesn't come to that, I'm very worried. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15418	The word is Hope Kolundji, head of the DS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15419	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the DS will, of course, vote for a decision to confirm the Government of Serbia's decision to repeal the decisions of the KIM provisional authorities, to declare a unilateral declaration of independence. As far as DS is concerned, this decision-making measure is what is the measure of what happened. So, for us, unlike some other MPs, this decision does not contain too little, nor contains too much. It is an act of a state which, based on respect for its own constitution, the resolution of this assembly, international law, respects its right to protect its territorial integrity, and in that sense it is not disputed for us and we do not even feel the need to explain it and to seek further arguments for it. What this decision opens, but in our view it may not be a topic for today, but it is a topic that we will have very quickly, is a question of further steps by Serbia, which are about, above all, the continuation of the defence of territorial integrity on the one hand, and on the other hand for citizens living on KIM, for the protection of their lives, for the protection of their rights, for those who have left, but also for us, it is also a question for the citizens of Serbia. And of course what happened in every Serbian citizen is a very strong emotion and every emotional reaction, in a way it's normal and natural. What Serbia's citizens expect from all the competent state institutions, in our deep confidence, is not to react emotionally, but to react responsibly, wisely and wisely, because the time ahead will not be easy. The decisions we will have to make will be very complex and their consequences will be felt over the long years ahead of us and in this sense, regardless of what we may be looking for historical reasons for what happened and why this happened, and we can look for various culprits for what happened and it will drag us away in the past sometimes than we can think – but what we need now to do is to make very private (no excessive emotions, therefore, as people who have taken responsibility for the citizens of Serbia) take moves that, on the one hand, protect and try to restore and achieve Serbia's integrity, which Serbia has the right, but on the other hand, taking care of how citizens of KIM, their quality of life, their safety, and all of Serbia's citizens. In that sense, on behalf of the DS, I would also finish, expecting a debate on the package of measures the government has prepared for the moves ahead and in fact, we think that this is the moment when we are going to talk about what Serbia must do, about what Serbia must not do and what Serbia, precisely because of all its citizens, must not forget, therefore, the competent institutions must be responsible, not emotionally. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15420	The word is Susan Grubjesic, as head of the G 17 Plus Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15421	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, yesterday the Kosovo Assembly passed a resolution declaring Kosovo an independent state. Today and here, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should declare this decision invalid and confirm the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to annul all acts and all acts declaring by the temporary authorities of self-government in Kosovo unilateral independence. The fact is, and I will repeat that, and every time we spoke here in the Kosovo Assembly, I repeated that, that the Serbian negotiating team has made great efforts to reach a compromise. During 2007, Serbia faced great pressure from NATO's main members to co-operate in the process of Kosovo's final independence. Serbia has decided to oppose political and diplomatic pressure. In contrast, Serbia has found a strong ally, Russia, and has managed to boost certain divisions within the EU. The problem, however, was and remained with the government in KIM since 1999, in fact, holding the United States and the most prominent NATO members. In that sense, Serbia's resistance was predominantly formal. This resistance was important everywhere where Serbs were left to live, especially in northern Kosovo, where the parallel institutions under Belgrade's supervision were being introduced for several years. In diplomatic resistance to independence, KIM, an official Belgrade, insisted that international law guarantee his sovereignty and the unchangeable of borders. This attitude was important as long as Western countries were ready to resolve the issue within the UN frameworks, where Serbia could count on Russia and China's veto. However, during a visit to Albania in June 2007, US President George Bush said that at a certain point and what we must say sooner -- enough is enough, Kosovo is independent. The statement meant a clear promise that Kosovo would be independent, regardless of the results of the negotiations and possible opposition from Russia. After the statement, it became quite clear that the United States and its European allies would recognise an independent Kosovo, with or without the support of the Security Council. Kosovo's independence represents a precedent in the history of the UN's existence. This certainly is not a unique case, because there is absolutely nothing unique about the Kosovo case. There are dozens of territories in the world that want to declare independence in Kosovo's model. This independence represents the achievement of Albania's dream of an independent state, one step closer to achieving the "great Albania" project. Kosovo for the first time, to remind itself, declared independence on July 2nd 1990 and then no one accepted such a declaration. Unfortunately, the fact is that yesterday's declaration of independence has a far greater chance of being accepted. But those who recognize independence must be aware that only new problems can follow, and at least a lasting solution is likely to be found. The most important thing is that Serbia will not recognise KIM's independence, but will treat it as its territory. Even if all European countries recognise Kosovo's independence, that recognition would continue to leave a number of issues and problems open. Under these circumstances, only a declaration, and even a confession doesn't solve anything. Those who think this is the end of Yugoslavia's collapse or that this solves the last remaining problem of the Balkans are in serious error. The Serbian ethnic majority in KIM has long been lost. Let historians determine exactly when it happened. I can't speculate. Today, KIM is living in a majority population that has taught generations to see a blood enemy in Serbian authorities, and that Serbs are viewed as a foreign element, which should be evicted as soon as an opportunity arises. So it's clear that the model of cohabitation here is not applicable. At least not in the immediate future. Despite the semi-colonial situation in KIM, which was seduced in 1999 by the establishment of UNMIK and KFOR authorities, colonial managers failed to create a multiethnic society, even gave up in practice from this goal after a while. Moreover, there was an eruption of ethnically motivated violence by Albanians against Serbs in March 2004. The Serbian government has been constantly representing the formula since 2005 -- more than autonomy, less than independence. The Serbian negotiating team agreed first to the province's full financial autonomy, then to Kosovo's intelligence -- 99% of the area and even membership in international organisations, except the UN organisation. Since this, even symbolic sovereignty is not allowed to Serbia by the international community and since the Kosovo Assembly unilaterally declared independence, there remains one interest in Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija that significantly exceeds all others. It is a question of more than a hundred thousand people in the area, members of people who consider Serbia a homeland, as well as a question of 200,000 Serbs who were exiled in the rest of Serbia in 1999. Since Serbia is unable to truly and fully restore Kosovo and Metohija to its state, regardless of how much it wants to do so, it is most important to ensure that these people return, security and freedom. The international community of the sea, although it has not done so far, has absolutely and unreservedly supported the return of the refugee Serbs to their hearths. The truth is, it should be said, that Kosovo has never received a promise from the international community that it will immediately gain real independence. The international community and Albanian politicians in Kosovo are playing with this word. Western states are ready to use this word so that Albanian politicians can present to their electoral body that they have earned what they have promised. In fact, it is about supervised independence, similar to that in Bosnia, in which the EU High Representative will be some lord, Kosovo's protector, who will be able, without restrictions, to replace local politicians, to interfere in the affairs of all authorities. It's far from the usual concept of independence. The comparisons, not even 12 years after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, did BiH stop being an international protectorate. Similar can be expected in this independent Kosovo. Serbia will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, its territorial integrity and sovereignty will safeguard all democratic means, legal arguments and diplomacy. They will not resort to violence and war. It's a task that lies ahead of all of us. We should be persistent in our legitimate struggle for respect for international law. This fight will be long and hard, and therefore we need to remain together, rational, and above all, responsible. That's the minimum we can do for our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija. Some are trying to abuse Kosovo and Metohija again to promote their states, some are now even in the campaign. Whenever this was done with Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija were never worse. They need works, not big words, whatever they sound like. However, Kosovo and Metohija are not defended, what is certain – by senseless vandalism and the destruction of the cities in which we all live. Anger, indignation, disappointment over Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence cannot be expressed and must not be expressed by demolating windows, destroying parliamentary parties' premises, attacks on journalists, stoning embassies. Such phenomena can only make it harder for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and not easier. They need concrete assistance from the Serbian state, all its institutions and ministries. It is the only way for Serbs to stay in Kosovo and Metohija. Because if they leave, what do we need empty territory, even if it was 15%?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-02-18-0.u15422	Thank you. I ask, do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? No, I don't. Thank you. Before we conclude a single search into the motion for a decision, does Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a single search on the proposal for a decision by the National Assembly of Serbia to confirm the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to repeal the anti-legal acts of the provisional bodies of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija on the declaration of unilateral independence. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. As voting day today, Monday, February 18, 2008, at 21.42 minutes. We're going to vote. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision and before moving to a decision, a quorum should be established. I ask the MPs to raise their hands and the service to do the count. I find that the sittings are attended by 234 MPs and that there is a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the confirmation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to repeal the anti-legal acts of the provisional bodies of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija on the declaration of unilateral independence. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that 225 MPs voted in favour of the Decision. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to confirm the Government of the Republic of Serbia's decision to repeal the anti-legal acts of the provisional bodies of self-government in Kosovo and Metohija on the declaration of unilateral independence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Thank you and good night.
