ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which in the basic text says: "In the Law on Civil Servants, in Article 78(2), after the words 'a certain assessment 'is not satisfied'' are added to the words 'as well as if the authority or body responsible for setting up a civil servant accepts the public recommendation of the Protector for its resolution'." Namely, with this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, I suggested that article 1 be deleted. In the light of this amendment, I said next: "The protection of citizens has the legal authority to notify the public of the violation of the rights of citizens, and to ask the state authorities to take certain measures that have been taken by citizens' rights. Such a legal solution could serve the Citizens' Protector as the basis for dealing with political inexperiences. The Law on civil servants provides sufficient legal space for sanctioning and voicing the solution measure from the position and termination of the employment relationship, so that the legal basis is unnecessarily and legally-politically dangerous. "In response to this amendment, the Government states: "The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendments create legal assumptions for the resolution of a civil servant from a position if the authority or body responsible for setting up a civil servant accepts a public recommendation from the Civil Protection Officer for its resolution. Therefore, the legal reasons for discharging a civil servant from a position are not provided for that a civil servant may be relieved from the position if the re-behaving of which the Civilian Protector has already indicated results in the intention of a civil servant in a position to refuse co-operation with the Citizen's Protector or if it is established that an injury to the citizens has been done material or other damage to the larger proportions. This means that the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protection Officer to relieve a civil servant in a position for the reasons set out in the Civil Protection Act would not automatically lead to the discharge of a civil servant from his post, but would be possible for the authority responsible for the positioning of a civil servant, and therefore also for his resolution, to consider the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protector, and only if accepted, would that lead to the discharge of a civil servant from the position. Therefore, it does not state in the light of this amendment that accepting this proposal can lead to the account of the Citizens' Protectors with political insolents." The position and opinion of the SRS is that in this situation and in situations where we involve another state body in certain working and disciplinary proceedings between one and the other bodies would be unnecessary, harmful, and especially since there are political implications behind this, which could result in certain political resistances to a particular political party, or certain moves by a political party, and conflict, and in this case, the Citizens' Protector could be in a particular situation one lever to fight political insinuation. The government's opinion in this case is what it is. However, we must point to certain basic elements that regulate this law and certain positions that are related to the work of civil servants and point to one strategic document, which was adopted in 2004. It is about the State Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia. This national strategy for state administration reform in the Republic of Serbia should be the basis for this government and for all governments so far. Unfortunately, we have not had a realisation under this strategy and no government has yet joined the realisation of this national strategy since 2004. The reform of the state administration is a complex and long-term process, especially in transition countries. We are in a transitional period, if we have to take much more account, especially this authority, of the reform of the state administration, with more ground. First, in the human sense. I'll give you information that we had 8,100 officials in 2000, 2004 - 27,650 clerks, 2005 - 24,500, 2007 - 27,850, and in 2008, we'll end up with over 28,000. According to some calculations and some frameworks that are forecasted by budget rebalancing, perhaps even up to 28,500. In any case, we need to be concerned about the position of the state administration in terms of human resources. We know that our state administration is burdened with political games, political miles within that state administration. Every political party that came to power was bringing its political personnel, which were usually staying there, so here we are, in the position of having three and a half times as many civil servants today as we had in 2000. There have been certain changes at the level of the state organisation, the transition from federal to republican level, but that can't be an excuse for this number of people. We should also be concerned about not taking certain activities envisaged by the national strategy in terms of decentralisation of government, depolitisation and departementisation. We also need to talk about the rationalization of the state administration. Nothing seems to be done within the state authorities - human resources, financial, organisational, technical and any other. No one's talking about modernizing the state administration. No modern state administration, no young, educated and professional personnel, no progress, no development. What makes the state modernize, rationalize, train professionally and quality personnel in the state administration? Don't do anything. The only activity we have been able to hear in these five months since the government was formed is the Minister of State Administration's initiative and local self-government to reduce the number of workers in local self-government from 22,000 to 12.00-14,000. We could say that it is one of the good solutions, but it does not fit the concept of a national strategy for reforming the state administration. Without the full reconstruction and reform of the state administration, there is no individual solution. Or someone put out of action a national strategy for reforming the state administration. No one has the right to partially resolve it individually. In the SRS' principle debate, the minister of local self-government said it would not enter into such partial individual reforms (now local self-government) without entering a deeper cut in the state administration. Does this government have the strength to reform the state administration? There isn't. Is he in a good mood? There isn't. Does he have a strategy? There isn't. Does he adhere to this national strategy? He's not holding on. Who has the right to give up a valid national strategy? There's no one here. But it's obvious that this government can do whatever it wants. Minister, when you go out with individual solutions, you have to fit them into a specific strategy. Or change the strategy, adapt it to the current moment, position -- both in human resources and in financial terms, both in organisational and technical terms. To reduce just the individual number of people right now doesn't mean anything. What effects will we achieve? You say about a billion dinars. Let's see what that means on the republican level. What would that mean if we involved public enterprises? We have huge reserves here. What would it mean if we turned on the other state apparatus? What are the effects? That power must look at and change and adapt the national strategy and move on to a right, thorough and serious reform. This is how we solve it individually - we've achieved nothing. Furthermore, there are huge disproportionates in the salaries and profits of civil servants. This dissatisfaction, which now culminates in certain state bodies, will last for a very long time, while these proportions in earnings, in paid classes, do not change, do not adapt. The second and third paying classes are the most damaged. People with 25-30 years of work today work for 13,000, 14,000 to 20,000 dinars. People with experience, knowledge, serious access, etc. They live on the edge of existence. It's on the level of social assistance. They expect them to be reformers, that they will be innovators, that they will bear the development of the state -- let's not be distracted, there is nothing. So, Minister, you need to take this job seriously. Don't go into individual solutions, solve a national strategy at country level. Either you will act on this national strategy, start from decentralisation, decentralisation, depolitisation, go into rationalization and modernisation, or, without it, there is no luck in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10641	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10642	Dear Presidents, honourable Minister Markovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants, which is, in fact, a law that needs to continue the State Administration Reform Strategy, which was aimed at selecting civil servants in positions, when it comes to state administration authorities, in competitions. This law was passed by the National Assembly back in 2005, with the aim of implementing depoliticalisation in the state administration. The aim of the election in the state administration authorities in the contests was to remove the influence of political parties when setting up state officials such as ministerial assistants, such as other employees in state administration bodies. We are now facing this bill of law that has been prolonging this whole process for another year. When it comes to state administration, the Law on the Ministrys, which was brought directly ahead of the elections of this government of the Republic of Serbia, has further burdened the state administration by increasing the number of ministries compared to their number in previous governments, thus causing the need to increase the number of employees in the state's administration, when it comes to ministerial assistant positions and other positions in the ministries. One on key segments and principles in the State Administration Reform Strategy was precisely rationalisation in the state administration. We have debated here that it is absolutely certain that this proposal for a ministry law will not be possible. We face contradictions, we have on the one hand an increased number of ministries and an increase in the number of officials in the republican authorities, and on the other hand the announcement of rationalisation in local self-government, where there are a large number of employees in individual local self-governments. There is a question of how this rationalisation strategy itself will be effectively and consistently implemented. The Ministry Act itself, which was brought here, actually had the need for coalition partners to meet their political appetites by participating in the Republic government and in the republican authorities. Such a massive government, which, on a number of issues that are being raised in the country, shows itself to be incompetent and ineffective, further distances us from the State Administration Reform Strategy and the rationalisation principle. The State Administration Reform Strategy is also mentioned here by the previous speaker, Bhuha, and it is very important that we remind ourselves of it because it is a strong step towards solving the problem of state administration, and the criticisms of the state administration were mostly referred to on the one hand by citizens, on the other hand, by economic operators. The fact is that the state administration, when it comes to solving the key problems of citizens, the exercise of their rights, proved ineffective, slow, inefficient, in some cases incompetent, and in matters of economic operators, greatly made it difficult for businesses to operate precisely because their unprofessionalness, but also its incoherence (as it has repeatedly pointed out here, was also highlighted in the strategy itself) to require a deeper and stronger need to implement this strategy. There are high expectations from both the government and the Ministry of State and local self-government. During the first government, Vojislav Kostunica has been passed a series of laws that are currently aimed at implementing this strategy, such as the Law on Government, the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on State Administration. Of course, after that was a series of elections, the formation of a new government, and we faced more amendments when it came to the segment of the state administration. When it comes to the segment of local self-government, there have been new laws, which also led to the 2008 elections, but when it comes to the segment of the state administration, we have faced more changes to the laws that were passed during that period than there have been new regulations. The issue of functioning of the state administration and criticism at its expense by citizens and businesses is something that requires the need to open a more serious debate in the National Assembly as well. This bill, in addition to the fact that the time of the state administration's staff will be extended, i.e. persons who are to take a position in the state administration, choose on the basis of a public competition, not on the basis of appointments by the Government and individual other republican authorities, have two more segments relating to the functioning of the Staff Management Service, which is a very important newspaper in the case of the Civil Service Act, and through this law its activity is also extended to education relating to the fight against corruption in the state administration. Corruption at the state administration is something that, when it comes to the degree of corruption in general in state bodies, poses a major danger to the functioning of the state itself. The largest number of citizens, if they point out objections to the functioning of the state administration, besides the fact that they resent professionalism and urgency, is that corruption exists. I think, and I believe that such an opinion is shared by the minister, that there is no political party and there is no government official who has not received complaints from citizens about problems relating to this segment within the state administration, which is corruption. It is indisputable that the Staff Management Service and the High Official Council should deal with this problem and educate employees in the state administration in a way that this truly burning problem within the national authorities is eliminated. The second question is education at all in the state administration. That is the principle defined in the strategy itself, the professionalization of the state administration. If you start with the republican authorities, but also from local self-government itself, indeed a large number of employees in the state administration, especially when it comes to the demands of economic operators, it does not meet the greatest needs of an efficient market economy and themselves. Many times here, the need for a single counter in local self-government has been highlighted and that all demands of businesses, individuals, are resolved in one place, quickly, efficiently and within as short a time as possible. There are very few local self-governments who can boast that they have managed to establish their municipal administration in this way so that citizens' demands, when it comes to solving their specific problems, are resolved quickly, efficiently and in one place, and that what constitutes a basic requirement for local self-government and public authorities, the citizen does not wait and that his right is not being fulfilled in some long period, which could be questioned and may become unfounded. That is why it is very important that the professionalisation and modernisation of the state administration, I mean here and the administration within the local self-government, be accounted for and there we have to get answers and a clear vision -- how the government wants to realise these requirements. Education in local self-government and at all state administration is something that must become a priority in the coming period and I am convinced that this will certainly give effect if this concept is placed on sound foundations and if all that has been discussed in the previous period, both in the National Assembly and by certain organisations dealing with state administration and local self-government, is accepted. After 2001, we had one agency, I think it was called the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, which issued various brochures, various proposals on how to reform the state administration effectively and, when one monitoring of what this Agency was doing, we saw that there was no movement other than public declarations that it was important to reform the state administration because it had to be modern, efficient, fast, in the service of citizens, in the service of the economy, the administration that was spotlessly responding to what was happening in society, only at the level of certifications and individual brochures, which did not give effect in concrete life and concrete realization. This is what should be pointed out as one of the priorities that should be in the next period, because without an efficient and modern state administration, the whole policy created within the state bodies cannot be found in the public and in society. As regards the solutions to this amendment and the addition of laws relating to the proposals of the Citizens' Protector, the Citizens' Protector plays an extremely important role in society and we all supported his choice in the National Assembly (in any case, that is, the constitutional principle) and his public action. Reactions to citizens' demands, to citizens' letters, as regards the ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of the state administration, are the most directed towards the Citizens' Protector, who should act by his own actions to direct the state administration and individual bodies of the state administration of objections and suggestions, and in this case a proposal or a recommendation (as defined by law) to resolve those officials in the state administration who absolutely violate citizens' rights, or show an example of how one responsible representative of the state administration should not act. The protection of citizens has shown by its action and its activity the importance of its existence in the public. The key problem of this law, as I said at the outset, is to move this deadline back to December 31st, always the controversial retroactiveness of this norm, and we are facing that one important principle, depolitisation, rather than being implemented by the competition and election as soon as possible, is being re-translated and that is something that should not be supported and the reason why this law is not a good solution for this moment when it comes to the state administration of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10643	Thank you. Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the MPs of the NS support the amendment submitted by Milorad Buh. The amendment was good and there was no reason not to accept it. So, all of this, in the proposals for a law on civil servants in positions, dating back to a long time ago... It has been expanded several times, primarily because it is not carried out in the best way and constantly moving the deadlines. Practically, some of the solutions that date before the law entered are applied. A large number of civil servants are in a position to be chosen this way. These are the various directors of special organizations, their assistants, and we know that an extremely large number of special organisations and, apart from the secretary of state, all ministerial assistants should be state officials in office. Since the deadline on which they are elected is extremely long, five years old, the amendment by Milorad Buhe is good because, regardless of what legal solution should solve the depoliticalisation of these functions, the amendment speaks of state officials not being allowed to relax when elected on that deadline, whether they belong to a political party or not. I've come to understand the amendment of Milorad Buhe in that direction. The citizen's protector should follow his work and suggest, points out all the bad moves he's making. Of course, such control of civil servants in office is good. First of all, we know how government officials are elected. The act itself (which sometimes, when it comes to life, because we keep moving these deadlines) means it is chosen by forming a commission of representatives, for example. a special organisation where the choice is being made, then there is an expert man from, say, some professional institutions and, of course, a representative of the Staff Committee, who is also on the commission. Then out of a large number of candidates, there is a selection. There are certain conditions that must be met. It is often a state or judicial exam (if it is a competition where lawyers compete), as an obligation, so knowledge of computers, and many conditions, and then of those three candidates who are proposed for example. In a special organization, the Prime Minister determines who will be the director. So, I'd like to appeal to the minister who's here, and I think I've already come to this point once, that those competitions that are over, Mr. Minister, should be conducted that way, because if we continue to be in those places where the completed competitions have been placed directly by political officials, then we're going to keep this vicious circle spinning and we're never going to start. I said in my statement that a large number of civil servants are in a position to be chosen on the basis of a competition. So one must start with that. In some previous contact, I asked you to tell me how many of these competitions have been done, how many have been implemented and how many have been completed, and whether these special organisations will implement what has already been done in some period, I mean the competitions. So I'm saying there are special organizations where the competitions are over two years ago, and there's still V.D. Director. The NS supports this amendment to Milorad Buhe. It's extremely good. The fact is, it's very comprehensive for exactly the period when civil servants are placed in office, because their control must exist. They can't be chosen for five years and then behave however they want - the contest is over, we're elected for five years and then we do what we want. No, I don't. State officials have one very significant function, a very responsible function, both towards the government, both the citizens and the special organisations. As is known, all ministerial assistants are in that category. So they have to respond to both the minister and the entire ministry. Of course, the ministries are here to serve as Serbian citizens. So, the amendment is very good. Mr. Minister, I think I've read somewhere that you suggested, or you or someone else, I can't be completely precise, that the directors, the ones he's setting up, can't have a salary greater than 120,000 dinars. But does this apply only to public enterprises or to all special organizations? You said, "Where does the government set up?" If the directors of public enterprises are appointed by the Government, then it is logical that this also applies to special organisations, to various agencies. Because it is known that in these agencies it comes out of value even the salaries of the director of public enterprises. If that's what you want to do, then... I just don't know how you're going to do all this, because we know that civil servants are in position, so the directors are the first category, and then the second, third and fourth categories of civil servants are going to be in position, so I don't know how you're going to coordinate these legal frameworks, which you've provided for by the Law of Salutations, now and how you're going to manage to do it. Of course, it's probably easier for public companies, there are boards of directors, but I think you should be much more careful when it comes to special organisations and, of course, ministerial assistants. I would like to say once again and appeal to the minister that those competitions that have been completed and implemented to the end, it would be absurd for some new people to be imposed in these organisations, to have a party election, to satisfy one's appetites, party and any other, because the competitions are over, and to choose the best candidate, if it is our desire to go once with the implementation of this law. If we move that until December 31st next year, then we move again, and once again, and we don't enforce it, that law, Mr. Minister, is hardly going to live. I'm sure you'd like him to start the funeral as soon as possible. If we're going to compete, if there are such competitions, one has to start. Of course, because of the large number of people who need to be placed, the fact is that it can't be done all of a sudden. The fact is that it has to go through a certain period, you have to propose the best candidates. But you will make it easier for yourself and for the citizens of Serbia and for all these special organizations. The fact is that there are many, which is a great burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget. You will help and show your will to enforce the law on civil servants in place. So, once again, I support this amendment. I think he's very good. I think there should be control over the Protector of the Citizens, that through it something that may not possibly be good can be fixed. So someone has to control the work. You can't convince me that the prime minister, who sets them up based on this competition to be held, can fully control all these directors of special organizations. And we've seen that a large number of ministers say they don't know what salaries are in public enterprises or special organisations, so this amendment is one of the solutions to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10645	Thank you, Mr. Savior. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10646	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the meaning of my amendment is about the same as the meaning of Mr Milorad Buha's amendment. When it comes to this bill, it opens up a few basic questions here. First of all, I would like to remind the government and government's representative in general that the State Officials Act was passed in 2005 in a package with a number of laws to be implemented by the state administration in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law also includes the draft law on state administration and the draft law on civil servants and the draft law on the Protector of Citizens and the draft law on public agencies. All these draft laws were completed during 2004. At the end of 2004, at the Hotel Hayat, here in Belgrade, an international scientific conference was held at which these drafts of the law were under review, i.e. a public debate involving government representatives, representatives of the resolution ministry and people from the profession dealing professionally, or scientifically, with this problem. What is interesting is that the international conference was attended by the then head of the OSCE mission in Belgrade, Mauricio Masari. I think the OSCE has even funded, in part, the drafting of these draft laws, and there is great hope that when these laws come into force, the Serbian state administration will be much better, much more efficient, much cheaper than it was before. In 2005, the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, the Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Law on Public Agencyes were passed at the same time here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They had possible and good ideas, which were contained in those draft laws. Unfortunately, practice shows that today, at the end of 2008, more than three years after the entry into force of these laws, the situation in the Serbian state administration has not changed at all, we could even freely say that it is in humane terms much more difficult than it was before these laws were passed. What was the government trying to achieve by passing the Law on civil servants? The government wanted to depoliticalise the state administration, reduce the impact of daily policy and reduce the influence of political parties on the functioning of the state administration. Under the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants, political figures in the ministry should be only the minister and his secretary of state, what was once called the deputy minister. All others, therefore, including ministerial assistants, should be professionals, experts, people who do not depend on the change of government. A law on civil servants provides that civil servants, including these assistant ministers who are very important in each ministry, are to be appointed for five years by the government, but only after a public competition has been implemented. The public competition should have been a guarantee that the best personnel, the most professional, will not depend on the shift of the political elite in power, would indeed be placed on those positions. But after several months, it was clear that the Serbian government had no firm intention of actually applying what the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on State Administration says. We have already made several deadlines for implementing these public competitions and, behold, now the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to move that deadline even to 31 December 2009. This means practically that even four years after the Law on State Administration and the Law on State Servants is in force, we will not have the state administration as designed by these laws. Just to remind you, at a time when these laws were written, at the time of their adoption, the maltene was a general place (here, just to adopt these laws, the state of the state administration will immediately be improved) and, of course, very often and very intensively used by that daily political winged woman, that without the adoption of these laws, there is no speedy accession of Serbia to the European Union. We now see that the government obviously has no intention of implementing these laws in practice exactly as they are written. The government is now trying to give itself a free space to continue, in fact, bringing party personnel of political parties in power to the ministry, and that the principle of professionalisation, the principle of expertise in the functioning of the ministries, is being moved for a rather distant period. Because you will admit that if the law came into force in 2005, and you are now prolonging it even on 31 December 2009, there is indeed something serious that is not in work with the government's intention to depoliticalise, or professionalise the state administration. What is also being asked as a question, so in 2005, these laws were passed in the package, they were part of a reform legislative project that should, when it comes to the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, speed up the path of the Republic of Serbia on the path of European integration. The Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Law on civil servants was passed at the same time, written at the same time, at the same time a public debate was held, at the same time a debate was held here in the National Assembly. They were even published, if I'm not mistaken, in the same "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" in 2005. You knew by then (the government knew, I don't mean the current minister personally), the government knew what solutions were contained in the Law on the Protector of Citizens, what solutions were contained in the Law on Civil Servants. And now the government has remembered, here, at the end of 2008, that in the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was adopted at the same time almost the same time as the Civil Service Act, it says that the discharge of a civil servant in a position, as recommended by the Protector of Citizens, can result, so that a civil servant can be resolved and if recommended by the Citizens' Protector. So that solution existed in 2005. First of all, the question is, who are the people who have been redecorating these laws? So it is obvious that at that time there was no clear coordination when it came to the preparation of the Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Law on Civil Servants. If that coordination had been the case, it would not have been necessary to change the Law on Civil Servants now, but rather the provision would have been incorporated into the integrated version of the Law on Civil Servants. That's one question. So, the purely legal-technical issue of the quality of the laws proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The second question is much more serious. Here, it appears, opens up an institutional possibility for the Citizens' Protector to put pressure on civil servants and, on the basis of his recommendation, to be fired, i.e. to be relieved of civil servants who are in an appropriate position. The question is whether it's in the legal nature of the Protector of Citizens. The question is whether it corresponds to his responsibilities, whether it corresponds to the essence of an institution that should defend citizens from certain things that are not good in the state administration. There is one even more serious question, which is that the Serbian government is clearly giving itself this way too many free hands. There's too much in our laws, which are public-legal character, some dispositive provisions. There's too much freedom for the government. This is what the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants says, that is, in the context of the Government's reasoning, why it does not accept the amendment. He says a state official's discharge may take place on the basis of a recommendation from the Protector of Citizens. What does "can" mean? That means he doesn't have to. We again leave a very wide space for the government to decide whether or not to solve a civil servant. It may happen that in one situation, the government has resolved a civil servant in a position because it was proposed by the Citizens' Protector, and in another situation, the Government says - regardless of the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors, we do not want to resolve this civil servant. Now the question arises – how do you plan to achieve the basic legal principle, the principle of legal certainty, the principle of equal treatment? What are the criteria that the government will run when it decides whether to follow the recommendation of the Protector of Citizens or not? Are these personal sympathys or antipathies to a civil servant? Is that party membership? Whether corruption may arise in the government, so eventually a civil servant who is willing to give a certain amount of money will retain his position, and the Citizens' Protector can write recommendations whatever he wants. This is what is not good in the law on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. The government is given too much freedom to decide on the discharge of civil servants. That's not good. In laws that are of public-law character, the norms are probably imperative. So -- "must," "necessary," etc., not -- "can," "the government will decide on its own free will," etc. Such norms, dispositive, free, which leave great freedom of interpretation in practice, have no place in such laws. You know, the Civil Service Act, the State Administration Act, these are all your public-law laws. The norms are imperative, very clear, precise. There's no such thing as great freedom. This is not the Bond Relations Act, so if the parties agree otherwise, they can write something else in the contract than what is in the law. No, it has to be precisely defined here what the government can do in what situation. Now the question arises - if the Government really wanted to raise the authority of the Citizens' Protector by allowing a state official to be resolved on the basis of his recommendation in a position that, in the opinion of the Citizens' Protector, does not do his job well, then why did the Government not provide that in every situation the '''' must''' recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors should be respected and that, in any situation, such a civil servant ''must'' must be resolved from position? In some situations, civil servants will be resolved, in some situations they will not. That's not good. You immediately, in this way, create a feeling with civil servants that they are not equal, that they are in an unequal position, that their fate will be decided in a partial, selective way, by some criteria which seem to be known only to the Government and to anyone else. It seems that the government will, from case to case, formulate the criteria based on which it will fire civil servants when it has received a recommendation from the Protector of Citizens. But these criteria must be defined in law. A civil servant must know in advance whether he will be resolved on the basis of a recommendation from the Citizens' Protector or not. If it will be, I guess it raises awareness with that civil servant to work better, to be safer, to professionally perfect himself, not to trample on citizens' rights, etc. Like this, the government can tell a civil servant in advance, who, for example, is politically similar to her -- well, you do whatever you want, you can come to work at 12 o'clock, you can also stall administrative procedures, you can take bribes from citizens if you like it, you'll be calm, you'll stay in position, the Citizens' Protector will write, and one day he'll get tired and stop writing recommendations. So that's not good. With this, as Mr Milorad Buha and I have discussed, and what will the other MPs of the SRS be talking about, the prolonging of deadlines for the entry into force of this law in terms of the implementation of public competitions, the Law on civil servants and the Law on State Administration practically remain a dead letter in the paper. Just to remind you, as Mr Milorad Buha said in 2004, a strategy for reforming the state administration, a minor sacred letter on Serbia's path to the EU, was adopted when it comes to state administration. Everyone swore to that strategy -- here, just to bring a strategy, just to pass the laws, we immediately move into reform, etc. But year after year... Here, read the reports, don't have to listen to the SRS, we may look like some uneducated people, unprofessional, uncultural, anti-European, etc., but read the European Commission's own reports. The biggest objections are at the expense of the state administration – massive, and too much under the influence of the parties that are in power, large public spending, etc. (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'll be done in ten seconds. Nothing is done that what is written in the State Administration Reform Strategy is actually implemented. What other conclusion would Serbian citizens make than to actually give a shit about both the EU and its standards and what you put into the laws? You only need the EU story before the elections, to tell the citizens – here, we will introduce you to the EU, because without the EU there is no better life. It is, unfortunately, one big lie and citizens are increasingly identifying it every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10647	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Verica Radeta has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10648	I'm reporting from Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm speaking directly to you, Madam President of the National Assembly. Before that, I have to say two sentences concerning the heifer being led in the regimeal media against the opposition MPs, and above all by the MPs of the SRS, and then it is written how much the SRS MPs cost Serbian citizens, I guess because we are talking about the incompetent and irresponsible government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to this, and I would ask the gentleman who is filming to show that there are only 11 DS MPs in the room right now, that there is no Ms. President of the Hope Kolundzi Group present, that we have again in the fifth and seventh row of cards and we have no MPs, that once again (in the announcement, of course) something similar is happening to "Bodrum". If it is not a violation of the dignity of Serbian citizens, if it is not unnecessary to use the money of Serbian citizens, then it is certainly not when MPs draw attention to what the incompetent and irresponsible government of the Republic of Serbia is unable to do. Then you, Madam President, which was my really big surprise last night, when I listened to you in the journal on RTS, instead of protecting the dignity of the National Assembly, because you weren't there as the vice president of the SPS or as a respected expert in the field of medicine, you were already like the President of Parliament. I don't know where your citizens are meeting you, so they ask you why you don't get a budget and if you're going to get a budget. Maybe that's what they're asking you. But it is your obligation for these citizens, as well as for the RTS last night, to say that the budget could not be passed by 15 December, within the legal period, because in Serbia we have an incompetent and irresponsible government, where ministers are being kidnapped over who will receive more money under the budget, that the budget arrived in the Assembly on 8 December instead of 1 November and that there can be no responsibility of the MPs, which the budget has not been passed on time and within the legal period. You also invited the MPs here in public yesterday, in front of the press, to speak briefly about the amendments, which is really inadmissible. We use only the right we have to the Rules of Procedure, not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, as I am now using 12 seconds more, but to warn citizens of Serbia of the irresponsible, unserious and harmful government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10649	Mrs Radeta, the budget came to the Assembly, unfortunately, about a little later than usual and what was earlier this year, but this year was more delicate and the government had an incomparably difficult task of making a plan for distribution of funds under the economic circumstances in which we operate. If the Government and we, even though it is our function to have a supervisory role, do not agree on the fact that the distribution of money, when the economic crisis, is incomparably more difficult, were extremely significant consultations, and if we are now trying, instead of working on a joint task, to enable this budget law to enable all the laws to function, we are putting formal and even essential remarks on each other, the citizens will not forgive us. Just in that sense, I prayed that we work more efficiently, and I prayed, especially those capable MPs like you, and you can say everything in five and 15 minutes, to be more economical in time so that we could do the most of the work quality, not at all at the expense of the quality of the work. If that hurt anyone, I really didn't want to. I wanted to simply convey my confidence by sharing with you the atmosphere that is here. I appreciate your findings, but I'm really trying to defend my position this time, because I think it's more useful. It's Mr. Lapcevic, about the amendment. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: The President of the Assembly holds his position as speaker, not so. I have the right to give an answer to an MP from this place, Mr. Krassic. You know the Rules of Procedure well, and you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10650	Madam President, I've come forward under this amendment, but I'll just, in two sentences, comment on what you said. It's not our fault the government isn't capable enough to do that job that's in front of her. We have a constitutional obligation to bring all the laws necessary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia into line by the end of this year. The government has not delivered any of these laws. We have amendments to the National Bank Act that we, as the DSS Parliamentary Group, have submitted. We are told in the Committee – there is time, by the end of the year these changes will be adopted. We don't have that law from the government. There are no 40 laws that harmonize our legislation with EU laws by the end of the year, due to the white Schengen, from the government to the Assembly, not the Assembly. It's not the assembly's fault these laws didn't come into consideration at all. Another thing, as regards the efficiency of Parliament's work, cannot be chaired to negotiate with MPs and parliamentary groups via microphones or through the media. If you want to arrange the work of the National Assembly, make it more efficient, then call the parliamentary groups and deal with them. And not to call a meeting and then nothing concrete is discussed, you don't have a concrete plan of what you want and what you ask of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. But that's another topic. I want to talk about this amendment and point to some illogicality in the amendments to the law, or to try to suggest something that this amendment provides, and the government has not accepted. So one of the most common remarks, above all those experts from the EU and the European Commission, for the state of Serbia and for its efficiency, the government, the government, the state administration, is that our state administration and our civil servants are not sufficiently efficient, in addition to the dissuaded flossula that civil servants or state administration are corrupt in the good part. In addition to this debilitated story, the general assessment is that civil servants are inefficient, that the state administration of the dispute is bureaucratised, in many cases unkind, that procedures are slow and complicated, and that indirectly affects what Serbia is missing the most, and these are healthy foreign investments. When you want to bring someone into Serbia to start any business, he expects that for his money, which he invests here, he gets some papers very quickly so that he can work and, of course, that his investment tomorrow is secure and that he has an effective judiciary in the event of possible disputes. The general assessment is that it is not there in Serbia. That is why Serbia does not have a favourable assessment of the safety and efficiency of its investment services in Serbia. That is why Serbia is not a country that is recommended and to be invested in. We need to do the maximum of what's in our power to assess or such a condition, which is obviously true, as soon as possible. The State Administration Reform Strategy clearly looked at the state administration situation and among civil servants and made it clear that several priorities had to be implemented, namely that the state administration must be modern, that it must be efficient, be rational and that its civil servants cost the state as little as possible. First, when we talk about the rationality of the state administration, such a small country, with a relatively low rate of gross national income, it must have as cheap a state administration as possible, i.e. the state's jobs as possible, as few people as possible, so as not to burden the budget, and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which, in the process, provides for the salaries of civil servants without a third of the total income of the state. It's really inadmissible, and the result is a very large number of employees in the state administration. In 2000 or 2001, the number of civil servants was about 7,000. However, not all competences were in the state of Serbia, we had one number of officials and at the federal level. But after the suspension of the federal state and over the previous years, the number of civil servants rose in 2004, to the incredible 27,000. In 2005, a rationalisation of state administration employees was carried out, and then, also implementing the Strategy, the government reduced the number of civil servants by 10%, so that again, we saw in budget rebalancing, the number today was over 27,000, which certainly cannot be characterised as a rational state administration. So that's what we should be working on. The second thing, in order to simply implement this State Administration Strategy, is to make sure that people working in the state administration are professional and competent for the tasks they perform. Unfortunately, in our state institutions, in the state administration, the age structure is quite unfavourable, because of a large number of people who are employed here many years ago and who, in order to be more efficient and to use some modern procedures and devices, have to be educated for that. A number of various projects aimed at reforming the state administration in collaboration with various European institutions have been implemented in the past years, by first of all taking part in the education of civil servants. State officials have attended many courses, related to the use of computers or other skills, all in order to spend as much time as possible on the workplace as possible and that parties, or citizens who require a service from a civil servant, receive this service as soon as possible, so in as little time as possible since they address a certain state authority. Our procedures are very complicated in many segments (and of course we need to work) so that civil servants, by conducting this procedure, spend dozens of days sending parties from tents to counters and thus wasting their time. What's most important, I think, at this point and what's trying to change in recent years, is the motivation of people who work in the state administration. It is common knowledge that those who work in various public services, and not in the leading places, have truly humiliating low wages. Before this job, I worked in a state body and I was some kind of manager. It is really unacceptable for someone who has worked here for 10 or 15 years, with a high school or higher, to have a salary of 17,000 or 20,000 dinars. No matter how secure the state's business is, he can't secure his existence with that salary. It's an even worse story when it comes to high school personnel. If they are not in the leading places, their wages range from 30,000 to 35,000 to 40,000 dinars. In this way, we will not be able to keep quality people working in state authorities, or all other competent people will go to other authorities, they will work in private companies, which will directly affect those who are not capable, who are incompetent and who are not motivated enough to stay in the state administration, and then that fact will affect the very work of the authorities, that the image of our state bodies and civil servants cannot be fixed unless we have competent, professional and efficient people working in the state administration. This amendment provides for the erasure of Article 2 which says that the recommendations of the Citizens' Protector of a specific civil servant, i.e. the Head of State, can be resolved. However, the proposer should have predicted, regardless of the need to accept a specific suggestion by the Citizens' Protector for the discharge of a certain civil servant, that he himself has a certain procedure to verify the allegations requiring his resolution. I'm telling you out of practice, and I'm sure those people who used to do that in municipal administrations or in some other state administration, that you have, of all people who come and ask some kind of service from a state authority, asking for some kind of protection of their rights or anything else, at least a dozen, if not more, percentages of people who, on a daily basis, or at least once a week, come to a certain state body looking for one and the same thing even though they know that the right doesn't belong to them and are constantly spinning for something that nobody can certainly give them. Since they cannot fulfill their wish, because it does not belong to them under the law, they can, in such cases, appeal to the Guardian of Citizens because he did not provide them with the fulfillment of their alleged rights and that the Protector, because of a large number of such cases, simply recommends, in some under-determined procedure, the discharge of a civil servant, and that the state authority accepts and resolves a man, although this civil servant may not be guilty of anything, but rather of parties who simply seek some right that does not belong to them and who are constantly complaining, deeming that their right is compromised. You should consider this because you have, for sure, dozens or hundreds of cases where various "patients" who keep going, sue the state authorities for seeking some of their rights, in most cases they are wrong and they want something that no one can provide, that such procedures do not come automatically to the state authorities that place officials in a certain position, under the recommendation of the Citizens' Protector to be accepted and damages are done that some civil servant would be resolved even though there are no legitimate reasons. I assume the promoter had this in mind and should consider a possible transformation of this Article 2. It is okay for the Citizens' Protector to suggest that a certain civil servant be resolved in the event of a violation of the rights of the citizens who demand it, but it cannot be an automatic measure, but it must be carried out in a certain procedure, to verify that it is indeed true, and only then to proceed in the process of changing a certain civil servant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10651	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10652	The aim of the applicant for this amendment was to make it impossible to account for the Protectors of Citizens with political inexperiences. I know for a fact that, as an expert expert, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic had no personal ideas of leadership, nor did he allud to the current civil defender. What he was trying to do was fix this important law, which was also motivated by the desire to depolitize the state administration. We from the NS, as representatives of a serious state-owned and national responsible policy, support any proposal that contributes to strengthening the rule of law, the rule of law, whose deadline still needs to be more lasting than the duration of long-term milk. I know that this is quite incomprehensible to the current government, because only in language do they have democracy, but it is important to remind themselves that the basic democratic principle - the principle of changing power. The laws must have a period of duration far longer than the time limit of a particular group in power, and it would be best to set up to exceed the time limit of the biological units of the owners in various epochs. Therefore, the reason for not accepting this amendment seems extremely controversial, as it is said that ''in the law established reasons for the resolution of a civil servant from a position it is not envisaged that a civil servant may be resolved from a position if the re-behaved behaviour of which the Civilian Protector has already pointed out the intention of a civil servant in a position to refuse co-operation with the Civil Protection Officer or if it is established that an injury done to citizens is caused by material or other damage to larger circumstances. This means that the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protection Officer to relieve a civil servant in a position for the reasons set out in the Law on the Protector of Citizens would not automatically lead to the discharge of a civil servant from his position, but would be possible for the authority responsible for the positioning of a civil servant, and therefore for his resolution, to consider the public recommendation of the Civil Protection Officer and only if he accepts it would lead to the discharge of a civil servant from his position.' This kind of inaccuracy in the formulations is not a coincidence because as soon as it says "there's a possibility" or "can," it means it doesn't have to. On the one hand, by refusing to accept Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic's amendments, a better and more precise law is actually institutionalizing the pressure of the Citizens' Protector and the vast, almost poetic freedom of the government, which has the right to decide who is, when and how or how he was a civil servant. Voluntarianism in access to this law abolishes the most important principle, the principle of legal certainty, which enables it to react equally in equal situations. What is certain is that we do not have equal access in the media either, so, with a significant boycott of most electronic media, New Serbia held on Sunday a very applicable title on this particular situation in the Assembly and the Government. The action is called "Rescruit." It is the third action of New Serbia, which is held on Sundays in front of the Russian Emperor at 11:30 p.m. and is in fact only part of the Enlightenment sequence "Look, Wake up, Wake up". Why - "Rescend"? Because the government constantly does not keep its promises and deceives Serbian citizens. The draft budget envisions a reduction in revenue as investments fail and there are no development projects. Public sector employees are not scheduled to pay off the regress and a warm meal. The government has allocated 1.7m euros to its ministers and officials' representations and salaries from the budget. On January 1, 2009, the government's decision will unilaterally implement the Trade Agreement, and Serbia will lose 300m euros annually as a result of the suspension of customs duties. The government illegally deploys the Eulex mission to KIM, without debate in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and accepts the status neutrality of the work of its own territory, actually occupation. The government has deceived citizens, as Serbia will not become an EU candidate in 2009 or be put on the white Schengen list. G17 Plus does not only have Bojan Krist in its ranks, but also Vidu Zelec, director of the Registration Centre, whose salary is 1,200,000 dinars, as well as many others, whose names will soon be revealed. They promised to raise wages and pensions, not freeze them. They promised a better life and 200,000 new jobs, not layoffs. They also promised to deal with crime and corruption, not the protection of criminals. So, "Rejoice." The NS proposes to realise two key infrastructure projects, concessions for building the Horgos-Pozega highway and a gas deal with Russia, as they open the right development path for Serbia. The postponement of the unilateral implementation of the Trade Agreement with the EU, as Serbia does not have the means to fill an additional 300m-euro budget deficit, which is directly due to the unilateral implementation of the agreement. To enable domestic producers to come to European competition; to reduce the tax on basic life supplies; to repeal the decision to increase the excise duty on coffee and oil products; to keep pension salaries on a controlled scale, in line with the cost of living and inflation; to reduce public spending by rationalising the number of employees in public services, not by firing workers from companies while in public services, the number of employees continues to be piled up; to stop the spending of foreign reserves to maintain the unrealistic rate of dinars and to invest most of the real revenues in infrastructure projects and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. "Rescend," therefore, and accept Mr. Martinovic's amendment. If the President of the Assembly allows me, I would like to give the present Minister Markovic a little gift, this brochure of ours, "Rejoice". We also shared a kind of lollipop – 'tornado cool mint, instant awareness'. Do I have your permission to give Mr. Secretary this? (President: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10653	The word has a Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10654	Here, "I've regained consciousness," as my colleague says. It doesn't take the president's consent to receive gifts, but mine, as a presentee. I received your gift and thank you for thinking of me. I disagree with Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Buh about their two amendments. I kind of understand the reasons why they submitted the amendment, but I would say a few things about their discussions and discussions that, regarding these amendments, have been heard. We here only comply with the Law on civil servants with Article 20(1). The Civil Protection Act. I think Mr. Martinovic asked the right question - why was it not done in 2005? I don't know why it wasn't done in 2005. At that time, these laws were made by different bodies, one is the Secretariat of Law, and the other is the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but as you know, in 2005, I was here as a National MP, an opposition, and I can't know why these two regulations were inconsistencies. Secondly, Mr. Martinovic asks why the Recommendation of the Protector of Citizens is not an imperative character, why does the authority that has placed a civil servant in a position, or functioner (as it says in the Law on the Protector of Citizens), not necessarily have to resolve it? Because even in the nature of the Protector, citizens are not such powers on any basis. The Law on the Protector of Citizens knows the following procedure: The Protector of Citizens, either on his own initiative or on a proposal from a party, checks whether the rights of citizens have been violated by a governing body, for example, or by an organisation that exercises public authority. If it finds that the right has been violated, it makes a recommendation and waits two months for notice of whether it has been followed. The recommendation can only have the following effect - if the violation of the right of character is serious, then it can suggest a resolution of that person or suggest the conduct of a disciplinary procedure. So, he's never, in any case, in his nature, it's not like he's looking for someone's solution, that someone has to act on his request. We are obliged to cooperate with him, but no one is required to discharge the official, or the official, who he has appointed at the request of the Citizens' Protector. The main instrument of the Protector of Citizens, as a democratic institution, is the public. Citizens' protector, in some final instance, of the problem encountered by the public and informs the National Assembly. He can file a report to the National Assembly. That's how the Citizens' Protector works, and that's why we couldn't predict that he said, "resolve the Assistant Minister, and now the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for example, resolve the Assistant Minister." It's just that it's not his jurisdiction, he's not in charge of setting up and solving. It is a competent authority which, in particular, is authorised by law. It was important that we explain this. I don't know why it's so controversial to comply with the Civil Service Act and the Civil Protection Act. If the Law on the Protector of Citizens is adopted, if it is given these rights, if those rights are in practice not realised, or are in conflict with the Civil Service Act, I will remind you that, when it comes to the resolution of civil servants, the reasons are tax and limited, i.e. we have a closed trail. Why is it so controversial for us to extend it to this right of the Protector of Citizens? I think it's the government that's afraid of the Guardians. It is the authority that the Protector of the Citizens can injure, just as the Commissioner for Information, is the same as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest (which will soon cease to work, as envisaged). But when you look at it, that's how it is. If we are giving him some greater power, greater authority, it should not be interpreted in any other way than to strengthen his role, as a matter of principle, rather than as a question of some daily policy benefit. So, the opposition and citizens are the ones who are responsible for empowering such authorities, because it is they who safeguard the rights of citizens in this democratic society against excessive authority or the possibility of abuse of power. As for the issue of the number, mentioned earlier by a colleague, not all the people paid from the budget are government officials. This law covers only five percent of the total number of people who receive salaries from the budget. The biggest users are health care and education, so on and so forth. But this law applies to everything, as you just said well, 27,000 people. It's 6% of the total number of people who receive salaries from the budget, it's probably about 1-2% of the total public spending in this country. I'm saying this more for the public. I think it's very common that, in the context of this rationalization, the state administration itself is mentioned, and then these 27,000 people carry the burden of this total public consumption, which is very large. But again, this is only 1-2% of the total public consumption, and these people, which are covered by the law, are people who work by the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, without those four bodies that we have repeatedly mentioned. I want to inform you, that's what I said when we discussed the law in principle, that I would suggest to the government that once a month consider the report how much competition was actually launched to fill the situation. I must say that I have proposed this conclusion to the government and from now on the government will have a monthly report on how much competition has been launched to fill the position. The reason for that is that we have about 300 positions that are unfulfilled and let's try this last one, let's say (I don't think it would be normal to try again later, unless there's a government downfall), so let's try to finally finish these positions. I can't blame anyone for why no position has been made. Two governments fell in the meantime. We can't tell who's particularly responsible if we're talking about these laws predicting an incredibly complicated positioning procedure, which takes, as I said last time here, at least 87 days. Another topic is constantly being opened there – if the law was passed in 2005, how is it possible, as counterpart Martinovic said, that four years later we do not have in life the provisions of the law, at least the most significant ones, relating to depolitisation? (I was the opposition when that law was passed. ) Here is the question of how much this law corresponds to reality, whether it is set in the right way, whether it corresponds to reality. The question arises what is generally with a legal norm that cannot live. We here have legal standards that have a hard time living and have an excuse because the two governments have fallen. The government that stops the mandate can't put a civil servant in a position. It's the provision of a member of the Government Act, that's normal and that's how it should be. I really can't say that someone really did it. The problem is probably that the governments were falling. If we had one government in continuity, we could tell that government -- gentlemen, it's your fault they didn't make the appointments. In a situation where governments have fallen, we can't say that it's someone's fault that they haven't been set up if we have 87 days from the moment the organ decides to fill the position. Could more than these 50 have been set up? It probably is. But one more thing is very important when we talk about reforming the state administration. One authority cannot be responsible for reforming the state administration. It is often mentioned here that citizens are dissatisfied with procedures. The procedures have been laid down by various sectoral laws - the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Medicinal Products... There are so many laws, each of which determines some of the procedures conducted by this administration. It's not the administration's fault if the procedure is so complicated in itself, if you need to collect 20 and some documents to even... There has been an unjust criticism of the state administration as such for the conduct of procedures that she did not invent herself, she's just conducting the procedure. Here it is well indicated, I fully agree with colleagues who have said that the problems of our state administration are, among other things, education, wage range, or motivation of people who work. Often in the public media, some kind of anger is created against these people who work in the state administration. They really work for salaries that start with some 15-16 thousand dinars. Salaries are small, people aren't motivated, and professional personnel are running from the state administration. The state administration is impoverished, humanely impoverished, and is thus significantly incapacitated to bear the burden of reform, transition and everything that characterizes the time in which we live. But today to say that there is a need to raise salaries in the state administration, of course it's impossible. We are today in a time when everyone must save and when it will be difficult for everyone, including those in the state administration. So at this point, we're not talking about it. It's often said here that a number of people from the state administration should be fired. One number of people from the state administration is impossible to fire like that. After the law is passed, there is no possibility of cutting people off. It is possible that by changing the internal organisation and systematization act a number of people can be made redundant, or unaligned, then they are unallocated for six months and then have the right to severance. These severances are at this point, according to the Government's regulation, such that for a large number of people this would mean the issue of future existence. This year 2009 is the year when we have to approach such forms of rationalization very carefully because each individual man is a particular destiny, a particular family, and the question is how and how to leave someone without a job. There's an answer to the question of why we're going in the process of local self-government. When it comes to local self-government, we can make a synergy of two budgets -- one is the republican budget, and the other is the municipal budget. At least twice as much severance can be offered to people who want to volunteer, I repeat -- exclusively voluntarily, in 2009 to leave local self-government. They will be offered severances far greater than it would be to finance only from one budget, or from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's why we've defined ourselves as local self-government, because there we can have the element of volunteering, definitely, and because we can do it without making these people social cases. It is not the purpose of rationalising to make social cases, certainly not in 2009. We can go to other forms of rationalization when the economic situation is stabilised, and then we have to go to rationalization through mechanisms that mean changing these internal acts and doing a number of people to excesses, but in this situation I think it's inhumane and I, as a minister, will certainly not do that. So that's why we've defined ourselves as local self-government, because there we can create a synergy of two budgets and we can only go to voluntary job leaving, we can't leave someone without a job in 2009. As for the competitions that have been completed, I also think it would be good for those who are finished to be placed in office, but that depends on the organ manager and the colleague who suggested it knows. I think I've covered everything that's been heard in the discussion so far. I call on Mr. Buha and Mr. Martinovic to accept this argument. I understand the opposition's criticism of what I also criticised when I was an opposition or what I would criticise if I were an opposition, and what you would certainly do if you were power, which is an extension of the time limit for positioning. But please consider this situation with the Protector of the Citizens exactly the way I've just presented it to you. We simply want to bring Article 20(1) into line. The Law on the Protector of Citizens with the Law on Civil Service, and we give that chance to the Protector of Citizens that, when he encounters an arrogant civil servant, he will recommend his resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10655	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for your extraordinary argument. I am convinced that Mr. Martinovic has accepted your argument. Here, that's probably what he wants to say. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10656	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm glad you're inclined to joke, that you're funny. That shows you're a woman who probably has a very high I.Q. I have to draw Mr. Minister's attention to an anecdote, which historians say is true, that it's authentic. In the early 20th century, after the Serbian throne threw the Obrenovic dynasty, the associates asked Nikola Pasic -- why don't you, Mr. President, introduce English democracy, which is so popular in the world? Then Nikola Pasic answered them wisely - how can I introduce English democracy, where are my English? It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that since 2000 all governments have been losing sight of the fact that they cannot artificially on the legal and political system of the Republic of Serbia, some institutes that have existed in the West for decades, if not centuries. So the fundamentally different position of the Republic of Serbia is, in political, legal, economic, social, cultural, in whatever sense you want, in relation to EU countries. You cannot accept that fact at all whatever reforms it is, the reforms of the state administration, the reform of education, health reform, justice, etc. Simply, the situation in which the Republic of Serbia is located is fundamentally different from the situation that exists in EU countries. I hope you understand that. What's the problem with your explanation? I understand the government wants to comply with the Civil Service Act with the Civil Protection Act. No one argues that the Law on the Protector of Citizens states that the Protector of Citizens can recommend to the authority that has placed a civil servant in a position to resolve it. It's a fact, I don't argue. What's the matter? Your argument is disputed, Mr. Minister, or whoever wrote this argument: "This means that the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protection Officer to relieve a civil servant in a position for the reasons set out in the Law on the Protector of Citizens would not automatically lead to the discharge of a civil servant from office, it would already be possible for the authority responsible for the positioning of a civil servant and therefore for its resolution to consider the public recommendation of the Citizens' Protector and only if it accepts it would lead to the discharge of a civil servant from the position." So, Mr. Minister, where the criteria in the law are based on which the Government, if the Government is the authority that puts civil servants in a position, to say - on these criteria we accept the recommendation of the Protectors - or, on the basis of these criteria, we do not accept the recommendation of the Citizens' Protectors - so that civil servants, MPs and citizens know in advance what situations the Citizens' Protectors' Recommendations will be respected, and in which situations they will not. (Chairman (Gordana Komic): Three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, I'll be done in 10 seconds. It seems that only the government knows on what criteria it will accept the recommendation and on which criteria it will not. This will in practice lead to a feeling of an entirely unequal position of civil servants. Instead of putting order into the state administration, you'll be making a mess. That's the problem with your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10657	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10658	I understand, Mr. Martinovic, but that's the point. That is how our Protector of Citizens is formed, not only when it comes to civil servants, but when it comes to all officials, as it stands in the Law on the Protector of Citizens. That's how it's set up, that's his legal nature, that's his essence. After his recommendation, nowhere is an imperative solution. That's his nature. What do we do? That's his position. He's the one who comes in public and says, "I recommend that." Whether the organ will agree to it or not, it's on the organ, but not just on the government, on anyone. That's how it's set up, that's his legal nature, that's how it is. The public is his weapon. He's not an organ legally authorized to resolve someone. There are organs that set up and relieve some people, and his, as a representative, is in some way, these congregations, the citizens, that he can point to failures and ask for these people to be resolved, and he only solves the one who sets it. He's responsible for the public. I agree with you, it might be more effective, but we can't go any different. This is his legal nature, this is how our Protector of citizens is set up, and we're just harmonizing with that way they're setting it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10659	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, regardless of the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, the word should have been given to Zoran Krasic and Milan Lapcevic. Just to end the exchange of arguments between the MPs who tabled the amendment and the government's representative, that's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10660	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I've always been a fan of your way of running a session of the Assembly. And this time I thank you for allowing me to, very briefly and very constructively, respond to Mr. Minister. Mr. Minister, let's ignore the Guardian of Citizens now. It is indisputable that he has the right to make a recommendation and no one questions that. I ask you a question - in what situations will the Serbian Government, if it is a government or another competent state body, follow the recommendation, and in what situations will it not? That is the essence of our amendment, i.e., it is a fundamental mistake contained in your bill. It will simply not be known what principles are handled by the Government or other competent authority when considering the recommendation of the Protector of Citizens. I understand the legal nature of the Guardian of Citizens. In legal theory, he's called a "tiger without teeth." He can make recommendations, he can write in the papers, etc., but in the end, he, in himself, can neither lift an administrative act nor lead to someone's resolution. So it's undeniable what the powers of the Protector are like. This is about phase two, when the government receives a recommendation from the Protectors of Citizens. Then the question arises – what principles, criteria, principles, arguments are used by the Government in respecting or by disrespecting that recommendation? You say - that's how it's set up. Yes, it was set up in the bill, but we suggested that it change. It's not that hard. It's simple to say -- it's been found to be authentic, what happened happened, the actual state of affairs corresponds to what it says in the recommendation, and we respect the recommendation and we resolve the civil servant. Do you know what kind of situation the government and civil servant and citizen whose rights are at stake? A civil servant can be the worst in the world and that the Guardian of Citizens writes 101 recommendations against such a civil servant, the government can simply say - there are no criteria in the law; it is that you, Protector of Citizens, have written a recommendation, but we do not respect your recommendation, the civil servant remains in place. In such a situation, you can bring state administration – complete self-will, arbitration, arbitrary treatment, unequal treatment, partial treatment, treatment other than case to case and, instead of order, you will have a disorder. Remember what Plato said - God created this world because he realized that order is better than mess. Figure it out for once.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10661	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10662	Now I understand, Mrs. Comic, why you make these flying changes when it comes to advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I can't object now that the predecessor's out. I'm calling in an article. 136th and 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because Minister Markovic came out here and made a mistake. He talked about what he was going to do in 2009, how he was going to fire civil servants. It's not the subject of this law. And where the amendment was supposed to come to, he was acting on the system of "I'm married, but as a guy I live" (that's one famous folk song, it was very popular). Or, to be precise, as a representative of the government, he gave one opposition speech, so he criticised the previous, previous, previous... He criticized all the authorities, and he forgot he was in power. I don't understand that at all. Mr. Markovic, I don't think you've understood Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Buh at all, here's why. Article 78, if we go from him, he has his first attitude and his second attitude. In attitude one, it's "resolved." That means something that's mandatory. In attitude 2, the same thing is mandatory, so it's said "two times", it doesn't have to be consecutive, that "data grade" is the same grade as in the first position as "not satisfied", and then you inserted something that refers to the Protector of Citizens. I have to distract you, you have administrative inspection and administrative inspection controls the work of civil servants, and when the administrative inspection, during the controls, determines some irregularity, it gives the order to correct that irregularity. It is not only an irregularity from the point of view of the process, but also an irregularity from the point of view of respect for human rights. I don't know why you've given more importance to the Guardian of Citizens than to the Administrative Inspectorate. What she does is the administrative inspection and that solution she makes is binding, unlike the recommendation, which has the character of thinking with a proposal on how to solve something that is problematic. You said it well, it acts towards the public, transparently, indicates, and it also acts preventively on civil servants, on all those who can come into a situation that violates human rights. And that's acceptable. But this recommendation can be the basis of that authority to initiate a disciplinary procedure, to check whether what he recommends is true and on what he bases his recommendation on. In my opinion, it can be more important to be a solution to administrative inspection than to the recommendations of the Protector of Citizens. A team before he, as Martinovic said, "a tiger without teeth" or "a lip"... '"or that ''... Smoke. Well, that's him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10663	The word is from Ambassador Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10664	Just a few things to look at Mr. Secretary's exposure. About 5% of the people, financed from the Republika Srpska budget, are working in the state administration. That's 27,000 of them. You have to agree with me, no matter what it is, it's only 5% of the total number of people, that that 27,000 is a lot, really a lot. Be honest and see also in your ministry and in each other's ministry, each ministerial assistant has a minimum of one, perhaps two or three secretaries or associates. Yes, I know because I was, I was working with these people. You come in and wait for the assistant minister at the reception, at least two secretaries sitting in the office outside. I ran a government service with a very small number of people, 20, but even among these twenty people, even though it's complicated, a number of people can be found who are unnecessary. I was looking for something I needed in that system, I couldn't get it. I have several people who are surpluses, who figure here, inherited from past times, and you can't get rid of them. I can understand that, but if we want an effective state administration, we have to have motivated people who will have better wages. We can't raise wages in 2009 because of the economic crisis. But you have to agree, if you want to have an effective state administration, reduce the number of people. Let's keep the same pay fund, so from that fund, raise your salaries and motivate the people who work in the state administration. As for the appointment, you've been minister since May 2007. By March 2008, it was about 10 months. That's a lot more than 87 days. So, by October, November, December, it could certainly have been carried out to appoint all civil servants, by procedure. It could have. There was a competition for the county's chiefs who came out on November 15th. What was six months before that? Not to talk about where I came from (I was the head of Nisavsky County, I was resolved in early July) until today no new man was appointed. That service is completely decapitated and the question is how it works. Of course, following a job makes it work, but there has to be someone who's going to be an organ manager in that service. Sooner or later, the number of people employed by the state administration must be reduced. It's never popular, especially in times of crisis, but if we want an effective state, a cheap state, sometimes unpopular measures to withdraw. The mistake was made from 2000 to 2004, when the number of officials from 7,000 rose to 27,000, and now it's coming back on its head. We have a large number of people, and a small fund for profit. Then there must be small wages. If the people in the state administration have small salaries, then all those who are worth looking for a better job where there are bigger salaries. And then you have a devastation of quality personnel at the state administration and a bunch of things that can't provide a good service. You don't have fast, timely, and, worst of all, a quality service of a state authority or an official because, on the one hand, a man is not motivated by a small salary, and on the other hand, the kind of person, who is sullen, scrawny, will never provide the service he needs to provide to make a citizen happy. And it is the citizen, whoever he is, the investor or anyone who pays the tax and who requires that the state enables him to get information or service as quickly as possible and that doesn't cost him much. It's an ideal model for making a country. As for the Guardian of Citizens, of course he has the right and should make recommendations when overstepping some powers. But I spoke before, there must be a mechanism of protection. (President: National MP, time available to your MP's group has been used. I'll be done in half a minute. There are more people in Nis, but one of them is a lady named “Legend” (it is not right to mention her name), who literally haunts every state body every day and every day asks for one of those same things. Although I personally and many inspectors of that service have gone 20 or 30 times to check her allegations, she always comes with the same request. She can, of course, address the Citizens' Protector, to repeat it ten times, that the Citizen's Protector says -- here, I'm making a recommendation because he didn't do something there. There must be a safeguard mechanism to check what the Guardian of Citizens recommends, so that we don't accidentally make mistakes about someone who may not have made any mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10665	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10666	I'd like to go back to the Guardian of Citizens again. Mr. Martinovic, both you and Mr. Buha have submitted the amendment - "clear yourself." You have not submitted the amendment to come from this discussion that you have here. You are discussing here in the direction that the Protector should be given such power, such power, that the Government practically makes that decision on the basis of this recommendation, or, at the very least, the Government carries out a special procedure, which subsequently determines whether the recommendation is correct or not, although the Citizens' Protector already has the prescribed procedure. You have submitted the amendment: "clear yourself," which just indicates to me that you are now using your eloquence to avoid yielding under the pressure of the arguments. That's more than obvious. And you invited Mr Krasic to help, which is the heavy legal artillery of the SRS as regards knowledge, which I respect, and Mr Jojic, and Verica is out of competition. But, Mr. Martinovic, you know what is the legal nature of the Guardian of Citizens, you know how the Guardian of Citizens acts, you know what the provisions of the Law on the Protector of Citizens and you know that this solution is only possible and only right, and that its power is extended to civil servants in a position, that is to say, in a way, that the Government is bound to respect the Protector of Citizens. Otherwise, as things were so far, the Citizens' Protector could give 200 recommendations, and the government could ignore that. I agree, buddy, that we need to cut the number. I didn't say I shouldn't, I'm just saying that, when it comes to the state administration, this process is far more complicated because of the Civil Service Act. Finally, I have to say that I voted against this law on civil servants and, in the end, it is not fair of the parliamentary groups who have pushed that law, who voted for that law, who then praised it, that in the past and in this discussion I am now defending this law, a law that I don't normally think is good (he has good principles, but there are many things that obviously cannot withstand a test of time), it's not right for you to respect anything. This law is overcomplicated, overtired, with significant gaps on the other side, simply – one difficult law. It's hard to read. The law on civil servants is also difficult to read, let alone understand or implement. So, I'm fighting for that law because I think it's my duty as a minister, and I'm fighting to carry it out, and I'm fighting for that depolitanization maximum. I must say that, as far as the ministry is concerned, no civil servant who has been in office is removed from that position, nor will there be a civil servant who comes to this place without a competition being launched for his appointment. But you also have that interregnem, from the moment it remains empty, to its installation, which lasts at least 87 days. You're wrong when you say you can all set up for those eight months. Why aren't you right? Because one lasts 87 days, and the capacity of the High Official Council is not such that it can serve more competitions at the same time. He can serve maybe ten contests at the same time, but he can't serve them a hundred. So also this deadline, December 31st, believe me, appears to be very controversial in terms of whether it will take place, but we will put pressure on it. If it does not bear fruit to what we have now decided, that every month a report is submitted, I will suggest to the government that in the spring it itself initiates the opening of the competition, regardless of the executives of the authorities who refuse to initiate it. But it's always (at the same time, you know that) the organ manager who initiates the launch of these competitions. I think I've answered all the remarks, so we can go after the next members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10667	The word has an MP, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10668	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention of discussing this amendment, but since the subject of the Ombudsman, the civil defender, is most explicit, and even at a certain point, I dare to observe, and in a way that is not suitable for the dignity of this body, I felt simply invited, since I belong to a political organisation Together for Kragujevac, which among the first in Serbia south of Sava and Danube was first promoted by the Ombudsman institute in Serbia, and the town of Kragujevac is the first Serbian town outside of Vojvodina, which had been installed in local self-government and we have certain experiences since 2004, which should be understood. Hence, I think, this controversy has also emerged, because it does not stem from the misunderstanding of one member, from a certain relationship to possible improvement through the amendment, but is completely conceptual – relations to penalties as sanctions in principle and public relations. The so-called'soft legislation', which becomes increasingly a tool for citizens to build a state and society in modern civilization of the West, is in fact the assumption that criminal rigorousism is not what sanctions the norm to the greatest extent possible, and that, of course, the strongest force in society is the public, not the apparatus of coercion, and that the whole order is based on the possibilities of mobilising and articulation and power in society. And hence the whole series of laws, such as the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, or the application of the Ethics Code of Conduct of Functions in Local Self-Government, or the Ombudsman Institute, therefore, institutes that do not have the power of an apparatus of coercion, but have a special quality relationship with higher power in society, which is the so-called will of the people, i.e. the public. Their presence, engagement and daily activity should mobilize the public over the flows of state and society, which then provides what are fundamental principles. From there, I find it a little inappropriate qualifications, some of them just enough that I won't repeat them, and some of them metaphorically used, that it's a "tiger of paper," and then they totally correspond with the belief that it's appropriate for some other societies, not ours. That's not true at all. Is that what you're trying to say - is that how we English too - that the impossible citizens' public in Serbia is, so that from there, the Institute of such political culture is inconclusive in us? It's just wrong. By the way, it would also be against the constitution to interpret it that way, because the first member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the first principle in which the Republic of Serbia is defined explicitly is the fact that the Republic of Serbia is based on European principles and values and what does not share these principles and values is not the Republic of Serbia. As someone who comes from Kragujevac, I know fully – there is no Serbia, in its entire modern historical tradition, which is not European. So there is no reality to be called upon by the claim that we are not nice enough to be able to animate the public in action without the need to reach for a pendreka, as the only sanction of the value that has to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10669	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10670	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as far as I'm aware, Mr. Milenic, you're a philosopher, so I'll try to give a philosophical answer. Hegel said that freedom of the press is an expression of a barbed urge to express his opinion. You've just shown that barbed urge to express your opinion of a thing you absolutely don't understand. I wasn't talking about the ombudsman institution like that. I know her history, and her legal nature, and what the Ombudsman can and cannot do. I spoke in the context of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants that it is indisputable that the Law on the Protector of Citizens states that the Protector of Citizens can make a recommendation to the competent authority that a certain civil servant be resolved from office. It's undeniable, and here, please, and Mr. Minister, and all the other MPs present in this room, let's absorb the Protector of the Citizens. It's undeniable what he can do. Now I'm talking about the situation of what happens when the government gets a recommendation from the Protector of Citizens. There are no criteria based on which a civil servant, Protector of citizens, MPs, anyone in Serbia can say -- based on these and these criteria, the government will follow the recommendation of the Citizens' Protectors, and in these situations it will not follow the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors. You, in fact, in this way, Mr. Milenić, by not adopting the amendment, are devising the very institution of the Ombudsman, because then what if he writes recommendations that a civil servant does not do his job well, and the government simply says - write whatever you want, we will not change that civil servant because he is loyal to us, or comes from the same party as we do. That's the point. Instead of raising the authority of the Guardian of Citizens, which you allegedly want, you are actually degraded, turning it into a simple civil servant, who draws money from Serbia's budget, and the actual effects of his work are totally minor. So that's the essence of our amendment. As for the remarks made by Mr. Minister, why we did not call in our amendment, so we advised the Government that the Law on Civil Service should be fixed, so, Mr. Minister, we can give you some advice, some recommendations or suggestions, but not in the form of an amendment. We'll do you one favor, since you're probably a very nice majority of the MPs of the SRS, so we can help you from the point of view of the profession, but I guess you have enough competent people in your ministry to figure out how to change that bad Law on civil servants, which you yourself said was too complicated. So, Mr. Milenic, I respect your profession, I respect your profession, but you stick to philosophy, and you leave it right to the lawyers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10671	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10672	Article 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure just now, when my colleague Milenic was speaking here. He mentioned the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 The constitution says: "The Republic of Serbia is a state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values." I don't know where you are, Mr. Milenic, in this, since you mentioned Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia saw that all those who do not represent some European value are being released from Serbia because you said earlier that everything that is not European is not Serbia. It would really be good if you took care of every word you said. Because here, you've made me ask you, what's going on with the flag workers and the Fiat, it really has to do with Europe, but it would be good for you to answer us – do you have this information that the entire world's public has, that "Fiat" has closed all its production facilities, that the director of the Fiat said in 2009 will be the hardest since "Fiyat" exists and that you have the European right to double-cross employees in the flag? I don't even know where you got that right. Of course, when we talk about the budget, we'll talk about it. Serbia's government has provided huge budget funds for its, or "Fiats" activities in Kragujevac. Does this mean that the Serbian government is going to mop the holes of the Fiat because it won't be the government of Italy? You have again led your activities into a huge delusion of those people who accept that for two or three thousand euros of severance and it is really miserable what this strategic partner of yours is offering, who, by the way, has no money and the question is when and when it will pay, and these people will stay on the street. They warn you that from Kragujevac, from those halls, you do not throw out the machines that produced "South" and "flage", because it is better than that in places where the Halls of Kragujevac "Stars" have no hotels, residential buildings, etc., and we warn the citizens of Kragujevac employees of the flag.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10673	There's no breach of Article 104. The MP was interpreted by Article 1. The constitution and has the right to the replica of MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10674	Without anything personal, I believe you feel as if members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated the moment I, from the point of view of the program "Together for Kragujevac" or the politics of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, address you from this pay phone. There's nothing personal about it, it's a principled discrepancy. It is very important to understand, because of the public who is following this, that I, as an MP in the first term of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was not so impressed with meeting the national parliament up close, as with its real organisation and professionalism. What the public doesn't understand is that it's not happening here, but it's never really, it's just that there's nothing in there that's a bit of a mess, it's when the public isn't familiar with the interesting structure that the order follows. So for days now, we have been attending an operation called "the tuning of the crazy hats to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia", which should compromise the highest body of Serbian citizens in the country. Citizens just need to be seduced so they believe it's because the political system in the country is multi-party and that, behold, God forbid, they separate money to support something like the National Assembly. Of course, Serbian citizens should not be seduced at any moment, and the fact that it is not transparent what is important to compromise parliament is because there is clearly no information missing. The great-grandfather from that crazy hat, which was most often peeled, increased and kicked off this pay phone these days was the subject of "Fiita." Let me officially confirm to you what the Minister of Economy and Regional Development confirmed in Kragujevac, not as well as the media, all of them, at a press conference dedicated to the "Fiyat" or at a meeting with the trade unions, which it did along the way, but visiting a promotion of the draft law on regional development, which looks like a lot of pain and is hiding, because this is the introduction to Serbia's decentralisation. That's what it looks like, and when it comes to "Fiat," it's about. So the real question is, why is he pushing a thorn into a healthy leg and making up a problem where it's not there? Is it necessary to explain to someone that if the Fiat and any major Western companies in financial crisis are having problems investing in the West, that is why it is more attractive to invest in our area? Have you heard the statements, unofficial and yet given in a nice way to the press, when guests from Italy were coming, they said - don't worry, "Fiat" won't fail. Off the record, if such a miracle had happened (of course, Italy would not have allowed such a brand to fail), if that had happened, perhaps it would have been there, not in Kragujevac. Why do you invent a problem where there is no problem and it envisions a non-resolvement and a non-contract that is fully implemented according to plan and planned dynamics? Because someone has a problem with spilling money at Kragujevac or because someone has a problem with competition on the Serbian market. Whatever it is, the fact is that it is an investment that represents the country's development opportunity and represents a lifesaving gain for civil society culture in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10675	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. Just a moment, Mrs. Radeta. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the RIK on the election of the MP in order to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic, elected from the electoral list "For Europe's Serbia - Boris Tadic". On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Ljiljana Zdravkovic. I congratulate the MP on the election, and I invite my colleague to enter the O.R. Mrs. Radeta, come in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10676	I'm reporting on the basis of article 101, and I could do 104 after my colleague Milenic's discussion. He really said some things that I didn't really understand who they were referring to. Who's wearing crazy hats? Who's wearing crazy hats? I really didn't understand if you were saying all this for the purpose of seducing citizens -- who seduces citizens and how. I think you should explain that a little bit, colleague Milenic. You really "haunted" me with a story, probably all of Serbia's citizens, and you probably just opened your eyes to the citizens of Kragujevac, employees of the flag, when you said "Fiat" could fail in Italy, but not in Kragujevac. That is indeed a brilliant thought, which is a serious competition for the recently announced thought of Vice President Bozidar Djelic, who said the economic and banking crisis is welcome to Serbia. What happens in the world just means that everyone will rush into Serbia, that all investors will come to Serbia, because there is a major economic crisis in EU and US countries. You told another truth, and it's really good that you said that Mladjan Dinkic was at a meeting, something about decentralisation, a draft of some law. That part is not important to me, but it is the other part of the sentence, Mr. Milenic, when you said that Mladjan Dinkic in Kragujevac also spoke with union representatives. I guess it would be normal for him to spend a lot of time in this situation talking to union representatives, and not just, by the way, passing through, see them. He should have explained to the employees at the flag whether he would get that famous letter that he says is a guarantee, and unfortunately, that letter, if he gets it, is no guarantee for all those who are already out of work in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10677	According to the Rules of Procedure, first Milenić and then Zdravkovic, as you agree, answered at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10678	Insulting dignity does not spring, I repeat, from the level of personal motivation. It is obvious that conflicts in conceptualization, in understanding, in value orientations are so deep, they look like incompatible and incompatible points of view. Of course, it's not normal for a company's business policy negotiations to run with the union. Because factories don't belong to workers. It's not this country. It is not the Republic of Serbia, a country where factories belong to workers. The factories belong to the owner, and the owners are in this country or private or public enterprise, so there is a set-up management that manages the business, and it is known which labour rights are defined by law and which, on this basis, unionally organised workers need to achieve. The initiative to discuss business policy in all media outlets with union representatives is about a turn towards populism that is about to worry about all those who are interested in the country's reform course, about investment and development as the only engaged, the correct response of our society and our economy to the financial crisis and the real social problems that we are in. By the way, I repeat, no matter how paradoxical it sounds, it is not difficult to explain that every investor coming from the West, where the financial crisis has arrived before and arrived, when it comes to the country where investment is wanted, and therefore, by its own measures, local self-government is working on it, so the government guarantees investment, guarantees even special modules for certain educational profiles it needs, it is a better investment environment than it can be found anywhere. That's exactly what politics is all about, fighting to get investors into the country. So that doesn't sound like anything illogical. The other thing is if someone has an ambition to try to provoke this topic to the Italian public, to say there - who hires workers in Serbia when problems arise here. You can't do that. That way, no such big business can be broken and so large a stratification of businesses disrupted, except that it can be deluded and confused by the public and compromised by parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10679	National MP Nebojsa Zdravkovic. Excuse me, Mr Dragan Todorovic, as head of the parliamentary group, has the advantage, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Milenic, I'm reporting for an article. 103 and 104. There is absolutely no dispute here about the good part of your exposure about what the citizens of Serbia want and what they would like to do. This is what the SRS in continuity represented, it is a basic thread in our policy, that we should enable and start production in every possible way, do everything to the state, to the Republic, to local self-government, to enable to start production. This horror that has hit us since 2000, the complete destruction of our own production, the opening of our market, allowing us to be bought by factories to shut down, to sell machines, to sell business space, that's what brought us into this situation where we are. After eight years, you have citizens of Serbia who no longer believe in anything. The best example for that is unions in the flag. No matter what you and I agree, no more self-management, they feel it's their factory. They are afraid not to be played, lest they be deceived, for on many examples they have proved to be deceived. Mr. Milenic, do you claim that citizens will receive a thousand euros of free shares they are promised? Come out for a pay phone and say, I say, every citizen who signs up will get a thousand euros. Are you saying the flag will produce 200,000 cars, as said? It turns out it was all done at a time of pre-election activity to deceive Serbian citizens. Second, let's make some sense. According to all the information, the Fiat is firing, or on a temporary vacation of about fifty-seven thousand workers. He's negotiating with the Pejo to find a way out of this crisis that destroys auto-industry everywhere in the world. Believe me, we would love it, it would be your best possible success to make it all true, but all the facts say it won't be anything. That's what the problem is. And the only answer for citizens, or employees at the flag, is -- we don't give machines until the production of promised models starts, so if production starts, then you can work, and by then there's nothing. That's what we're trying to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10681	Mr. Nebojsa Zdravkovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10682	I must briefly refer to Mrs Radeta and Mr Todorovic's presentation. I think the point is it's two things. One thing is that you may not understand the essence of this contract, you may not be able to penetrate so deeply, and the other thing is that you are malicious and you would like the Fiat Treaty not to be realised. I would go back a little bit in history and remind myself that in 1989, the flag produced a record of 220,000 cars, and in 1990, a Sunflower was on its way, just when you came to power, when sanctions arrived, and when the metal complex in Serbia was destroyed. It's a little reminder, and now we're talking about the Fiat. As for the Fiat, as someone who was also a member of the negotiating team and who is a task force coordinator on behalf of the town of Kragujevac, I'll give you a lot of information on what it's all about. A contract with the Fiat has been signed and is realized by the planned dynamics. There was a global economic crisis and the most affected the automotive industry. We see that everyone sends out paid leave workers for a month, and the largest company like Mercedes, like the three largest American companies, but what's the fact is that everything that's been planned so far has been realized, even before the deadlines were agreed. Fiat certainly does not give up investment in Kragujevac, according to the director general of the "Fiat of Serbia" car, Mr. Giovanni de Filipis, who we are in constant contact with, and even the unions think so. I'm about to tell you what the unions think, since you often mention them here, not to say you abuse this pay phone. Is that how you were worried when production fell from 220,000 to 2,000 cars a year? I didn't notice. And now, when it takes 200,000 cars to be manufactured in 2010, in 2011, 300,000 cars, when export plans are planned, only from the Fiat factory billion euros a year, and I would remind you that now the entire export of Serbia's state is six and a half billion euros, now you are allegedly worried that the contract is not being realised. Mr. Markione, chairman of the Financial Group Executive Board, the Director General, confirmed yesterday that they will not give up their investment in the flag. Why won't they give up? Because they have qualified and trained workforce and because the state has given incentives. And if it hadn't been for Mladjan Dinkic, I'd have to say, "Fiat" wouldn't have come to Serbia, but would have gone to Romania, because it was in the final phase. As someone who actively participated, I know a lot of details about it. Do you care if the Fiat doesn't come? It's called "Iveko" that he won't come. So the Fiat decided, and one of Ivek's companies in Western Europe will move management to Kragujevac. Do you care not to open 10,000 new jobs, that even the citizens of Kragujevac, Šumadia, Chačka, Kraljeva get jobs? What was the solution to the flag anyway? To declare bankruptcy because they can't function? (President: Time. I'm done. You can't live on subsidies most of the time. It's "Fiat" right now, and later I'm going to get a little more details about the Action Plan, what it is for the state, not just for the town of Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10683	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10684	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. It's mentioned here that we don't see so deeply and the essence of what's going on, and we're so deeply in trouble that we can hardly see a way out of it. You mentioned that Zastava came into trouble in the 1990s, so you tied the SRS to that period, as a party that was in power. First of all, let me inform you that we entered power in 1998. And you are, in the most difficult way possible, accusing that authority of being responsible, that authority that we were the opposition, and that fierce opposition. We supported them only and only when they were on patriotic grounds and when they were defending this country. Now we come to what is very important and very important. You're also accusing this government, which you're currently in, that the gas agreement that's being signed is extremely harmful to this country. That's what Mladjan Dinkic claims everywhere. He's out of this negotiating team, but he's not coming out of the government. With all four of them, he's holed up in the place, pulled his hand, and there's no... Only to get Joe back with a bulldozer and get him out of the government. Where did you have to transfer those with whom you were in government today to destroy the state? What are you going to do with them in government? How do you have the nerve to even mention it? If you didn't get over it, if that's part of history, then at least shut up, don't talk about it. You spit them out, and you're in the government with them. You spit out the Democratic Party, and you're with them in the government. Then what are your motives for being in government? It's known -- only benefit, party and personal benefit. You're saying we want to. We don't want to, people! Give me ten thousand, give me 100,000 jobs. But we know you. Who destroyed the banking system? G17 - Dinkic and Labus. What about the Postman's Savings? What about all the projects you got yourself into? Only misery and misery. The only thing you can boast is Bojan Kristo and similar, those who robbed Serbia and Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10685	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I give my word to Mr. Nikolic, just to give two notices. Government, pursuant to Article 143(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, withdraws from the assembly procedure the draft law on associations, submitted to the National Assembly by Act 05 No 011-2772 of 18 July 2008; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, submitted to the National Assembly on 8 December 2008; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, submitted to the Assembly on 8 December 2008 and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Procedural Procedure, also submitted on 8 December 2008. In line with the notice of postponement of the fourth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which I delivered to you on 27 November 2008, I would like to inform you that the session, which will discuss the motion to vote for non-trust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will take place on Thursday, 18 December 2008, starting at 10.00 hours. The session will be held in the building of the National Assembly, that is, in this area. The MPs' clubs will be delivered a written notice, but I think it's okay for me to let you know before this decision of mine begins to be shared on this agenda tomorrow. Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10686	I'm reporting from Article 104, but this is also your new explanation. It is interesting that the government is withdrawing laws that fight organised crime right in front of our eyes the truth about organised crime, first at G17 plus, and then I would say, in the DS, because Mladjan Dinkic suggested that such a crime, as he developed in G17 plus, exists in the largest party in the ruling coalition, so I assume that this fight against organised crime in Serbia is absolutely stopping. As a fellow MP who is very concerned about what is happening in the automotive industry, I must say that the gentleman who says he participates in the negotiations, and I see him in the videos, insulted me when he said that MPs cannot understand the depth of the agreement and the essence of the agreement. It looks like a G17 plus, it insults and demeans others, but it retains its primate when it comes to interpreting other people's moves. So, I'd like to, with all my heart, that Kragujevac is making cars again, what he knows best. Although, as for qualified labour forces, I'm afraid we've lost a lot of the qualified workforce and we'll have professional workers on paper, and we'll have to educate them, like at the time the Fiat first started producing cars in Kragujevac. But that's the easiest part of the job. The second part of the job is that you first said that this job wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for Mladjan Dinkic. Maybe he even created the world, maybe his rib was made of Eve. Mladjan Dinkic may be an alpha and omega in Serbia, but that is not how one minister is praised, because we could be looking for a high sentence for him if business fails. Neither is he responsible for the work being done, nor will he be guilty if the work fails. But it'll be his fault if you create an illusion that there's nothing wrong with that job and the job isn't done. It will not be Mladjan Dinkic's fault that it is an economic crisis, which "Fiat" fires workers and other factories. But he will be guilty if he suspects the guarantees given by the government of the Russian Federation, and he doesn't doubt the guarantees given by the management of the Fiat. If we set things up like that, that Serbia is a more important guarantee of the private management of a company than the guarantee of the Russian Federation, then Serbia has nothing. At the same time, trade unions warn that you from G17 plus are now putting many workers into the flag, which is a way of funding G17 plus, which among all the people who hire takes 20% for the party. You know that very well. So be careful when you talk to the opposition about the jobs you're running. (President: Time. ) Don’t boast too much, it’s not all your fault and don’t underestimate us that we don’t know anything just because we’re not taking pictures with your partners. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10687	The word is Mr. Jovan Nesovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Zdravkovic and Mr. Milenić, again according to the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, please, Mr Krasic called before.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10688	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I will point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but provided Gordana Comic does not laugh. It's about Article 104. This is where representatives of G17 plus come out and demonstrate the kamikaze that forgot his helmet. He knows what this is about. The kamikaze got on the plane, so he remembered he forgot his helmet and said, "I can't fly without a helmet." That's G17 plus. What's this about? The fact and facts about the situation in the flag are contrary to good expectations. No one's objecting to your beautiful expectations. You go well to the G17 Plus Parliament Club and you say - which would be nice, which would be nice, put your finger on your forehead and enjoy your will. However, when you give your beautiful expectations to the harsh reality, then a tent takes place outside the presidency building. You see, you've now come out to talk, and if you'd spent that time at the flag, probably two new fiats would've come out, two new car fiyats; one would've made Zdravkovic, and the other would've made the mayor or president of the Assembly (I don't know what it was). Why are you slowing us down on that road to Europe? We're late for Europe because of you. These won't provide quorum, vote from Bodrum... Well, when people see us voting from Bodrum, no one's gonna vote us like that. And you, like a kamikaze, we forgot the helmet. To make these stories possible, I suggest that Nada Kolundžija, Susana Grubišić, etc. (of course, they're not in the O.R., they're just on the paper), so you can get in your hand and go to the pioneer park, to that tent over there, and explain everything you're saying to people. You can't convince me, maybe you can convince these guys there. But keep an eye on them, if they call, and some more gather there, then it'll be very difficult for you to do the persuasion. And take your helmet with you, like a kamikaze.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10689	Mr. Nesovicu, please. You have a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10690	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I am fully aware that some are using different epithets and different comparisons to insult both MPs and members of the G17 Plus. Right at the beginning, that doesn't say anything about G17 plus. It speaks of their education and their training is quite adequate to the party they belong to. The second thing, when we talk about a contract with the Fiat, and when we criticise that contract, in normal thinking systems and in normal behavior, it's said what's the second alternative if this is bad. It's the elemental right of someone who criticises to say -- people, this is wrong, the alternative is something else. But to say what else it is. If you look, of all the criticisms that have come, none of them have presented an alternative to the Fiat, which goes along with the flag into one venture. Not a single shred of anything else that might be. No one will say that 500 billion dinars have been given in the last eight years for the flag subsidies in Kragujevac, 80% of the 2009 budget. Guys, is it wise to take part of the citizens' taxes, huge resources, and give to those who don't work? Or should you fight to hire people in Kragujevac? The idea of G17 plus is to fight to hire people in Kragujevac. We'll do everything we can to hire people in Kragujevac, but to get jobs in the King's office, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, and every place where someone wants to open a factory to hire people. The fact that we've been here all day talking about something wrong isn't gonna help anyone. We need to do everything we can to get this guy to come, so people can get a job. There's one more thing I want to say. The government of the Republic of Serbia is behind the project, and the executioner is a resolute ministry, called the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. And one more thing is true. The government signed a contract with the Fiat. There are certain contractual obligations in the contract, both the government and the Fiat, and with the Russian Federation, we have an agreement. The Minister of Economy and Regional Development is struggling to turn the agreement with the Russians into a contract and to have contractual obligations on the one hand. That's the only difference. If what is written in the agreement is converted into a contract, it is excellent, there is no reason why these contracts are not signed or ratified or implemented. Ours is only concerned, when you don't have contracts, that problems can arise. The others said there was no problem, we said, okay, we're going to pull out of all of this, it's going to be done and there's no problem. A person, if not well, will have certain consequences, or responsibilities. In the end, I'd like to propose something to our colleagues from the SRS. If you carry on like this, frankly, you'll be far below 5%.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10691	The word first has Mr. Pastor, as head of the parliamentary group, and then the rest of you will. The order was: Mr. Zdravkovic, Mr. Milenić, and Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10692	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I have a question for you, in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure – why did you withdraw from the procedure of the Association Act? You know very well that the laws of 1980 and 1982, which regulate the area of the citizens' association, are in force. These laws are absolutely out of date, because there are more social organisations for working people, etc. In the light of the law, you wrote that one of the criteria to measure the degree of democracy of a society is the way to regulate the association of citizens and the development of so-called "citizens". Third sector. I think you withdrew this law because there were a lot of amendments and the Assembly was in tea. But this is not the fault of the opposition parties, and it is not some MPs on this side, but rather the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they were not prepared to discuss some amendments with MPs and opposition and MPs on this side of the hall. This lack of elemental readiness for talks, agreements, and compromises has led to the fact that the Assembly came into a teat and you had to withdraw this very important law from the assembly procedure. You remember very well, Mr. Markovic, because you were Minister and in the last government meeting, that this assembly was able to pass four laws from a set of laws that regulate the area of local self-government in exactly three days ago. These were the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Local Elections, the Law on Territorial Organization and the Law on the Capital. We did this because you were ready for talks, agreements and compromises, so we shared that it was possible for the Assembly to adopt laws, and that is, by speedy procedure. The problem is that you are not ready to talk to the ruling majority, let alone the opposition parties. As a result, the entire third sector suffers, thus suffering more than 30,000 associations of citizens, and therefore citizens' associations function and will function for several months under the totally anachronous laws of 1982. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10693	The word has a minister, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10694	Mr. Pastor, I couldn't agree with you. First, only 55 amendments were submitted to the law, of which, I think, 18 were accepted, so there are only 30 amendments left to be considered. But considering that yesterday afternoon, if I'm not mistaken, we've been considering one single amendment, it's quite possible that 33 amendments are being considered for 33 days. We came to this teat we came to, it has nothing to do with the ministry or the law. The law, as a law, is good. I don't know what the problem is, and why you're here now apostrophe of the ministry. You and I don't understand the official use of language and letter. I have one attitude, you have another attitude. We talked about everything else. We have accepted some amendments, and your parties, and the PUPS, so a series of amendments have been accepted. This law is not the first time in the Assembly. And a year ago, this one, in the same text, was in the Serbian Parliament. The government has fallen and, unfortunately, that law has not been passed. I mean, I don't see why you're criticizing the Ministry. No law has yet come to the Assembly without any amendments. There's got to be an amendment. I'm very pleased that these amendments are only thirty. I say again, don't do it because we didn't agree with your MP group on the official use of language and letter, that you're representing it in some other way here. After all, I am very sorry that the law has been withdrawn, but here is the opportunity that, in some future period, which I hope will not be long, we will try to solve these questions of enrollment in the register of the association, perhaps in the way you have suggested, to reconsider the whole situation in light of the preparation, i.e. established working versions of the law on official use of language and letter. Well, I suggest we talk that way. This certainly isn't the way you started here. So, I repeat, I'm sorry that the law was withdrawn. He was withdrawn solely because the National Assembly would have enough time to plead on the issue of not trusting the government, to lead one debate, and then to conduct a budget debate. It would also be irresponsible of me as a minister if I insisted that this law remain, because it might question whether what needs to be done can be done by the end of the regular session, which is to adopt the budget and vote on the government's mistrust.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10695	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mr. Aligrudic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10696	Thank you, under Article 104. What offends the dignity of this home is precisely this withdrawal from the procedure, from this session, the bill of association. You see, unlike these arguments we've heard here, I'm going to give you some others, which I think would be less offensive to all of us and, even, to all of us. In the new session of the National Assembly, you of the ruling coalition have put everything and everything, aware or unaware of how long this session may take, given the laws proposed for it. We had a law governing the territory of the courts, which caused an incredible controversy in the public and controversy in the National Assembly, which, in my account, took us eight days due to the practice of this law. If the ruling coalition came up with the need to withdraw something from the procedure to speed up the work of the National Assembly and reach some other points and some other sessions that, according to the ruling coalition's assessment, were more significant at the moment, it should be withdrawn from the procedure, a law that will enter into force on 1 January 2010. And now, out of the process, the draft law on associations, which among other laws, is one of the key conditions for which we have committed ourselves to the Council of Europe to meet, as our obligation. The law has been waiting since 2001. The last time was not adopted for objective reasons, because elections were called. There is no reason to withdraw this law from the procedure. So you prove that you actually don't understand what priorities are in the work. It is an amazing thing that two or three times the Monitoring Mission of the Council of Europe, both the Committee of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, points to this failure. During the last meeting with Mr Gross and Gerenco, who were representatives of the Monitoring Mission of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as far as I know, all together, including those who are now in opposition, we promised that this law would be passed as soon as possible. We promised, even, that it would be by the end of the year. We didn't commit ourselves to anyone, except yourself, to adopt the law spoken of by a series of judicial laws, which were most objective and reasonable to withdraw from the procedure and thus get extra time from eight working days. As long as you're in such a panic and crowd, you should think of the fact that you've lost 45 days of your summer time to waste your time in the government of the Republic of Serbia every day because 28 or 29 of the laws you promised to come here mid- autumn to be on the agenda of the National Assembly didn't even leave the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If it is true that parliament is the place to talk, and the bill's proposals, but also the policy, where the MPs of the opposition and the authorities sit, where it is normal to start some kind of debate and to hear different polemics, which refers to a certain time, I simply ask - what kind of opposition do you represent to each other in the Government of the Republic of Serbia that you cannot do your job? At the time of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of the Republic of Serbia has showered the National Assembly with bill proposals, with an exact agenda, and you don't have one. What you've done today is, absolutely, a scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10697	Tomorrow, we will have a session dedicated to the government's trust, and I think that a huge number of MPs, by content, should be presented at tomorrow's session and we should return to the agenda today. The word is Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10698	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with your answer. I still think you should have understood the MPs, that it took you weeks to talk to us. If you'd done so, I believe you might be able to bring down the number of amendments to this law to a dozen. A dozen amendments can certainly be made in one day. If we had done that, then this very important area wouldn't have been completely anachronized by the SFRJ laws. Ask, Mr. Minister, the representatives of the third sector what they think about you withdrawing this law. If you had spoken to the MPs, I'm sure we could have reached a compromise solution. But a compromise solution can only be reached in talks, agreements, and without willingness to talk, a compromise cannot be reached. That's why I said that this house was able to pass four very important laws regarding local self-government exactly a year ago, because you went from the parliamentary group to the parliamentary group and made deals with the MPs, and therefore, from one year ago in the European Commission's report on Serbia, there are three positive facts. Two of the three positive facts were reached precisely in those days when the Assembly passed laws in the area of local self - government. One positive fact from the European Commission's report on Serbia is that we have managed to reach legal guarantees for the funding of national councils of national minorities. Another positive fact is that we managed to regulate the Commission's competences for international relations with local self-government, since you accepted these amendments. The third positive fact is the establishment of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. These initiatives stemmed from the opposition then, from the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians. If you are not ready today to talk to the opposition and some parties from the ruling coalition, then the European Commission will not be able to give positive opinions on the progress of the Republic of Serbia on the European path next year. One more sentence to say. There's also a problem with the law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors. We've been pointing to this problem for over a month and a half. You should have withdrawn the law from the assembly procedure, not the association law, because the government currently does not have a majority to vote the law on the seats of courts and public prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10699	Mr. Marash has a word. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary first. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10700	Thank you, Mr. Marash, for understanding. I just have to say one thing. It's not like we didn't talk. Every MP's group I called, some of them agreed to talk, some thought it wasn't necessary. I know it's reliable. I called the SRS, talked to Mr. Todorovic. In the LDP, I had conversations, he was Mr. Ostojic. I had conversations at the PUPS, and I had conversations at the DSS-NS about this law. I spoke to you on the phone with the truth, but I sent the assistant ministers to talk to you professionally, because we agreed it would be an expert conversation. It was you and Mr. Varga. We agreed to be expert conversations, I gave my colleagues instructions, they talked to you. I couldn't accept the amendments you submitted. One dispute was about administrative oversight. You were referring to that omnibus law, I was referring to the State Administration Act. I still think I'm right. So, I couldn't agree to surveillance on the territory of the AP Vojvodina being conducted by the AP Vojvodina. Control is the work of the state administration and is being done by the authorities of the state administration of the Republic of Serbia, so the government. That's one thing. The second is that entry in the register. I told you that a new law on official use of language and letter is being prepared and I told you that if this new law on official use of language and letter is in the direction that you wanted with your amendment, it would certainly apply to the registration of the register. At this point, I'm not ready to accept the registration the way you wanted it. I insist on it being a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, I think it's in accordance with the Constitution and our positive regulations, but here, I don't see why that's why we're discussing it here now when the laws are withdrawn. And I didn't pull the laws, the government pulled the laws. I was here, sitting down, in the meantime there was a government announcement that the laws had been withdrawn. The government has estimated that there is not enough time for all these laws to be found on the agenda. Mr. Pastor, we've been discussing only two amendments since this morning, two amendments all morning, and you want to convince me that we can discuss 30 and some amendments on associations in one day. We can't discuss it, because we have concept differences here. The colleagues of the SRS have a completely different view of the issues of achieving freedom of association and have pointed out that here. They'll discuss their time for each amendment, it's 100%. I couldn't reach an agreement with the SRS like we did when we had laws on local self-government, local elections, capital and territorial organisation. That's when we all managed to reach a consensus of the Assembly, and I tried, and I'm glad everyone agreed that we had, practically, a common law. We don't have it here and it's just not realistic to expect us to go with the Association Act. Friday is not working because St. Nicholas, the National Assembly doesn't work, the National Assembly doesn't work on Sunday, Monday is practically the first day of work. Then how do we get into 25.12 with perhaps unfinished amendments, and we need to vote on a motion to vote for no confidence in the government, and we need to adopt the budget. Therefore, there are laws withdrawn. I hope we have these laws on the agenda in January. And I'm telling you again, Mr. Pastor, we're gonna sit down and talk about it one more time. I have a great desire for the SVM and your MP group to vote for this law and be satisfied with this law. We have a chance in the next month to try to agree on your amendments and let's turn this to positive. We have a chance, I'll try, I'll review all your amendments, we'll talk again, see if we can find a common solution. Perhaps some of your amendments to rephrase, we now have business opportunities for that. Let's look at things positively. We've worked well together all the time, and in the past and in this term, I'm going to make sure that's the way it is now, and now I ask you to respect the government's decision to withdraw these laws. I'm not happy about the law I've been doing, either, but that's the kind of opportunity we have to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10701	Mr. Secretary has no limitations, he can speak at any time, and I have no right to interrupt his exposure. In addition, he tried to tell us once again that there are no essential reasons for breaking the law, on the contrary, that it is technical reasons, but that we can turn this over in favour of more efficient work and that we will very quickly pass the law if we behave accordingly. Mr. Pastor, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10702	Mr. Minister, I am very pleased that you have now promised to discuss these amendments when this bill is returned to the assembly procedure. I hope the Assembly adopts this law already in February, that may be realistic. But, Mr. Minister, I expect of you instead of these explanations and entering the measure of some amendments which, unfortunately, will not now be considered just the answer to one very simple question – who is responsible for what citizens' associations will do in the coming months under the 1982 law?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10703	Mr. Maras has a word, then Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10704	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I thought I'd report in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, but I still have to advertise Article 104. Mr. Markovic has been coming out here for the last hour for the third or fourth time, talking for five minutes and saying we can't cross over more than three amendments for the morning. We can't cross because you, Mr. Markovic, are knowingly obstructing. Now I'm going to tell you why that is. I'm going to make a small contribution to the chaos you're creating. What was said earlier and what Mr. Pastor said, and Mr. Aligrudic, it's quite true. You've put countless laws, nothing tied up, in this agenda, and in the hope that you'll extend them to the moment when the budget is ready. Now you've entered the teat, you're withdrawing the laws, etc. However, I must make, I say, another small contribution. It's December 17th. There are over 170 municipalities in Serbia in total. There's a law called the Law on the financing of local self-government. The law in Article 62 provides for the following thing: "The Unit of Local Self-Government can conclude a contract on the provision of technical and other assistance with the Ministry of Finance - the Tax Administration for transactions under Article 60 of this Act for which implementation is not qualified, with the compensation determined by the Tax Administration". I will read Article 60: "The Unit of Local Self-Government determines, collects and controls public revenues", which belong to local self-government. The position of the 2nd Article 62 states: "The contracted aid referred to in Article 1 of the Tax Administration shall be granted by 31.12.2008 at the latest". Gentlemen of Kragujevac and the other municipalities sitting on two chairs, I am interested – do you know that out of 170 and change the municipalities of only 40 municipalities have been trained to administer incomes that should be poured into the register of local self-government? What about the other 130 municipalities? Of that chaos, of course, no one's taking care of it. I am not saying that Mr. Markovic is responsible for this, of course the Government and the Ministry of Finance are responsible, but no one has thought to bring amendments and additions to this law and to extend the deadline until 31.12.2009. You won't be able to say that the opposition is guilty, that someone has obstructed the work of parliament, so you couldn't make changes and additions. For a simple reason, it never occurred to anyone. Although the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance informed all municipalities in Serbia that in 31.12.2008 they must do the job themselves, unfortunately, only 40 municipalities are prepared for it. What about the other municipalities? I'd like someone to give me an answer, so Mr. Markovic can explain it here for a little while, in five minutes. So, what about the other 130 municipalities? Madam President, you, as head of parliament, might have seen, perhaps someone has sent these amendments and additions to the law, but we haven't received them yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10705	What I said to the previous speaker, that would be the answer, practically, and to your questions. We can't talk about municipalities today. Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am using the right to replicate on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to present my colleagues from G17 plus. But it's only a cause for me, since what he's saying, say almost all the other parliamentary groups or their representatives, especially those who make up the ruling coalition, and some newly created political party, which I like to call "take whatever life gives you." A simple man not to believe what the political elite is doing. In fact, there is one phenomenon of concern for the future of the SRS. If this party really isn't worth anything, it poses no danger to you who are in power, then what are you doing with the Serbian Radical Party? One even threatens not to calm down until they destroy us. They don't say until they beat us, they want to destroy us. It has special weight. What's with the intolerance to the SRS? Only the president can say occasionally that he has certain sympathy for the SRS, and the others for this speaker are tasked with showing how intolerant they are to the SRS and especially to show how intolerable it is for them to even mention the name Vojislav Seselj. What a fear of his coming back! And as the moment approaches for him to return to the country, because it is obvious that he cannot be condemned there for anything, from there he is in the political elite, and not only in parliament but in the media, an increasingly negative otter towards him. Unfortunately, the people think quite differently. Serbian citizens experience the SRS differently and look forward to the return of Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10707	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ostojić answered, and then Mr Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10708	Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. I can't do this under another term, I can't do it under 226. Mr Markovic, you really need to acknowledge that you tried to get these laws through, you have talked to parliamentary groups who wanted to talk, but the fact that the ruling majority, which in some way, stronger or weaker, smaller or larger, has been controlling the media, has been trying for a long time to turn the Assembly to blame for delaying European integration. And it's not the first time the laws have been withdrawn, it's happened before, and it's too often, you've been waiting for the budget now, etc. We want the Assembly to work. We think that even disputes of radicals, which happen here and there (just, have people problem) do not obstruct the work of the Assembly, it lasts half an hour-hour etc. It's something else. So I appeal to you, the ruling majority, and to you, Mr. Minister, you are still in government. We've put forward a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, where these situations would be avoided. All these misunderstandings would be completed on the monitoring committee, which we need to form under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and only those amendments that are not in line with the Committee would remain here in the room. Since there is this proposal, at least end that amendment to the Rules of Procedure. We're wasting our time on that amending Rules of Procedure committee. They're going in a row of commission members, and they've been discussing it for hours, whether it's going to be round, quarter, etc., so they've come up with some irrelevant members, and these are really important members. If the government, Mr. Markovic, is ready to share responsibility for the laws with the Assembly, then it will be very clear who the problem is. The assembly, I'm sure, is ready to take that responsibility. Now it's the government. We've heard some unofficial stories from the ruling majority circles, that our proposal is essentially good, but since it implies that the government has an annual six-month quarterly plan, it should say - you and these laws will come, that it's a little too much commitment of the government and that if the government doesn't realize that plan, it will be clear that the government is guilty. Well, we're sorry. This isn't gonna get us anywhere. You can make an illusion that parliament is responsible, but eventually everything will break through the government and the Prime Minister. So I urge the ruling majority to adopt these amendments to the Rules of Procedure and you will see how different it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10709	Mr. Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10710	Dear President, I have one question, but I would like you to answer me right away – when will it be Voting Day? It's five or I don't know how many bill proposals, so there are five amendments left. Please answer me when it's going to be voter day. This is actually a political issue. (President: Saturday or Monday, probably, but we'll make a deal, we'll have a meeting. Please, the heads of the parliamentary groups and I will discuss it a little bit, just wait, first we have scheduled this session tomorrow. So it's obvious we're not voting today. Well, that's why I answered, because I sensed what was going on. So this assembly and MPs of the opposition have been attacked in the media for the past month as they have been obstructing. Yesterday, the deputy prime minister, the first deputy prime minister of the government, the president of the SPS, a man with no title whatsoever, directly accused us of saying that the passports from January 1st would not apply because of us. Please, if you've already withdrawn these laws, at least let that law be voted upon immediately after this debate is over. Because what's the point of withdrawing the laws and then not voting again, four days? (President: Mr. Andric, don't worry, these laws will be voted on in a timely manner, I take care of it. Thank you for your well-intentioned suggestions, but that's what I take care of. I'm sorry. So this isn't about a well-intentioned suggestion, it's about a violation of Parliament's dignity. If MPs of the opposition, whose group I belong to, are accused of obstructing and where we consider ourselves directly responsible by the ruling coalition for the fact that Serbian citizens will not have documents, or passports, that is to be used as a reason for withdrawing the Association Law and four other laws... So it's not about me being well-intentioned or not. The basic reason was the passport vote. Eight days is due for the law to come into force, three days to notify the consular offices... I don't know either. The whole schedule here was dictated several times yesterday. And in fact, there is no (please don't throw it to me) the majority that can vote that law, or any other law. That's the point. And responsibility, of course, is at the ruling coalition. That's the political point of what I'm saying, it's not a well-intentioned suggestion. Of course no one sitting here is crazy enough to let citizens of Serbia have no documents since January 1st. It is about the abuse in the media, which you, too, have contributed to, President of the Assembly, not reacting to in the way it was supposed to react. We could have passed that law yesterday, right after the debate ended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10711	Time, Mr. Andric. We couldn't. We couldn't do business yesterday. Don't worry, he'll be voted in time. I am also taking this opportunity to inform the citizens that there will be no problem. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10712	I'm advocating a violation of Article 27, which refers to holding a session of the National Assembly. You can only set the voting day within the session that is under way. You don't have to determine it the same day that the debate ends in details according to the last item of the agenda, it's the only thing you don't have to do, but you can't start the second session until you've finished the session that was under way. There is no such kind of creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, nor is there a time when in the ruling coalition the DSS was ever done. That would be something brand-new. You did it, or you tried to do it, during this coalition of yours, but, you know, there's always something to end. It can't be done like that to infinity. Mr. Aligrudic, I really apologize... ) Let me explain what the breach of the Rules of Procedure on your part consists of, and then you explain it to me. (President: Well, I thought the answer would satisfy you, that maybe there wouldn't be any need... I just wanted to say I'll let you know by the end of this session. I was planning on agreeing all of us together, but here, I'm telling you, by the end of this session, so probably by the end of today's work day, I guess today we're gonna finish this session, you're gonna have a voter's day notice, and that's absolutely consistent with what you're talking about and in accordance with Rule 85 of our Rules of Procedure. All right, thank you for that. So I've got another 35 seconds left on this time, which you've taken from me now. So, you said for a moment that the idea was to vote after a session that would be held on the government's trust. That's not possible, according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't see the reasons why you're suggesting that, say today, after this session is over, you don't vote. What reasons would that be? If you say you don't have 126 MPs to vote on, I can understand that, but I can't figure it out, because you wanted to work both Saturdays and nights to get to Vote Day as soon as possible, let the media know stories about the fact that the passport decisions won't, my God, be adopted, how the citizens will be left without the opportunity to travel and similar nonsense... That's what's been said, it's been withdrawn in the media, because it's what you've arranged to lead the attack against the opposition. Today we find, apparently, from your statement, that you do not have 126 MPs to vote on the day you get the chance to do so. Here, we'll contribute to that, momentarily. We'll talk about amendments necessarily a little bit, how much it takes to understand what the amendment wanted, to get as much time as possible. Here, today, vote the laws that are on the agenda of this session. Do it. If you don't do it, what does that mean? You don't have a majority? That the government fell? Then how are you going to vote on Saturday? How are you going to vote on Monday? Well, you wanted to, you were going to vote as soon as possible. Here, today is your chance to vote as soon as possible. Here, do it. What's stopping you? Do you have 126 or not? If you don't have 126 MPs, say it openly, so everyone knows. Do not honor us with problems in the National Assembly, do not invent (not you personally, I am not talking to you, I am speaking to the ruling coalition) reasons for the media, which is why Serbian citizens, allegedly because of the opposition's actions, are going to suffer. They won't suffer anything, not for a second, not for a moment. Here, vote everything you have today. Do it. What kind of way is it to make up some new rules, to start the next session tomorrow at 10.00, which, by the way, was scheduled earlier, so that, apparently after that session, you can hold a vote for the session that has passed? It's nowhere to be found. There's no such thing as our rules of procedure. These creative interpretations, as well as the creative interpretations of Article 85, which we have discussed more with Mrs. Comić than we have discussed with you so far, are simply amazing and difficult to allow. I've just told you this, and I don't think I'm going to be answering the Rules of Procedure anymore, or any of us, to draw any attention to this. Anyway, you do what you want, but you make sure that people look at this and make sure you behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we'll make sure that no one's interest here is compromised and damaged, so here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10713	Thank you. For the sake of the citizens, and I am convinced that MPs know, I will have to read to you Article 3 85: "The President of the National Assembly determines the days for voting after the debate on all points of the agenda." There's another point under discussion. So, when the debate on all points is over, and I urge it to be effective, you will be informed of voter day. Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10714	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Member 27. The Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with this article that you just read. Madam President, you know as well as I personally, as an MP, and the LDP parliamentary group have a lot of understanding about the way you conduct the sessions and the pressures you have to conduct the sessions in this way. We don't think it's your fault when there's 15 laws on the agenda. We don't think it's your fault to let the budget be discussed until December 20th. Simply, these are the circumstances in which you have to work. But now you have the opportunity, Madam President, to show that you are above party interests, that you are above the interests of the ruling majority. You have a chance to call a meeting of the heads of Parliament. I'm sure you'll all get the consent to vote after today. There will be more than 126 MPs here once we have completed the debate under these amendments. Make an appointment today, you can do it. In line with the Rules of Procedure, you can schedule a vote five minutes after the debate is over, at least on the agenda when it comes to passports. I'm sure the MPs of other opposition parties will be ready to stay here after the debate is over, too, to show that it's not what's going on in the media. And what is trying to do throughout the country through this Parliament -- creating chaos, one strategy that exists (not with you, but with some who are leading this country), show that you are ready to rise above it. So, we're all okay with that, we're gonna stay here at the end of the day, schedule five minutes after the session of the vote on the item of the agenda, which is being run for days, that citizens won't be able to travel and get passports. That's what we're asking of you. Be as responsible as you've been so many times. Show your willingness to accept the opposition's proposal. You can see for yourself that we are all unique in this, and the opposition, and I believe MPs of the position, to vote today on this item of the agenda, to enable our citizens to stop what the ruling majority has been worshiping through their media for days and weeks, that the opposition is obstructing and that this is why citizens will not be able to get new passports and travel. Madam President, be responsible, you are working in accordance with the article. 27, 98 and 85, let us vote today, as colleagues Andric and Mr Aligrudic have suggested, and you will see that we can do one job together. That's what we've been proposing to you lately, to bring together all the heads of the parliamentary groups, in the far line, and the party president, to see how we can get the country out of this mess that someone consciously pushed her into, and that's what the opposition is accused of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10715	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10716	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 226 and ask for a notice from you. I will not explain much why neither in July nor in August, nor in all these days, and how the opposition parties, the names of the SRS, NS, DSS, LDP and all others accused of obstructing the work of this assembly. Now, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, the time has come for the Serbian public to know that we've forced the Emperor to blow. We are asking on behalf of Serbian citizens to vote today on all points of the agenda. There are four or five amendments left, I speak on behalf of the NS MPs, no one will answer, no one will spend a second. We ask to vote today because the opposition has been indicted, in almost all media outlets, that Serbian citizens will not have passports. Let's do them the honors. Here's the evidence - we're here and we'll vote for that law. Order that we vote today! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10717	Mr. Andric, you have your word. I really can't plan voting day, given the length of work, by just two amendments. I really can't plan my time, and you're helping me with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10718	I can say on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group that we will no longer report to the Rules of Procedure or to the amendments. I just want to say one more thing, which is abuse again. If there was a will to agree with MPs of all parties in this House, and with MPs of the opposition, you would also agree on which laws will be withdrawn from the procedure and when it will be Voting Day. So, you've withdrawn the laws without any consultation, and now, when it comes to moving forward, you will now hold consultations, or you will tell us when the ruling majority will have 126. We heard from the representatives of a ruling party that they would not vote for some laws. I suppose now you want to have time to press them or make them vote for it. These are your things, and what we have in mind is the urgency of adopting passport laws. We are all here, calling on the other MPs of the opposition not to report again and to allow the passport law to be passed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10719	I also urge us to work effectively. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does Mr Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want the final word? Yeah. I thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10720	I'm glad you understood the need to pass this law and to give up these amendments. I don't want to spoil this happy atmosphere. [[Applause]] I hope to see you very soon about the Association Act, which is now withdrawn, and I hope we adopt it in an equally beautiful atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10721	Gentlemen, I'm really asking you not to put pressure on me right now. I've been informed at the same time that the laws have been withdrawn. I'll close the search first, then I'll tell you. So, after an hour's break, you'll be notified of voter day. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. In the day of the vote, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality, and after an hour I will inform you which day it will be. (Notify – 15.00) Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you know when we finished the session, you know, and what is the technical procedure. So, in an hour, I'll tell you exactly when it's going to be voter day, and the date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10724	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have violated Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: "When all points of the agenda are considered and decided by them, the President of the National Assembly concludes the session of the National Assembly. "You can't close this session, you can't start a new session until it's over, as article 99 says, deciding on these agenda points that we've just finished. Ladies and gentlemen, in this act, you have shown how you are actually obstructing the work of parliament, and Serbia, and the interests of Serbian citizens. For days you've been saying that opposition MPs are obstructing parliament's work because we're talking about amendments, because we're trying to impose a topic of Eulex, a topic of corruption and crime, a topic of serious economic crisis, all those topics that are on the shoulders of Serbian citizens and that burden Serbia's citizens. You don't let that happen. Every time we report to the Rules of Procedure on these, the most important topics today in Serbia, you try to display your media as an obstruction. We have shown today that we are constructive, we have agreed not to talk about four amendments, which is not common for the SRS MPs, just to make a concession, not to you, but to show the citizens of Serbia, that we are in the interests of Serbian citizens, above all we are referring to the travel documents law, the possibility that Serbian citizens may not be in trouble, that they cannot travel because this government was unable to resolve the passport issue in accordance with the law that is in force and because the government has requested an extension of the deadline. We accepted that, convinced that you would provide the quorum to vote. You have no quorum, and that is your problem, but of course, we cannot allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure. Article 99. The rules of procedure are decided and clear. So until you finish deciding on the agenda points that we've been discussing for a month and a few days, you can't go to some new agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10725	Mrs. Radeta, you're absolutely right, the session is concluded after a statement on the agenda points. So, I haven't concluded this session, it will be closed after the vote. I've set a voting day. This Parliament's practice was like this, and it's a business possibility, competent lawyers assured me of that. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10726	Article 99. Namely, the competent lawyers who assured you of this probably had in mind one or two precedents that happened since 2004. That might not be controversial. And even if someone made a mistake then, so be my political party, it doesn't mean that the same mistake has to be repeated indefinitely. This is definitely the opposite of Article 99. Rules of Procedure. The session ends with a decision. It may break up, but nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, you don't have the opportunity to interrupt the session to insert someone else. There is a possibility to put the budget in session, the Rules of Procedure shall specify exactly the exceptions when and what can be inserted, counting the human questions etc. You don't have this option. The dispute over whether it was ever or not, it's totally passé. We cannot establish the rule of something that was precedent, because we are not doing according to precedent law, but we are working on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Excuse me, please. You can, like most people, do what you like and there's nothing we can do about it, but you can't claim it's okay. Simply, there are no interpretations of the Rules of Procedure on which this can be considered a correct move. It would simply be possible to complete this session by making a decision, as it stands in the Rules of Procedure, as it stands in Rule 99, and everything else is not the arguments of the Rules of Procedure. After all, these can be arguments of a political nature, so we can discuss this summer day by noon, but this is definitely not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-17-0.u10727	I'm asking the heads of parliament to come to the meeting, to discuss further work. Tomorrow at 10:00 we'll have a session that's scheduled.
