ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9369	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for today's session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a COURT OF COURTS AND COUNTRIES OF COURTS AND PUBLIC AUTHORITIES (resuming in particular) In the previous working day, we have stopped at Article 4, where the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Suleiman Spaho, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the inability to address Professor Vojislav Seselj personally to the citizens of Serbia and to congratulate all the citizens of Islamic religion the great Muslim holiday of Kurban Bayram, to spend it in peace and tolerance, I am using this opportunity to wish on his behalf that this great holiday be a holiday of reconciliation of all differences in the Islamic community of Serbia, for the benefit of every Muslim in Serbia. I personally join the congratulations and wishes of my esteemed President, Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9371	The word is Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. A bill of law ahead of us. When I explained that amendment, I said that I would also submit to Article 4, which is today, an amendment, which is fully addressed to Article 3, i.e. the amendment to Article 3. I'm going to try not to say it again, although I'm going to have to do it again today. I thought the Phinian Management District was big enough and had two basic courts. We have seven municipalities. I assumed that this high court in Vranj would be responsible for two basic courts, for the Vranj basic court and for the Surdulica Court. The basic court in Surdulica would in principle be in charge of the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Vladikin Han and Surdulica, while Vranjska's primary court would be in charge of the courts in Bujanovac, Presevo, the Shop and the town of Vranj. I also said last time, I will tell you today, Madam Minister, no matter what I think about this legislative proposal, I have tried to find the arguments, the arguments for these amendments, exactly, in the arguments and arguments made by you or by the representatives of the assembly majority and I have been leading, absolutely, to what you have insisted, the geographical distance, the availability of justice, the road infrastructure and everything else you have stated in your explanation. Before we touch the geographical distance and the road infrastructure, I would ask you a question – in whose interest is the adoption of such a law? The opposition is absolutely against and the revolt of the opposition against the law is expressed through arguments, both through discussion, and through the number of amendments. Two-thirds of the people sitting behind you, I'm convinced, are not in favor of this law. If they're going to vote, believe me, it's not their sincere, true position, it's their party or political obligation. It's really like that and you could have concluded it on Friday night. Officials criticised radicals for failing to submit amendments to some members of the law. It silences them, but they can't, and they don't have the mechanisms to show they're not up for this bill. If the public isn't into it, the MPs in the assembly aren't, I ask you, who's interested and whose interest is one of these laws? The objectively, revolt, or reaction, were left behind by those who were perhaps the most likely to react, which are judges, bearers of judicial functions. Why did they keep quiet? They didn't shut up because they're justifying the law. I think you've systematically forced them to keep quiet. You made them keep quiet because of the re-election that you overlooked in the law on judges, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, you made them keep quiet, because every judge today in Serbia can see himself in 400 or 500 of those who will eventually, without a job for entering, or applying this and this law, or so on. Your rationalization of the justice system. I think you could give us that answer, if you can. I'd like to hear that, and probably other MPs, so here we are, today or until the end of the debate in particular, if you find it appropriate, I'd like to get that answer. This is where you insisted on geographical distance. You see, Madam Minister, I have tried to endure my amendment in the spirit of that principle. If you know the Pcinj County, if you had the opportunity to be down there, you could see that the municipalities of Bosilegrad, Vladik's Khan and Surdulica, absolutely, are gravity and are directed to each other, while, on the other hand, these three municipalities, or four municipalities, Vranje, Trgovište, Presevo and Bujanovac, are also directed to each other. Based on each other's geographical orientations, this is the kind of amendment I predicted. I'll just give you a few details about Bosilegrad. Bosilegrad will now, by your law, have the basic court in Vranj. I spoke to SO Bosilegrad, my colleague from the SRS, Mr Zoran Stojanov, and here's what he told me. In Bosilegrad, for example, there is a village called Barje. To get the citizens of that village to Bosilegrad, they have, first of all, an hour on foot, and then another hour on a bus to Bosilegrad. That bus traffic twice a day. To get to Vranj, to his primary court, it takes 2.5 hours to drive. What I've said applies to ideal weather conditions, the good will of one who travels and, of course, a decent car. So it takes so long for a citizen of the Bosilegrad municipality to reach his primary court in Vranj. The amendment provided for the possibility of making justice more accessible, that is, to reach Surdulica. In Surdulica, there are all conditions for one basic court. That's what I talked about last time, so I wouldn't do it again. Of the other municipalities at County level, the only problem is getting to the Shop, due to poor travel infrastructure. All other municipalities are on good communication – Bujanovac, Presevo, Vladic's Han, and we can all travel and reach each other. But these are two municipalities that, because of this concept of law, will really have problems. Now you will go out for a pay phone and say: "The people will not travel." Once you say – you will not travel to citizens, you say twice – you will not travel to judges, and you insist on the principles of geographical distance and travel infrastructure. Just explain to me in what context it insists on geographical distance and regularity of the travel network. Who's going to travel? If no one's going to travel, what's he insisting on? Further to what needs to be said, as regards the Pcinian Administrative District and, in general, the southern Serbia, is that all this will reflect on a balanced regional development and decentralisation, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been talking about since 2000, regardless of who did it, it doesn't matter. This law is absolutely in the function of a government that has done nothing in this context in the last eight years. The illustration works, Madam Minister, I'll only read you a few details when it comes to Bosilegrad. Of the 10,000 residents, it's permanent or at a certain time, it's 1,490 workers, 15.13%. Of these, 278 are in production, and everything else is the budget, which is the municipalities, which is the Republic of Serbia, and the service activity. You can imagine how these people live up there. Now, look, there's some data you'd like to hear, and they're indirectly related to this story, or the fact that this is going to be opposed to even regional development and decentralisation. The Republic Statistics Institute of the Republic of Serbia has not published data on social gross product and national income since 2005. It processes them, but it does not reveal them. Now you'll see why. So this applies to the 2000-2005 period. Belgrade has increased its stake in Serbia's social product from 28% to 34%; Vojvodina, from 30% to 31%, and central Serbia, without Belgrade, has reduced from 41% to 34%. The average annual rate of social product growth in Belgrade is 9.5%, in Novi Sad 16%, in Nis 10.3%, and in Serbia, without Belgrade and Nis, 0.7%. Why does this matter? I'm saying this because of this province that is definitely going to be hit by this law. It will be struck by this law, because, objectively, the needs for both judges and court staff will be reduced and the resources that will, at this point, arrive, will not arrive at that time. Extreme cases of decline represent Bor, Majdanpek and Kladovo, which decreased their growth from 88% to 93%. Do you know what irony is now? Their development at this time can be compared to the development of these municipalities before the First World War. But you may have taken a good look at that district, because you've provided for two basic courts in four municipalities, and here, for seven municipalities, you're giving a basic court. There are interesting criteria you've been running. This is now very important -- in the same period, Belgrade has increased the number of employees by 18 000, Novi Sad by 14000, but Serbia, without Belgrade and Nis, has reduced the number of employees by 75 000, or Vojvodina by 19 000. I mentioned this data to show you the fact that this law will increase stratification, social differences, economic differences between urban environment and province, because you have concentrated everything in the district headquarters, or in cities, which you have predicted that cities or administrative districts have at least one basic court. That's not good. It doesn't contribute to decentralisation. Personally, I think you're in centralization. Serbia has never been more centralised than it is today, and in terms of finance, state administration, local self-government, and here, now the judiciary. What happens next, we'll see. What I would like, as a third, and lastly, to say in this story, is, Madam Minister, I mentioned, that you have forced the judges and the judicial public into a silent boycott, or silence, not to express their dissatisfaction in an adequate manner with such a legal proposal. What you predicted by law definitely indicates the fact that it was written by people who do not understand the spirit, the mentality of the people in small areas, or should I say - in the province. I would say that the law was written by people who experience Serbia as much as they see it from the roof of Belgrade, or maybe they traveled through Serbia when they went to Thessaloniki, shopping, or to Thessaloniki to vote. I think, Madam Minister, that you should accept the opposition's proposal to withdraw the law. If you are not willing to do so, accept the amendment by Mrs Radovic, and if you are not prepared for it, I do not think my amendment is irrational, I think it is functional and that it will not compromise your wrong concept at all. On the contrary, I think he'll be in his position of approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9373	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9374	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(7). Since the amendment, with a correction, to Article 3 has been adopted, I am withdrawing the proposed amendment, since it is obviously not in line with the amendment adopted to Article 3 of this Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9375	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic withdrew the amendment. The amendment which has been withdrawn by the decision of the applicant shall cease to be subject to discussion in the procedure. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Siniša Stamenkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted several amendments to a set of laws on justice. All amendments are legally possible and would be rational if they were accepted. In a discussion of the previous days, all of my distinguished colleagues and MPs presented a large number of amendments, which were also well-founded, reasonable and acceptable and all of them should become an integral part of all our laws. I'd like to draw attention to a few facts about my amendment. When developing a support programme for the municipalities of eastern Serbia, i.e. Pirot, Knjižvac, Zaječar, Sokobanj, Bolovac, Bora, Majdanpek, Negotin, Kladov, Babusnica, Beli Palanca, Dimitrovgrad, Svrljiga, Crno Trava and Vlasotinc, which applied as a European programme from 2004 to 2006, then the Conference on European Security and Co-operation, led by Mauritius Masarije, agreed that Serbia will not work further centralisation, in all three forms of government – equally in the legislative, judicial and executive, that everything will be done to ensure that citizens from mixed border municipalities between Serbia, Bulgaria and Romania remain in their hears. One of the most important projects, which intended to keep citizens, was judicial reform. This promise of Europe is not fulfilled by such a set of laws. At the same time, only from the municipalities of Negotin and Kladovo, 8,000 citizens have requested and received a discharge from the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which is extremely alarming. Secondly, when looking at the situation and problems in our judiciary, in the framework of a permanent conference of municipalities and cities of Serbia, during the mentioned period, from 2004 to 2006, the following was found: a large number of violations of the right to a fair trial of citizens and legal persons; to a significant extent, the right to the unimpeded enjoyment of property; an excessive violation of the right to respect for private and family life; the right to freedom of expression, as well as the right to freedom and security of movement of all citizens are violated. All of these traits of our judiciary are mainly due to excessive litigation of courts, lack of personnel, adequate techniques and poor preparation of debates, poor preparation of hearings, litigation and guilt. It is necessary to remind ourselves that, because of human rights violations and because of claims for return of illegally acquired property, due to the length of the case of litigation and guilt, more than three years, against the Republic of Serbia, before the European Court of Human Rights, 690 plays were considered, and in 2003 there were only 101. The new scheme of the organisation of the courts will not contribute to the efficiency of the courts, and will cause a mass of direct and collateral damage, to which my respected colleagues have been pointing for several days in this debate. A particular problem in the practical application of judicial decisions and solutions, as provided for by this judiciary scheme, will consist of the work of the executive judicial departments and agencies for the forced collection of claims under judicial investigative decisions. With these legal solutions, we are putting a large number of Serbian citizens in an unequal position, as we oblige them to travel even 300km to carry out certain procedural and legal actions to collect claims. The transition of certain responsibilities in a transparent procedure, based on criminal offences and on the security of traffic, from investigative judges to prosecutors – will put a large number of citizens in a position to wait hours in inadequate conditions to carry out insightful and procedural actions. My amendments to the law on courts of criminal, basic and higher levels, as well as on prosecutors, aim to prevent the withdrawal of another status mark of small palans and places in southeastern Serbia, of course, and throughout Serbia. This would certainly contribute to Serbia's rapid decentralisation, the reduction of negative demographic trends from the village to the city, and the lives of people in small civil mixed areas make them more worthy and fulfilling. I must point out the regret that in this set of laws no transparent procedure has been proposed for the appointment and promotion of judges, criminal courts and prosecutors. I felt that it was better to define the mandate of a special prosecutor for organised crime, when we had to adopt regulations to regulate measures to establish a more effective system for conducting all investigations. An emergency procedure for the adoption of the necessary laws in the judiciary, due to current developments in society and the state, had to be applied first, i.e. to adopt a law on temporary blocking and preventing suspicious financial transactions; to extend the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, especially for judges and prosecutors; to adopt a law establishing the responsibilities of legal and natural persons for acts of corruption; to adopt a set of laws and regulations so that the national auditory institution can carry out its function; to adopt a law on public order and morality, to make our children less affected by prostitution, by night life and by drugs and to reduce general social aggression. An amendment that I have submitted to Article 4 of point 12. The bill is legally possible. The amendment has carried out professionally and thoroughly evidence that in Negotin, namely Negotin and Kladovo, a senior court must be retained, because these are municipalities on the international waterway of Rayna-Maina-Dunav-Odesa. These municipalities are two international border crossings, with Romania and Bulgaria, i.e. municipalities with two large hydroelectrics and several national enterprises, such as National Park, Youth Camp, Serbia and Serbia. All these so-called. Great taxpayers end up working in higher courts, not in lower courts. Ladies and gentlemen, in the previous days, a certain concern has been expressed in this debate by honourable MPs about how the MPs who have tabled the amendments will vote. I think we will vote in favour of our amendments, in order for the judiciary to settle better, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the employees of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9377	He has the word of Ambassador Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9378	Gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Minister, this legislative proposal on the seat of the courts may go free in the book of Ginis, as far as the number of amendments are concerned. No smaller legal proposal, no more amendments. In the previous days, we have listened to the story of the opposition and the position that this legal proposal is wrong and that it should simply be withdrawn from the congregation procedure. The situation is dissatisfied with Srema, Backa, Banata, Swords and all regions of Serbia. The main concern is the corrupt tradition of the even territorial layout of municipal and district courts. Now they're some kind of basic and senior courts. In the principle debate, I criticised this failure to complete a network of basic and senior courts. I commended the establishment of the appeals courts, and therefore the necessary three-degreeities of the courts. A new termology called courts appeared for the first time in the history of the Serbian judiciary. As I said, basic courts and higher courts are mentioned. The courts, therefore, do not have a specific name for the territory for which they are responsible, but are named according to the hierarchy on the scale of the courts in importance. I have the impression that this is some kind of trial with courts, that this is an experimental network of courts, as if these are self-government socialism relics, when the names for institutions that never existed in the past were introduced. Thus, the bill deletes traditional names for lower and more courts, municipal and districtal, who are insulted by the people and which represent the legal administrative tradition of the Serbian state. The tradition was already established in the Ustasha times, when, in 1807, it started with the magistrates, as first-degree courts, and the Grand Court, in 1811, which was a second-degree court instance. Since 1817, the Belgrade court, or the Belgrade magistrate, has been mentioned as first-degrees. The first Nahih court was the Soviet Fire Department, founded in 1821, and it is the predecessor of district courts. In 1823, Prince Milos raised the Kragujeva People's Court to a higher court, named - general, who performed second-degree function. It is already the 1838 Serbian Library Constitution, the so-called The Turkish constitution, envisioned the formation of analogue courts, or country courts, would today be said to be municipal, first-degree and appeals courts. Since then, a Serbian court tradition has been established, which has been held to this day. In the post-constitutional phase, administrative judicial laws began to be passed in the Principality of Serbia. According to Western European models at the time, each court in Serbia has received special judicial law. As early as 1839, a law was passed on the establishment of a state council, in fact, a administrative court. In 1840, laws were passed on the establishment of district courts, the law on the establishment of an appeal court. The Supreme Court Act was passed in 1846. As the economy minister boasted that the new draft budget was made according to the best traditions of the Kingdom of Serbia, I again refer to the best court tradition of the Principality, or the Kingdom of Serbia. Today's legislators should imitate the established tradition of the Kingdom of Serbia. The 1865 court law confirmed the three-step network of courts, established in the period between Obrenovic and the founder. It is interesting to point out that this 1865 court law remained in force until 1929. The 1877 constitution confirmed court's three-stage independence and full judicial independence. In Serbia, there were still first-degree district courts, appeals, cassation courts. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the network of courts remained largely unchanged. Under the 1929 court law, court functions were met, instead of municipal, then county, as first-degree, appeals and cassation courts. In addition to these regular courts, there was a trade court, which was now abolished, unfortunately. In the socialist Yugoslavia, the August 1945 Law on Courts provides for the formation of meeting, district and supreme courts of federal units. Previously, on 13 August 1945, appeals and cassation courts of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, as well as the State Council, i.e. the Administrative Court, were abolished. According to the 1963 court law, courts were divided into municipal courts, instead of happy, county and supreme courts. Under the 1974 law on the courts of the Republic of Serbia, regular courts served as municipal and district courts and the Supreme Court of Serbia. Under the 1991 court law, courts of general jurisdiction, municipal, district and Supreme Court of Serbia are scheduled. The 2001 law provides for the establishment of courts of general jurisdiction, municipal, county, appeals, Supreme Court and special courts. The first five-October government, which, otherwise, Serbian radicals do not have a positive opinion, passed the Law on Courts, in November 2001, which is much more systematic, more transparent, simpler than these draft laws ahead of us. In this historic review of the network of courts, it is clear that the tradition of the Serbian judiciary, which was tripled by 1945. Roughly speaking, there were municipal, county -- first-degree, appeals as second-degree, cassation as third-degree court. Through the history of Serbia and Yugoslavia, it can be said that the coverage of the territory of the courts was well and evenly distributed. The principality of Serbia, or today's narrow Serbia, has had hundreds of similar, or rural courts, which have grown into municipal ones. According to historian Ljusic, Serbia was flooded with numerous analogue courts, each municipality had one court, he said. 1.251. Since it's an incredible number, maybe it's a printing mistake, but if it's 125, it's a large number of courts for small Serbia. It can therefore be concluded that Serbia was well covered by a network of courts. As the chronicler of that time pointed out, therefore, it was the time of 1840-1850, then the authorities sought to secure for each court courts courts, prisons, crosses, gospels, court regulations and the 1838 Constitution. Each district, according to the law of 1840, had one district court. Since 1841, Belgrade has had, even, two district courts, a Belgrade and district court that included Umka, Mladenvec, Lazarets and Grocke's territory, and the second Belgrade district court has also been called a peasant court. In Prekomanovo Serbia, at the time of the creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, there were even 38 first-degree courts, 19 in areas joined after the Balkan wars, meaning, in Macedonia and in Cosmet. The 1946 law prescribed the existence of 16 district courts in Serbia, six in Vojvodina, in Cosmet - four. According to the 1966 law, there were 146 municipal courts and 26 district courts, so much more than today. According to the 1974 law, there were 19 districts, 94 municipal courts in close Serbia, and, according to the 1991 law, there were 138 municipal and 30 district courts in all Serbia, and today, unfortunately, according to this proposal, it is reduced to 36 municipal and 26 district courts. So today's bill of law does not have the necessary coverage of Serbia's territory to courts. There are no courts. There is no justice. In my opinion, Serbia should fully preserve its rich judicial tradition, safeguard judicial institutions that are previously founded, especially a network of municipal and district courts that should cover Serbia's territory evenly. As for the distance of courts, many have talked about it, courts must be accessible to Serbian citizens. If such a network of basic and higher courts remains, public dissatisfaction will be caused, and dissatisfaction in the country will also exist between the regions. So, not everyone will be pleased. For this reason, I propose that this proposal of the law on the seat of the courts be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and completed, and also applies to the draft law on courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9379	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9380	Of course, this amendment follows the same argument as the other amendments to Article 4. The bill, but I must say that it also catches some legal-logic link with the previous amendments, especially with the amendments submitted to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Why? Because Article 3. The bill regulates the seat and territory of the basic courts, and this Article 4 refers to the territory and seat of the higher courts. It's simple, Yellowy's absolutely right. He made a historic review of the organisation and the seats of our courts in the Republic of Serbia over 150 years of our judicial history and of what has been handled by legislators in the past, but here, indeed, it must be looked at, this law establishes a place as the seat of a court, and an area, or territory in which jurisdiction is spread. We could say that this is a law that defines the local jurisdiction of the courts, and it's really a huge lack of this bill that he doesn't actually have the principles, the principles on which it's based. If the principle of territorial division of the Republic of Serbia, administrative division towards the districts, then, at least in basic and higher courts, it would have to be a principle – there must be at least one basic court and at least one higher court in each district, and you can, on the basis of that, develop some division, I mean both basic courts and judicial units, etc. If that principle were to be accepted, then the number of basic and higher courts would have to match. Whether it was 34, or 28, or 25, it doesn't matter, but it would have to be there. I am saying this because of the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic, which refers to the territory of the District Court in Nis. You said about this territory – one basic court in Nis and one higher court in Nis. If we were to start from the assumption that this is a principle, then, believe me, we couldn't accept what's going on, that at certain points of Article 4, you have the seat and territory of a higher court determined by adding up two basic courts, for example, the Supreme Court of Capac, to the area of the primary court in Loznica and the Court of Fundamental Court in Šapec. You have 26 higher courts, basics – 34. If you went from the principle - the territory on which there is a basic court is the same and there must be a higher court on it, then you would have to have 34 higher courts. You didn't do it. You're somewhere, some districts, you've shared, you've connected some districts somewhere, and you can see that political influence here. It's because of Dusan Petrovic. Dusan Petrovic has allowed the bankruptcy mafia to be free to defend itself from freedom. That's all he accepted to be the minister of justice in the previous meeting, just to let the bankruptcy mob out. Now take the story, when Bosko Ristic is, by position, a member of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, a disaster, people, judges and prosecutors, you robbed Bosnia. You didn't apply that basic principle. In one of the previous laws, the draft law on the regulation of courts has defined a fairly real jurisdiction, depending on the type of court, so it is said – the basic is almost always first-degree, the higher is always first-degree, is extremely second-degreed for some things, in relation to the decisions of the basic court, the appeal is completely appeal and that we do not move on. We will now have a situation that, when the Supreme Court acts as a complaint, there will be appeals for the decisions of two basic courts, and this paper will be appealed for the decisions of only one basic court, in Nis. I cite all of this as an example of total political domination in formulating something that is a very simple question. It's the headquarters and the area. This law only needs to say where the seat of the court will be and to define the local jurisdiction, so that there is no overlap, that two senior courts are responsible for one municipality, in particular, when it comes to Article 4, and when it comes to Article 3, that the jurisdiction of two or more basic courts does not correspond. You see for yourself, when it goes so far without principle, then something else hides behind it, and it hides what we talked about. But since there's a low drama for today, yesterday people had a chance to see the DS General Board of Saturday three times in Dnevnik. Judges and prosecutors, the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic said - the first task in 2009 is to take the poles and preserve your jobs. Let me say it one more time, because it's been repeated three times in the same diary, to remember, so Tadic didn't say -- when you chose me, 500 thousand new places, that's what he pulled. He didn't even brag about hiring, and he pulled it. He said that a comet called - the global financial crisis, and that task was number one... Democrats, please, he rebuked you, you have four checkpoints where time is measured, at the first point you fell. That's where you fell, because you legalized the theft in the Assembly, which rebuked you. He won't put up with you anymore. Take care, you'll be changed. So he said -- defending the workplace is a sacred task in 2009. Judges and prosecutors, please write down the date, said President Boris Tadic – all of you in the office, to defend the judge's office and the prosecutor's office. Please, respect the President of the Republic, it's not a cat's cough. Defense of the workplace, Rabbit, that's a warrant you have to apply. The second warrant, Rabbit, which you've got, is to control the ministers. They can't steal, so they can embarrass the President of the Republic. This is what he said, three times the "Dnevnik" said, that the nation remembers -- defense jobs, everyone in the workplace by the crowbar, the tributary, and to keep the job, because the president can't guarantee otherwise what he said. If someone didn't mind me, it's what I support, hard hearts, but I support them. What do we do?- I'm sorry. Look what these tycoons are like, you're working now, you're not working the day after tomorrow, you're out. Did you see what those strikers did in Vorbas? It went so far, man had to go to Tom. When Peconi takes matters into his own hands, there's no... President Tadic can't handle the tycoons. tycoons, remember, a month ago there was a law on the criminal liability of legal persons for crimes committed by the responsible persons in a legal person. It has been said that this law will enter into force at the end of this year or early next year, i.e. 2010. Why? He's not gonna let her get away with it anymore. He promised 500 thousand new jobs. Remember when Djindjic said – we have been importing labour since 2005, it was a big statement. Tadic promised 500,000 seats, only he could win. Now he said -- the big crisis, we can't do it, we'll cut it down, but the first task is to defend the job. Judge, you're defending your position. Prosecutors, defend your job, defend your place, because Tadic said. They have these to run, and four checkpoints to measure them. You fell at the first point, you don't respect the Constitution, you don't respect the law. Here's the second checkpoint. I hope you will inform Mr Tadic. In the war crimes prosecutor's office, there is prosecutor Dragoljub Stankovic. I can't tell you what they told me about him, and I don't want to tell you, so you don't jump in and say this, say that. There is a strong doubt, given that he has been in the office with Vukcevic for many years, and there are doubts with some lawyers, various doubts exist. One sparrow whispered to me like this -- if you squeeze him, and he's already got a few lawyers in custody, to tell the story, otherwise, he swore that for a million euros he'd retire, if you squeeze him... Just to remind you, he signed the solution that Janjusevic and Kolesar are model gentlemen and the criminal proceedings have been suspended. How come I don't get a prosecutor like you to drop the criminal case against me, too? Now, Mrs. Hope, I'll let you know. It has nothing to do with Dragoljub Stankovic, it has to do with me. The charges were Veljko Odalovic, Milutin Mrkonjic, Zoran Angelkovic, Aleksandar Vukic. Is there a criminal case against them? You've brought a charge against me. I still don't have that scribe to sign me up, so you know. Send him, I want the procedure, I want all of this brought to court, so the public in Serbia understands where the crime is. Why did I give you Micunov the other day? I call upon all citizens to give me documentation for abuse of official office, from Djelic and beyond. That's how I ended up with Dinkic. I've been calling from this booth for a month, two and a half thousand materials have come. When he saw what had happened, they all shuddered. I call on citizens to engage in the fight against crime and each one to act on the orders of Boris Tadic and to preserve, defend his post. Judge, you're defending the workplace. Madam Minister, you have Pusica, Pavlica, Nebojsa Pavlovic, lawyer, lawyer Djordjevic, not to order everything, there is no need. Check out Dragoljub Stankovic, deputy war crimes prosecutor. Check out his career, his family, what they were doing, how young they say today, what cases he was in, and who, when he was on duty, set everyone free. During Sabre, he, a poor man, ran away from being in triage because all criminals knew him. They would say, "Wait, how is this ours, when we have paid him a great number of objects. I am only presenting insinuations now, to check how much you will do on the order of Boris Tadic, given that I am informing you that this is the second checkpoint. You fell at the first checkpoint. Make sure you don't fall to the other and the third. I tell you openly, I want you to sink along with those you guard in the National Assembly. I've just mentioned some names to you, who's got criminal charges, indictments, to remind you that there's a procedure to be conducted against them, if it's against me. I can't wait for the procedure. I'm not calling for immunity, nothing, nothing, just to make a circus in the courtroom, so the people can see what a democratic government is. You listen to President Tadic. Of the 500,000 employees, there's nothing. Defence of the workplace is a sacred task, so he said, take care. Why'd he give that "Divnik" three times? To make the citizens realize they have absolute protection while Tadic is the president of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9381	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Sheriff Hamzagic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9382	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, the amendment tabled by counterpart Sheriff Hamzagic refers to the establishment and arrangement of territory related to the Supreme Court in Novi Pazar, which should cover the territory of the Main Court in Novi Pazar, with the General Court in Tutin. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation of the proposed laws has not met with understanding and the citizens and the professional public do not accept such bill proposals, and it is a historic venture that does not make any sense, and neither is a standstill in the application of these laws. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the area covered by the amendment, Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, Nova Varoš, Čajetina, Prijepolje, Prijebo, Požega, Arile, Ivanica, it is an area far from the courts, especially villages, which are more than 50 miles away, even up to 100 kilometers away. It is not acceptable to expose citizens to these problems, and the court is an institution where citizens exercise more of their basic human and political rights. Therefore, there is no basis to reorganise existing courts. Judges and prosecutors have expressed this in a completely justified manner, and a large number of citizens are reporting to the SRS MPs and are asking that the SRS MPs strongly oppose this will, this hopelessness, this chaos that is being introduced into the Serbian judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, the Tutina area, Novi Pazar, Sjenica and Nova Varosha especially deserve to remain in the seats of these courts and that citizens can be in a position to get closer to them, that they do not have to be exposed to large, unnecessary material costs and waste of time on the road, going to court at a distance of up to 100 kilometers, and about 150. Chaetin and the entire Zlatibor district are very far away from the current courts, and if this law is passed, it will be two or three times as long a relationship for citizens to reach the court. In these courts, citizens are used to exercising their rights. Judges and prosecutors who are now working in existing and organised courts should not be suspected. Someone says: In these smaller places they will be related, they will become acquainted, they will draw closer to the extent that justice cannot be measured. I was talking about it and I was just talking about it, Mr. Zutic, the MP of the SRS, that during Nemnjević, Obrenović, Karadjordje and Dusan there were both village courts, Nahi courts, parish courts, senior courts, appeals courts and, finally, a cassation court. It is not necessary to violate such regulated legal regulations and territorial representation and the organisation of courts and prosecutors. If you'll excuse me, I would take the opportunity, since Mrs. Malovic is here. I got the performance of a citizen from Cačka, his name is Krunic Miloje. He launched a litigation procedure in 1992, and the litigation procedure was conducted before this famous, now, righteous, efficient, cellifical, economical court in Kragujevac. Pay attention to who in Kragujevac shares justice and to whom they share justice. I ask these judges who have been tried, in case P9-5139/2, because this citizen has filed a lawsuit at the time and is asking for his claim to exercise his rights. The Kragujevac municipal court passed several first-degree rulings, which were suspended by the second-degree court, the District Court. What happened at last? This citizen cannot exercise his right, because his subject is lost. As this citizen, Mr. Krunic Miloje, from Cačka, the Loznička polje second, bb, says – the first verdict of 5139/92 since the first degree court, the municipal court, the second-degree ruling of the District Court in Kragujevac, Gž. 328/95, first degree verdict, again, because it was abolished, 2360/95, , goes on 272/97, the Kragujevac District Court, the prosecutor's proposal to repeat the procedure, the motioner's appeal, G's solution. No. 2074/08, again District Court, order of the Court to find the case, and final record, 05-46249, Municipality court in Kragujevac. It is not that we need to reorganise the courts now in order to achieve greater economicity and to make citizens come faster to justice, that we will have greater efficiency or integrity, that citizens will exercise their rights in time, no. If individuals had worked and the presidents of the courts were to exercise control and exercise, according to the Rules of Procedure, insight into the work of individual judges, this would not have happened in Kragujevac, in particular. Madam Minister, this citizen suggests in his performance that he also addressed the Ministry of Justice, that the Ministry of Justice had ordered the District and Municipal Court to carry out the appropriate procedure and act on the order of the Kragujevac District Court. However, as you can see, four or five judges have been amended in this case. Why do judges change in cases like this? Because one object can weigh up to 10 kilos of paper, and when a new judge is elected, it is placed in the hands of this complex object, which some judge has been unable to solve for 20 years. It's one of the nachos. No one should leave the court until they resolve their cases, or update them to the extent that they cannot remain as cases, which would be said in court – old bones and the most difficult cases, where judges could not decide for 10 years how to judge. The young judge comes and needs to execute, it takes him a year or two to examine the case, even if the verdict has been lifted, to carry out all the evidence submitted and proposed, thus delaying the proceedings. So something is only about discipline. Therefore, in EU countries and in Anglo-Saxon law, as well as in continental, parallel, when you see the organisation of courts, judges are responsible for certain actions or for their unhappiness. That is why there are long-standing laws on disciplinary responsibility in these countries, which is not the case with us. The only good measure is to introduce the disciplinary responsibility of legal holders, as the legislator and the one who chose them brings them into a situation that they have to behave responsibly in relation to each case and every citizen. You saw the reaction of the President of the Supreme Court yesterday, Mrs. Vide Shkero, that most judges and prosecutors against such hasty, to the speedily prepared seven laws, which should regulate the future work of courts and prosecutors. For this preparation and for this cut, this kind of radical change, we never did. We are radicals, we are for change, but to be in accordance with the Constitution, to be in accordance with the law, and to see in parallel the law that other countries regulated the organisation, work and functioning of the judicial authorities. So this, the coalition in power, is going to face a big problem, because these laws, I said last time, I took out the legions, you're delaying their application. Why? I repeat, you are not sure that these laws will be applicable. That's the problem. That was also the case with the Code of Criminal Procedure, two and a half years. That caucus proposal was adopted in this parliament and it has not been applied for two and a half years, nor can it be applied. Now, the Ministry of Justice, the Proposer, the Government, has seen, because we of the SRS, when the Code of Criminal Procedure was passed, have tabled a large number of amendments and pointed to a number of problems; the law is in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 78 members. This Code of Criminal Procedure, which was adopted before this Parliament, must be subject to a delay, or a delay, or the adoption of new amendments and additions to the existing one. This can only be solved by the fact that our radical criminal code, now these amendments and these amendments and these amendments, come before Parliament, that all MPs will examine them, analyse them, listen to the professional public, and in some ways enable them to, in the coming year, apply the amendments and the addition of that code, but that the approaches to the new criminal code, which needs a lot of time to be devoted. I repeat that in the countries of Anglo-Saxon law, as well as in the countries of continental law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code are being prepared for a full period of 10 to 15 years. We should not allow laws to be passed quickly. No number should be managed, as many as the Republic of Serbia will pass new laws. Secondly, pressures from the Council of Europe and the EU should not be succumbed to. Why? Some of them are running and they want us to go to Europe, but Europe won't. What do we do with that? They're not going to be taken by Europe. There's a problem. Why should any order from The Hague from any of the institutions of the Council of Europe now have to take urgent action, face the problem that this law will not be able to apply and that we will soon have to change a large number of laws in our country? It is not an effect in this, nor is it progress in having a large number of laws passed in a particular assembly of Parliament. It's important to make good laws. When a good law is passed and that law can be found, it means that the legislator was right and that such a bill has been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9383	The word is from Ambassador Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9384	I've only reported to the Rules of Procedure in order to reduce time, so I don't have time for the amendment, because it can take longer. I received a letter from the Faculty of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia, and it is likely that other MPs, whose contents are about this - believe that the bill is not good and that citizens will not be able to exercise their rights in an adequate and timely manner in court. It is said that the municipality court in Kursumlia covers the territory of the municipality of Kursumli, which is one of the three largest municipalities in Serbia, as it extends to 950 square kilometers, in a 100km radius, and borders with the administrative line of KIM, over 103km. This court, back a few years ago, has an average of seven to eight thousand cases in work and there are more than 100 years. Of course, by establishing the basic court in Prokuplje, a court is created to cover the areas of the municipalities of Prokuplje, Kursumlija, Blace, Merošin, Žitoraj, in the area of about two and a half thousand square kilometers, and the area will be over 130 square kilometers and will extend from the river of South Morava, to the very administrative line, etc. So, I'm looking for an answer to the question, we haven't received it since the beginning of this debate, we'll probably get it at the end of the debate – what criteria have you run to make this decision, to suggest this? But please, when you answer this question, make some kind of comparison, like the Borski County case, where you have four municipalities and two basic courts. If I wanted you in my presentation, when we talked about it, to save you a little bit, so to say that the configuration of territory, the inaccessibility of certain terrains, etc., was a criterion, possibly, to put two basic courts in the Borska district, which I support, of course, is better than being one, which criteria were then here, the number of inhabitants? Well, the number of inhabitants is higher in this area than in the Borski district. Compare that to South Baba County. So you're just using normal comparisons, the criteria you used for different environments, and you'll see that there are no criteria, and if there are, you'll have to explain them to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9385	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 4th Amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this bill really requires some answers, not just the silence of the minister and a number of colleagues from the ruling coalition. We are currently on the 60th amendment, which means that we have warned you at least 100 times and asked you to withdraw this bill from the procedure, because it is obvious that it is a general position, not only in this Parliament, but in all of Serbia. When he spoke earlier, he said he was withdrawing the amendment to Article 4. A bill relating to the High Court area of Kosovo Mitrovica, I then, fully consciously, asked to talk about the amendment, although I do know that when the amendment withdraws, there is no purpose anymore. But I spoke on Friday and I will remind you today of the question – what was the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? And, Madam Minister, you have not answered that question, and you will have to answer. What was the intention of the Republic of Serbia when you wanted to lift the courts in KIM territory in this proposal? What was behind that? You've probably been careful enough, so you've accepted this amendment, but we're interested, how could we possibly have a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to remove the courts in the KIM territory? Does this have anything to do with some points about the deployment of the Eulex that's being announced for tomorrow, which the National Assembly doesn't know anything about? Do you, as a representative of the government, since the President of Parliament has persistently refused to answer that question, do you know whether this parliament will discuss KIM? Will someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia come to explain to the MPs what the conditions under which you accept the deployment of Eulex? Who are you asking, do you have the authority of the Serbian Parliament for such a thing? You, therefore, were in this law to abolish courts both in Gracanica and in Gorazdevec, and in Ranilug, and in Strpc, and it remained only in Kosovo Mitrovica. You accepted that amendment, the first one, but it's not enough just to say - I accept the amendment on behalf of the government, but you have to say that on behalf of the government you could deliver such a criminal proposal, because what the government was proposing when it comes to kiM and Serbs living on KIM is indeed a crime. When it comes to, in general, this law and the amendments that we are talking about, I will again, every time I tell you, since the Government has no hearing about the views of the MPs, it is obvious that I am calling on fellow Members of Parliament who have submitted amendments to this law to appeal to the conscience of the MPs. Because if you go out here and you say you're trying to stay in the courts where you come from, does that just mean that you here want to tell your fellow citizens that you're fighting for the rights of those who sent you to Parliament, and in voting day you're going to vote for this law?- I'm sorry. If so, then citizens should know that their people's representatives cheat on them, because citizens don't see which button is pressed in the voting day. They should show in voting day to advocate the attitudes of their fellow citizens they represent here. If that were the case, then this law would certainly not have a parliamentary majority, because, besides the opposition MPs, the amendments were tolerated, I might forget someone, not to get angry, but, let's say, counterpart Zoran Kasalovic, Djordje Milicevic, Vlatko Ratkovic, Sasa Dujovic, Sinisa Stamenkovic, Dragi Damjanovic. So if everyone here said there must be courts in their municipalities left behind, then that means, Madam Minister, that the law will not be and that we here for five, six, seven days, as far as we're talking about these amendments, literally, we're wasting our time. If that is not the case, if the law is passed, then all these MPs deceive their voters. An amendment similar to the amendment I submitted was submitted by counterpart Sheriff Hamzagic. I don't mind him not being here today to explain this amendment, surely a man celebrates with his family and I to him and his family and to everyone who celebrates Kurban today, but I am convinced, too, that fellow Sheriff Hamzagic, MP of the G17 Plus party, will fulfill the promise he made and which he daily repeats to the citizens of Tutina. I am in contact with a large number of citizens from Tutina, precisely because I am here explaining the need for Tutina to remain and the Court of Violations and the Basic Court, and all these people are telling me that they have a promise and colleagues from Hamzagic that he will vote against this law unless this amendment is accepted. You, Madam Minister, and the other day, on Saturday, I guess you came to a television show with a bunch of statistics, you tried to explain that this is a meaningful bill and that when it applies, this law will bring benefits to the citizens of Serbia, that no one will travel a mile further than it has traveled so far and that it will have no negative repercussions on the citizens of Serbia. Mrs. Malovic, you have tried so hard to explain this, that even the manager had no patience to listen to you, so she said: please leave the statistics, answer the questions that are being asked in public every day. Of course, you have no answer to these questions, and it is amazing that your tenacity to remain on this proposal is rather than withdrawing it and making a serious proposal, which will really make sense. What you call judicial reform will be chaos in the judiciary, on the one hand. On the other hand, this will have negative consequences for Serbian citizens in an attempt to exercise their rights. Today, a colleague, Krasic, told you, of course, in a distinctive, ironic way, about how Boris Tadic tells you that all employees are keeping their jobs. I don't know if you've heard him and how you allow, by applying this law, at least 500 judges to remain without a job and much more than that for people employed in the judiciary, jurors, experts, to reduce the ability of lawyers to work? So, you should take care, especially in this economic crisis and social misery, in which, Mrs. Malovic, you and your colleagues have brought Serbia. Then at least you could make sure you don't stop and push us deeper and further into ruin. You claimed here, too, when it comes to the Tutin Court, as well as in other places where we had amendments, that it was a completely justified solution. I've spoken twice, since, in fact, this law applies to judges for violations, and basic courts, and several courts and prosecutors, so we have so many times to talk about our amendments, and I've provided a lot of information regarding the City Court in Tutin and the fact that you should never shut down this court. And it is said here that the amendment is not accepted for reasons for which the amendment of Milice Radovic was not accepted. You have no reason in this argument to apply to the municipality of Tutin and to the Municipal Court in Tutin. Actually, you don't have it for any court. This is what you came up with, or someone came up with this argument a little longer, so you thought we wouldn't have the patience to read it. You explained to us that you cannot accept an amendment that provides for 138 courts, because it predicts 138 courts. It's really not an explanation for little children, let alone serious people. Among other things, you said that for the education of the basic court they took criteria of geographical distance and development of the travel network. I asked you twice and asked you three times – were you ever in Tutina, Mrs Malović, were you in the villages around Tutina, and do you know how far these villages are from Tutina, do you know what the road network is, do you know how far Tutina and Novi Pazar are, do you know how long it takes to cross that distance? The distance is not large – 35 kilometers, but those 35 kilometers, Mrs Malovic, and even your luxury minister's limo wouldn't be able to cross in an hour. So, you don't take care of what the interests of citizens are. I told you that you will personally be responsible for what, by this law, will surely lead to the eviction of Tutina 0.3% of citizens. When I said that, I was thinking about the judges, because one of those judges is going to get a job, but no one guarantees they're going to get everybody; I was thinking about people who work at the courthouse, I was thinking about people who work at all in court, at the Court of Infractions. This number will certainly be bigger, because no one has mentioned the question of jurors so far. Will anyone from Tutina be a jury in the Court of New Markets and, if they will, how will he leave there, in what way will he participate in the work? Will the Tutin witches be engaged in the Court of Justice in New Market? Is someone in New Market going to hire a Tucino artist to come to the market, or is he going to hire someone he already has on the list in New Market? Who will bear the increased costs of lawyers, because if a lawyer who lives and works in Tutina is involved, there is an office, if the party hires him to represent him in Novi Pazar, in addition to regular legal expenses, who will bear the travel expenses of that lawyer from Tutina to Novi Pazar? So there are many reasons, Mrs. Malovic, here, just because of this amendment, to withdraw this law, and these are all 109-110, how many amendments you have not accepted. The question of buildings, or objects where the courts will work. You in the New Market must build a new court building if you apply this law. What are you going to do with a building that sized in Tutin? Since you said you were in Tutin, you saw, if you were, that there was a big building there, but a tunnel, which doesn't concern you. You're the one who made some funds to change the windows there. Now I don't know, and a little bit of what you're investing in, what you're investing in and who you're investing in, if you're planning to shut down that court? Since time is up, in the next report on the City Court in Tutin, I'll give you more details. Since I cannot convince you, I call on the MPs who have submitted amendments to this law to be consistent, to respect their constituents and not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9387	National MP Suleyman Spaho wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9388	Article 226. I have to talk to you and the authorities, just to tell you that I got a notice from the citizens of Loznica that there was a huge fire in Loznica, which included the Viskoza factory i.e. ‘Silva’. You need to know that, because I know what's in the factory, which is gas; they're afraid of the citizens of Loznica being some kind of disaster. They expect assistance from all fire departments and services that are trained to put out that fire, from Valjev, Capca, so I'd like to hear as soon as possible what it is, to get a notice from the authorities. The citizens are rightly frightened because they know that only one part of CS2, i.e. gas, affecting the citizens negatively, and I assume that all competent organizations, especially in Podrinj, should regulate this fire as soon as possible. I'm afraid it's not too late. Knowing that Viskoza possessed this gas that is harmful to the citizens, and on several occasions it happened at a time when Viskoza was working, I am now trying in all ways, and because of the citizens of Loznica, and in my personal name, to get a notice of what is happening and how much is the fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9389	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9390	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have been discussing amendments to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors for the fifth day. You, Mrs. Malovic, have had the opportunity to hear very many amendments regarding some courts that will be abolished. That's where the opposition MPs and MPs from this side of the hall came in. I'll just remind you that we from the SVM have submitted a few amendments and we've talked about these amendments. The essence of these amendments is that there is a misdemeanor in Backo Topoli, the primary court to be preserved in Backo Topoli, as well as in Sainta and Vienna. We've presented more arguments in favour of the survival of these courts. Of course, I don't want to repeat those arguments. I said there are several groups of these arguments, there are historical arguments, there are geographical arguments, there are also arguments regarding the official use of the language of national minorities in court proceedings, and there are certain sociological reasons for the preservation of these courts. We also said that we are not contesting the whole concept of reorganisation of the network of courts and public prosecutors, and we have said several times that we believe that we have submitted only those amendments that we consider not to disturb the whole system. As examples, I have cited, for example, a court in Kanjiza, or a court in Ada, or a court in Temerin, in respect of which we have not submitted amendments, because we felt that, by submitting amendments to the preservation of these current municipal courts, you could conclude that we did not respect the entire system of reorganisation of the network of courts that made the Ministry of Justice. We didn't want that. On the other hand, we believe that the survival of these courts does not disrupt the entire system and that there are many arguments that support the survival of these courts. A few days ago, my colleague Laszlo Varga gave you a piece of a map. I'm sure you have that part of that map. I still hope that at the end of this debate, in a few days, we will be able to bring together that part that you're guarding and this little larger part, which is with us, and that there will be no gap left on the map of the AP Vojvodina, which you, unfortunately, in the Ministry of Justice, have planned in the judicial map of the AP Vojvodina. Of course, there are such holes in other areas of the Republic of Serbia. I just said for those reasons, a few days ago, it's not realistic to expect only the SVM amendments to be adopted. It would not be realistic, however, if we, as part of the ruling coalition, conditioned the support of this law by adopting our amendments and to say – as far as the other areas of the Republic of Serbia are concerned, let the MPs manage as they wish. I say also from this place, we advocate that our amendments be accepted regarding Vojvodina, that this hole that is provided for in the judicial map, or in the judicial network of the AP Vojvodina be gone. Also, to accept some amendments to the opposition and to make the holes disappear from other areas of the Republic of Serbia, possibly. I also want to say this again, I don't think it would be a disaster for the Republic of Serbia to not have 34 basic courts since 1 January 2010, but for example, 42. This solution would not question the reform of the entire system of courts, as there are now 138 municipal courts in Serbia. You plan to survive 34 such a court. I don't think it would be a disaster if they stayed 42, or 43 courts. I think that we have arguments for this and by accepting these amendments of ours and some other amendments to the opposition, that law would be much, much better and certainly be adopted by a large majority of MPs. I want to say a few more things. You, Mrs. Malovic, said the citizens wouldn't have to travel. We never claimed that citizens would have to travel, but we claimed something else. We know how things work in Serbia and today. Some institutions can be abolished in a second. I said, now I want to repeat, it's much easier to lift the judicial units than the courts. We're afraid of the next thing. In five or ten years, you may not be the minister at that time, there may be another ruling majority in the National Assembly, but there is a reasonable doubt, so to speak, or the possibility, that the next government, or one of the next governments, in five or 10 years, will propose amendments and additions to this law and that in these amendments and additions, the following - be abolished. That's one real problem. That is why we propose not to question the entire system of reform and rationalisation of the network of courts, but to preserve still some more courts, those courts for which there are arguments for their preservation. It is not the same if there will be a judicial unit in one place or there will be a court. We are committed to surviving courts, not judicial units, where there are historical, geographical, sociological and all other reasons. We could hear an argument from the ruling majority that these courts should be abolished because in small towns, in small courts, Belgrade's lawyers cannot win disputes. It's a very dangerous sentence. I could also tell you who it is, if you insist, Mrs. Malovic, I'll tell you who said it from this place. There will be an opportunity for the next days, and I need to leave something for the next days, because this debate will continue. I can bring up the stenographic notes, but that's not my point. I am merely saying, responsiblely, that one MP, otherwise a ruling majority lawyer, told you that Belgrade's lawyers cannot, and I said that the Belgraden, has been granted disputes in small towns, because there is a connection between judges and citizens, parties in the dispute, in these small towns. That's gotta be the way it is. The problem is whether we represent the interests of Belgrade's lawyers, or whether we represent the interests of Serbian citizens, as well as these citizens. You know, all lawyers are citizens, but not all citizens are lawyers. We should represent the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially citizens from the territory of those municipalities and cities whose courts are being abolished. I'd like to read a few sentences from the SO Vienna recommendation, as of 21 November 2008, to see that what we're talking about is not only our arguments, but also the arguments of citizens and local leaders of certain local self-governments. Last week I read passages from the session of So Back Topola. We also talked about the Santa Court. We haven't talked about Vienna yet. I will now read a few sentences from SO Vienna, adopted on 21 November 2008. "SO Becay expresses his most energetic disagreement with such a proposal that would leave this municipality without a municipal court, as the only state institution that gives and paints the importance of the Becej municipality, its pride and importance as a future regional, tourist, school and business centre. "These recommendations also mention that the independence of the Vienna judiciary has been measured for centuries, by the rule of Mary Teresa, etc., and the historical arguments I will skip, but it goes on like this: "In the past, and in the present, but we are convinced, and in the future, one of the criteria of the importance and strength of the power of one environment, local self-government, the municipality, will be left with the fact whether it has its own court or not. "We agree deeply with this finding and we called this group of arguments a sociological group of arguments. It is said that Vienna is a multinational environment, with about 41,000 inhabitants, but the area of the basic court in Vienna, which we have proposed, would have more than 100,000 inhabitants, with these other municipalities that would belong to this area. These recommendations further discuss the required tasks of ensuring the equality of the letter of national communities in its territory and say that, out of a total of 9 judges, the municipal court in Vienna has the right, only one judge knows the Hungarian language, and he retires next year. That's a dangerous thing, because you, Mrs. Malovic, have claimed, not you, but the Ministry of Justice, that those courts where there are few judges will be abolished, but I would not agree that the court where there is 9 judges is considered a small court. As a result, we believe that, among other things, the basic court in Vienna should survive, not as a judicial unit of the bulky Court of Justice in Novi Sad, but as an independent court. It is also said in these recommendations that, instead of leading a policy of decentralisation, raising the importance of local self-government, by restoring their unlawfully seized property, all attributes that would make these municipalities a significant centre, city and municipality in the future. This is contrary to declared programmes that seek European values, but this is already a policy. In this address, I wanted to point out those arguments that were professionally founded, about the arguments that speak of the whole judiciary's interest that the courts in Vienna, Backo Topoli and Senti have survived as basic courts since 1 January 2010. We are still hoping that it is possible for these amendments to be accepted, again, to be accepted and some amendments from the opposition and that you, as the Ministry of Justice, allow the MPs to vote in favour of a draft law which is professionally founded and which is not contrary to the interests of those citizens, which we, whether we come from opposition parties or from parties that make up the ruling majority, are represented in the National Assembly. This debate will certainly take at least two more days, I still hope you can accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9391	The word is from Ambassador Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am reporting on the amendments tabled by fellow MPs: Lasslo Varga, Pastor Balint, Kovac Elvira and Fremond Arpad to the 4th member of the Bill's proposal, where it is proposed that paragraph 15 be changed, so that it reads: 'Higher Court in Novi Sad, for the territories of the General Court in Novi Sad and the General Court in Vienna', and to change the 23rd point, which should read: 'Higher Court in Subotica, for the area of the General Court in Bačka Topoli, the General Court in Senta and the Court of Justice in Subotica'. I must say that the SRS supports this amendment on the proposal for this law, supports all other amendments, especially the amendments submitted by representative minorities, because we all know that the areas where national minority representatives are dominantly living – areas with certain specificities, and if they need to be yielded somewhere, then it should certainly be done in those areas. I must admit that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has in one way employed this assembly and the MPs, to discuss, here, I don't know how much time these laws are, until they iron out the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Since they finally managed to calm down in some way, dying, maybe even calming Dinkic, and, for God's sake, maybe, someone else, because we know there are spare players, sitting on the bench, dying to step into the game, now that budget proposal travels to the National Assembly and to the MPs. As soon as the terms of the budget come to this room, before the MPs, if this session does not end with these laws, I believe, it will be terminated, because the budget is, of course, more important. It is the most important budget for one country, but the budget is the basic law, which is passed every year, and I guess every government and every citizen of this country knows that the budget should be passed within the prescribed time limit, except under certain elemental disasters, emergency conditions, etc. When this session is interrupted to begin the debate on the budget, the question arises – what we have been doing these weeks, or two weeks, as long as it will already be then, and the point is that we have made a front of the government until it finishes its work, with which it is unjustly late. Perhaps the goal of this government or this assembly was to promote and some MPs of the ruling majority from some smaller places, who for the first time reported to the assembly speaker for this law and, I must admit, they were doing so with law, at least when it comes to the law they're talking about. Let me get back to the essence of this law. It repeats the same story from this pay phone about all these laws and only changes the names of geographical places, changes the names of laws, the names of MPs, and everything else is the same. And on another amendment, I said, I will now repeat -- if, by any chance, the Rules of Procedure allowed a united debate on amendments, when it comes to this law that we are currently discussing, we could possibly talk about all the amendments at once, because the essence comes down to the same thing. Where is the efficiency of this House's work? We see that the effectiveness of the work is not the fault of the opposition, or MPs of the opposition, as it wants to appear in public, but, here, specifically, in the case of this law, it is the government, because the essence of these laws is to fill this empty time until the draft budget is brought into line. In a football dictionary, it is said to stand on the ball for a little while, until the budget comes before the Messengers of the people. For God's sake, weren't you surprised that this number of amendments would be submitted to these laws?- I'm sorry. It is simply not possible to imagine a Member of the government, or an MP from the opposition, especially from smaller places where courts are abolished, without writing, or, worst of all, not to support an amendment to the bill relating to the abolition of the court, the basic or any other, in the place from which it comes. Therefore, when it comes to this law, I would not like to be in the skin of some MPs of the ruling majority. Since Mrs Malovic is present here, Minister, I would like to give her one question, or one suggestion. Mrs. Malovic, indeed, once again, from this pay phone, I express my admiration for your tenacity to attend the National Assembly sessions. But I must tell you that I have received a verified notice that there is a terrible pressure on the District Court in Nis to make a positive decision on a complaint filed by former SRS MPs, DS MPs and MPs of the G17 Plus party, those who represented the opposition in SO Alexinac, that one legitimate decision, which was made in SO Alexinac, which was taken away from the mandates of former SRS MPs, is changed. I'd like you to take this seriously and look into this case. I sincerely hope, given how they've dealt with this and similar cases of Judge of the District Court in Nis so far, and that these are honorable judges, that they won't succumb to the pressures, but when this ruling majority and this constitution of things are at stake, I'm not sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9393	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9394	I would still go back to this amendment. This amendment, in practice, follows something proposed earlier, which refers to Article 3. This is, in particular, an amendment covering: the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, the Supreme Court in Subotica and the corresponding amendments. I don't want to go into the details of what's changing, but it's interesting what he's doing here. It conducts that the people who wrote the amendments, the MPs, managed with some principle, whatever the motive for submitting amendments to the MPs was a promise, a conversation, respecting the situation in the place where they came from, which is, above all, a reflection of local patriotism. Similarly, perhaps in a slightly different way, it was also present with MPs who were in opposition. But essentially, these amendments are based, however, on some principle that can be said to be quite objective, unlike the bill, where we find it difficult to find that the principle is consistently applied. Of course, it creates this situation to require amendments to edit, settle and improve. The ballint said nicely, he's probably involved in some hypothetical situation over a few years, what could happen. It doesn't have to be in a few years. I'm telling you this law won't live, because this law simply doesn't accept time, territory, people who need to enforce this law. This is an impossible mission, which needs to satisfy current political interests, not to talk about KIM, to delay the issue of the Vojvodina Statute a little longer. God has sent this financial crisis to Tadic and his regime, because it is some new excuse to make things go away. There are no radical changes in our society, only we return to something called the party state again. I'm just surprised, given that yesterday in Subotica was the DS's Chief Board, Pastor, you could organize people, the municipality's leadership, to get to Subotica, because Mr. Tadic was doing something there, like Tito was doing. Tito gave a speech in Split, Boris gave a speech yesterday in Subotica. Tito sent a letter, everybody was shaking. A few days ago, Boris sent a letter. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: no one was shaking.) How is no one? Kristo screamed. This is how it is done in Serbia, from plowing to plowing, from five years old to five years old, Brionic pleum, speech in Split, speech in Subotica, Tito's letter. So, gentlemen MPs, citizens, judges, prosecutors, the only address where it can end properly is Boris Tadic. You talk persistently – Mrs. Malovic here represents, well, she insists. Why? Because it's within some strategy and there's, like, some cover for that kind of perseverance. The wrong strategy, but the money you give from abroad. Money wasn't given from abroad to make good, it was money to be bad. We know that. It's just like that cheese in the mouse, he's always free to get caught. We don't have that budget projection for 2009. But we don't even have final budget accounts in seven or eight years. The question is – how can a 2009 budget be made when we do not know what happened in 2005, 2006, 2007, etc. That I don't order? It is the kind of primitive that prevailed in Serbia, prosaclud, non-civilisation behaviour, trampling on everything, not only democratic fluids, but trampling on constitutionality and legality. But unfortunately, it is as a success in Serbia. So someone, instead of pulling out the negatives, pulls out the pluses. It's all the other way around and the tubes are put in. So I'm saying, this bill of law and these trends that go -- you have to keep the job, it's a warrant. I see, some have come to understand here, entered as MPs and kept their jobs. According to Tadic, there are 20 of them, guarding the workplace, they don't care about the Constitution and the law. So, both citizens, and judges, and prosecutors, regardless of the Constitution and the law, you can keep your job, you have an example in the National Assembly. It's a twist. Tadic's speech had no place for the Constitution, law, disciplinary responsibility. No, it's a priority to keep a job. He didn't mean those 500,000 jobs that weren't open, that they were kept safe. No, he meant existing jobs. As for those 500,000 jobs, it was only during the election campaign. After that, that doesn't apply. You see, out of such a brutal lie, someone is benefiting, right now, and driving away, and Serbia is getting smaller and smaller. It's that danger when some win. When some win, Serbia loses. It's a very simple story. There were speeches about everything and everything, but I get the impression that Bozidar Djelic was working on this law, although in some places I see that there is some sort of rematch of him, what Verica was saying about Tutin, etc. Djelic boasted that he had passed through the end. You remember, he went into jokes. When he wanted to show how big an expert he was, he stopped at some field service car, pulled out his laptop and said to the peasant, "You know what, I'm going to calculate over your laptop how many sheep you have here. You've got so much and so much. The peasant says, "Well, how are you so smart?" He said, "I add up all my legs, then I divide by four, and you have so many sheep." The peasant says, "Your uncle honors you. Choose one, so make sure you have guests in Belgrade." He grabs it, puts it in the trunk and goes, and the uncle chases and says, "Give me back the charlain, you're wrong! "They are experts who wrote this law, such experts, who don't know what a charlain is or what a sheep is. He's the one who drove the movie that he's so smart. Money came from abroad, a strategy was made, he was going to write the law – he wrote the law. So all of these amendments, all of these exhibitions -- on Boris Tadic's desk, because he's the only one who can pull.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9395	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The amendment with the correction together was submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Slobodan Maras. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9396	I would like to congratulate Kurban on all citizens celebrating the Islamic holiday. The LDP has also submitted this amendment to Article 4 of the proposed law, because it is the logical consequence of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 3. As there is a logic between the first and second amendments, there is logic by the proposings, who also rejected this amendment, as well as the refusal of the amendment to Article 3. So, as far as logic goes, that would be fine. However, we now have six courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina taking over 26 municipal courts from the same territory. What does that mean? This means that we cannot observe this law completely apart from the other laws in this set of judicial laws that this assembly has discussed and will discuss further. That means that, instead of 26 municipal courts, six so-called judges will now be tried. higher courts. Let's leave the whole demagogue story behind the established network of courts in Serbia's territory. In fact, we should focus on the fact that in the jurisdiction of municipal courts they remain, according to a new legal proposal, cases and as far as the case is concerned, and as far as the guilt is concerned, it is of minor importance. The litigation courts will judge cases which are of less value, and the criminal courts will judge cases in which a lesser, or less severe sentence is threatened. Therefore, all those "significant" cases, as regards audit values for litigation cases, or stricter penalties for criminal cases, go to the jurisdiction of senior courts, and then we come to that result – that, instead of 26 municipal courts that have so far tried cases that are in the domain of the audit value of a case or a slightly more severe sentence, as far as the blame goes, it puts a burden on six courts. Just now, a fellow MP once again mentioned that black hole that appears in the territory of the AP Vojvodina as far as the network is concerned. By reducing the number of higher courts to six in the territory of this province, that hole is even wider than that hole that's scheduled for a network of basic courts, because instead of eight, we've had a court in Vrsac and a court in Kikinda, I'm talking about basic courts, we don't have that anymore here either. So, literally, the courts concentrated in the border areas, with the exception of, say, Zrenjanin and Pancheva. So 26 courts tried, were quite burdened in Vojvodina, and, of course, they had big problems respecting some deadlines regarding trial and decision-making. Now we transfer all that burden to, literally, six courts. Perhaps the problem could be solved if there is indeed a real will to complete the reform of the judiciary with this set of laws. We would believe that if these laws were followed by at least two other laws, which are – the law on public records and the law on enforcement proceedings, which would remove at least enforcement of court decisions from the jurisdiction of the basic courts, or former municipal courts. So, we would relieve the courts, future basic courts, if these laws were to come into effect. This would do one good thing and perhaps partially cancel these consequences that can be expected under the law on a network of courts. The Law on Notes is very important, because it would significantly reduce the jurisdiction of the basic courts, so it would also disburse those judicial units, which will be established instead of the earlier municipal courts, in places where municipal courts are abolished. Perhaps, then, part of the discussion we have heard here would become groundless, and it would significantly improve the availability of courts, i.e. justice, citizens, or institutional solution to their problems, as far as these issues are concerned. So, the reform of the judiciary cannot be exhausted by this set of laws, we cannot stop there, we cannot stop halfway, by passing laws, by voting and delaying their application, and perhaps never by applying them. We cannot stop ourselves from working on new laws, which would have to complement the proposed solutions and improve the expected results. Therefore, when we talk about the Vojvodina courts, the gaps in particular stressed that the full argumentation of the LDP, as regards these solutions to the network of courts, also refers to courts throughout Serbia's territory. Because as much as the Dukes have the need for one real approach to justice and court, so do all the citizens of this country. Therefore, we remain in a position to support this law on the network of courts, because of certain bad solutions that will most likely have serious consequences for the network and the organisation of courts in Serbia's territory. However, we appeal to the ruling coalition to continue reforming the judiciary, so that we can finally come up with some solution that will be in Serbia's best interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9397	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think all MPs, as well as citizens of Serbia who are following this transmission, have seen one scheme, one pattern and one fraud. This is how it was when we adopted the budget, and it will be now that we adopt the budget, so when we adopt this law and all the laws relating to individual institutions and individual units on the ground throughout Serbia. What's this about? MPs are forced to submit amendments to certain areas from which they come, where the electoral body is, or in some other way, bound by certain territory and, of course, the amendments are rejected, and when it is voted on by law in general, MPs from the ruling coalition who have submitted amendments, fiercely defend them, will vote for the law in general, will not vote for their amendments, because, since it is 126, or 128 MPs, the thin majority, the law cannot go any other way. Therefore, it will be an order. I think it is high time to stop this manipulation of the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, the interests of the citizens of Serbia, and if this law were there, if the minister were there, I would suggest it again, withdraw it, return to work. And when we had 138 municipal courts, the courts couldn't achieve everything and they piled up in certain courts cases, for several years they weren't solved. Once we bring this down to 34 basic courts, 34 basic prosecutions, several district courts, only then will there be real chaos in the judiciary. Looks like someone's responsible for making a mess in the judiciary, making a mess in all institutions, but now we're talking about the judiciary, which is why I'm potentialting this, so I guess it's going to be easier to manipulate. After all, 34 presidents of the court are easier to take under their own, control than 138, which is probably why this law is passed. We will have a situation here so that judges do not judge by law, in particular, by the Law on Local Self-Government, but by the kind of dispatch they get from the city's assembly and the Serbian presidency, or from one of the ministries, depending on which color the ministry is colored. People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Fremond Arpad have submitted an amendment, counting on trying to improve the situation that will arise when this law comes into force and when it begins to apply. Reason - Amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendment of MP Radović Milice to Article 4. Speaking of the names of MP Radovic Milice, I suggest that we accept that amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Radovic Milica, so that all other amendments can be withdrawn. The only thing that can be done is to leave a network like this. The only thing that can be done is for the Ministry to go through the courts, so let the judges who don't do their jobs, who don't do their jobs properly, change their jobs, get rid of them. This is how chaos will begin and the objects that are now beginning to arrive, only before our entry into the European Union, in 2025, will be resolved. Speaking of problems that Serbian citizens are suffering, I'm only going to say one example, because an hour ago I received a delegation from a privatised company. And privatisation in all of Serbia is such, all that has so far been robbed, pardoned, privatised, that there are no special differences between privatisation in Alexinac, Nis, Vranja, Subotica, Smederjevska Palanca or Sremska Mitrovica. In fact, a group of shareholders from Mitrovica from Sremska Mitrovica came by. To remind you, Mitros was a company of world rank, their products were exported in huge quantities to the United States and to all of Europe, and when privatisation was done, the company was sold for 32 or 33 million, with the obligation to make some debts, some claims by customers, suppliers, workers, fulfilled, but the supplies of finished products, semi-products, were so much that they could cover the entire debt. auction privatisation; on the day of privatisation – 913 employees, today there are about 120 employees. That's what it is -- let's keep our jobs, according to DS President Boris Tadic. We need to keep our jobs. Why don't you look after them since 2000, when you got here? Why, through privatisation, was it not a basic condition for you to keep your jobs, to keep the interests of those who, in the end of the line, created them? "Svilion", Rodoljub Draskovic, bought "Mitros" and did not pay off, and he was bound by contract, paid to employees for 2004 and 2005, so now that small shareholders organized, when they began seeking their rights, the property of former Mitrosa sales so-called. "daughters" concerts, their companies from other parts, so that for small money, or without money, the entire hall is transferred to other companies, although 30% of the property is owned by small shareholders. Now you're gonna ask me where this relationship is with what I was talking about. The deputy prosecutor was, they wanted to file a criminal charges, they went down with their shoulders, not because the deputy prosecutor in Sremska Mitrovica didn't know how to do his job, but because in all the other cities where the privatisation was done, where the robbery was committed, where the property was taken, and where the coalition that leads us to a brighter future leads us to Europe, I say, in 2025; in 2026, we'll probably get to Europe, and even when we get there, we'll all go, so we'll all be alone again. The Deputy Attorney General has come down with his shoulders. People asked me what to do. I told them - write down the criminal report, submit, and deliver the documentation, so our MPs, the MPs of the SRS in the Privatisation Committee, will raise this issue, regardless of who the chairman of the committee is and whether the president will take such a position or such an attitude; we will raise the question and drive it out to cleanliness, of course, we will also hire the public. Workers are only asking for back-up payments and that a company that was once the pride of the local industry and Serbia-Yugoslavia is not incinerated as Alajbeg's straw.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9399	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Drago Damnjanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill provides for the establishment of a High Court in Smederev, and that court would be responsible for the area of the Smederev General Court. With the previous amendment, which I submitted to Article 3 of the Law, I suggested that, in addition to the basic court in Smederev, there would be a Court of Justice in the Great Plan. In the event that the amendment is accepted, the Supreme Court in Smederev would be responsible for the basic courts in Smederev and the Great Plan, which I propose by this amendment. I would take this opportunity to remind myself once again of the facts that, in my opinion, discredit this bill, and not just this proposal, but some more of the set of judicial laws. First of all, I mean the bill of judges. Here is the basic question – will the adoption of this bill create conditions for Serbian citizens to have the opportunity to exercise certain rights before judicial institutions in a faster and more efficient way? I don't think so. A few questions are being asked, and now I'm going to try to answer some of them. Will the procedure, from suing, to judgment, to the execution of those judgments, in the event of the adoption of this law, be simpler and faster? In my opinion, he won't. It'll be more complicated. Instead of one court, in one building, as was the case so far, when it comes to first-degree proceedings, now a number of trials, not all, will take place not only in different courts, in the basic court and in one of the judicial departments, not only in different buildings, but often in different settlements, in the seat of the basic court and the seat of the court department. Will the organisation of the justice system be simpler? In my opinion, he won't. Instead of in one place, in the seat of the court, as was the case so far, one judge will now have to judge in several courts, in several populated places, practically, in all the places where there are judicial departments of the basic court. In the district from which I come, it is the Podunavski district, the judges will act in three courts – in the Great Plan, in Smederjevska Palanca and in Smederev, and here we have heard that there are basic courts that will cover the area of five, six, and seven municipalities, such as the Pcinj County case, which was spoken of by fellow Stevanović. One judge from Smederev will be tried in Smederev, Smederjevska Palanca, Great Plana. Judges from the Great Plan – Smederev and Smederjevska Palanca, judges from Smederjevska Palanka – in Smederev and Velika Plana. According to the proposal for a law on judges, it can theoretically happen that the judge in those three courts has in the same day. Let's say, in the Great Plan, at eight o'clock, in Smederev, at 9.30, at the Smederjev Palace, at 11 o'clock. The question arises – how will the transportation of the judge from one to the next, from the other to the third place be organised? How will the trial schedule be made? You will have an absurd situation that at the same time the two judges from the Great Plan are travelling to Smedereva to hold the hearing, and at the same time, two or three judges from Smederev to the Great Plan are traveling in the same direction because of the same job. I think it is needlessly more complicated, which in some ways will slow the work of the judicial authorities in Serbia. As one of the arguments that led to such a solution, when I was already on this trip as judges from place to place, my colleague Pastor also said that this would reduce the degree of corruption, that judgments would be fairer and more based on the law. I think it's completely the other way around. Most court trials in one place, in front of a local court, are conducted between natural and legal persons from the village. Let's say, let's take the Smeder case. I think the judge from Smederev, who's running a lawsuit between two of his fellow citizens, will bring a fairer verdict than the judge from the Great Plan, or from Leskovec, or somewhere else. If he is in a dilemma, if he can judge on one side or on the other, he will weigh more, because they are people with whom he lives, who are daily lucky in his city; he will be much more careful than the judge who comes from another place. He's not gonna take so much care of these little things, he's gonna pass judgment on automation after an hour of getting in the car and going to the place of his life. The question arises – will this burden of the judge help them to make fairer and more lawful judgments? In my opinion, he won't. Imagine a judge who has two difficult hearings, say, in Smederjevska Palanca, then has an appointment for a hearing in Smederev. It takes an hour to drive. You know the condition on our roads, there could be snow, there could be traffic accident, in any case, it would affect his psychophysical condition, it would be tiring at him. I'm convinced he won't be able to, when he comes to the hearing in Smederevo, to look at all the elements that matter to the verdict. Another question arises – is this reorganisation of the network of courts proposed because it will ensure that our judiciary is cheaper? The answer is no. The trials will be more expensive. I was just talking about the judges traveling from one place to another. We have three options of how to travel. First chance they get to travel by buses. I don't think the judges will agree to travel by bus, that guarantees a delay in most hearings. Secondly, you have inhabited areas within the area covered by a basic court where you have one or two bus lines per day. I also don't think the judges will agree to travel from court to court, from court to court, to court, to court, to their cars. There's still a third chance for the court to secure transport. That means, since they don't have all the places in the airport, they won't travel by plane, they'll have to travel by cars, and those cars have to be provided by the court. So, every basic court, it seems to me that 34 basic courts have been proposed, will have to provide a rolling stock. If he has six-seven departments, he must have at least six-seven cars. Those cars, somebody's got to drive. So, you should further hire 2, 3, 5 or 6 drivers; 34 courts, five drivers – 180 newly employed in the judiciary. The next question – will the judiciary be more effective? When you consider all these facts, especially the time that will be wasted on the journey from one place to another, from one place to another, it is clear that there will be no. This number of 4,000 unsolved, outdated items can only be increased. I don't think there's a theoretical chance that it'll shrink. As far as citizens are concerned, citizens will, as so far, mainly end all these proceedings before the court in their place of life. The resident of the Great Plane will finish most of the work in the Great Plan. However, there is one number of jobs that will have to end in Smederev. This will further complicate these court proceedings and burden the citizens, due to the separation of time and for financial reasons. Finally, it is concluded that there may be some higher national or national interest, so this reorganisation of courts is proposed. Obviously, that interest doesn't exist. There is no legitimate political interest either, because if there were, there could never be such a consensus between the ruling parties' MPs and the opposition parties' MPs. More than 100 MPs have been discussed here so far, and everyone talks about this law as a very bad bill. In Serbia, in the last 20 years, there has been a trend in population migration from smaller towns, interiors, provinces, according to major cities, according to Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Krusevec. I believe it is the duty of the state to stop this trend with all means available. One way is for the state to fight for the preservation of existing institutions and, if there is room, for the establishment of new institutions. You're doing the exact opposite here. If in one place you remove an institution that exists for 100 years, if people in that environment have no harm in the existence of that institution and have some benefit, then the abolition of such an institution is not a good message to the citizens. Since I come from the Great Plan, I'm going to use the remaining five minutes to, for once again, quickly report some information on the size of the Great Plane court's affairs over the past two years. It's probably the last chance. In 2007, there were 14,652 cases in all matter in the municipal court of the Great Plan. If we divide it by the total number of working days, we get 59 items per day, or 8 objects per working hour. This is 1,462 subjects per judge per year, i.e. 6 cases per day per judge. Judges don't have time to raise their heads at the present court organisation, and how can they do that in a situation where one trial will be held at the Smederjev Palace, one in the Great Plan?- I'm sorry. I know the Justice Department will try to find some solution to judge in one day, say, from Smederev, all trials in the Great Plan. It'll be possible to make some sort of schedule in the first five or six months until the items build up. However, when complaints are started, etc., the second, third hearing, simply, will no longer be possible to keep under control. In the first nine months of this year, the Court of Justice in the Great Plan received 5,409 items, or more than 20 cases a day. If only working days count, they're 23 new items a day. In the first nine months of this year, 10 judges in the Great Plan have handled 11 026 cases, which is 58 cases per day, or 6 cases per judge. I repeat, this is only in case every judge, according to one case, has one hearing each year. You know it's an ideal that doesn't exist. I'm going to say one more piece of information about the work of the law enforcement authority last year, 2007. This body in the Great Plan has 8,461 objects in action, which is 705 subjects per month, or 32 items per day. In the first nine months of this year, there were 6,198 items in the work of the Violent Crimes Authority, which is about 32 items per working day. All MPs of the ruling coalition and the opposition that have spoken so far are about unanimous in the view that the bill is bad. For this reason, I once again propose to the minister of justice and the ruling coalition that this law be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9401	On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9402	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, when amendments to party MPs in power come, it is a treat for opposition MPs. It's an ideal opportunity to praise the MPs of the government. I'm taking the opportunity to commend Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. Only one amendment was adopted by him, and two were not adopted by him. Mr. Ratkovic, this is what these of yours did. As far as radicals are concerned, we would have adopted all three amendments, without thinking, but when a MP, specifically, of the ZES, of the DS, proposes an amendment to the bill proposed by his party, then that's where we have to open our eyes and let the public know that something is wrong with the DS. Yesterday was an ideal opportunity, in Subotica, to act uninstitutionally on the President of the Republic, in that casual sports variant, and to show him how important these two amendments are to the article. Three and four. The bill also has to be adopted. Why would the Democratic Party write an amendment and why would the DS refuse to amend its MP? I don't know what this is about. There's probably some serious ideological differences. Some things I know, Ratkovic is a lawyer, probably better known than Konstantinovic or Srdjan Milivojevic, or this "Resist" variant that rules in the DS. They're the ones who fought over the couple while they were in the Resistance, they were fighting, they were doing things. Of course, they don't understand that thing. Vladko knows it much better and he has really made a good amendment, concerning the Supreme Court in Sremska Mitrovica, and this amendment follows his amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. The amendment is really good. It would be a sin to criticize that amendment. However, I am puzzled by this situation when an MP submits an amendment. Be assured the opposition MPs will support that amendment, but then we will have an abnormal situation. Lawmakers will vote against the amendment, and Vlatko will likely vote against it. Now the question arises – when was he sincere, when he submitted the amendment, or when he voted on his amendment? I know the man had the best intentions, because he came from justice, the lawyer man, he's in court every day, he's talking to judges, prosecutors, he's complaining about what specific problems are, and I think you could use his knowledge and do something that's plus, not get over it. It's a really interesting situation. I'm not in his skin. The next option is possible. We had that variant a few months ago. The SRS did not vote for one amendment, one man got angry, left all functions, so after a few days we learned that he was no longer a member of the party, but you kept him here, Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic and that other company, to continue to guard the post of MP. With his bright example, President Tadic shed light on it, and he came to the conclusion that it was up to the paisers to protect their jobs and that this was the main task in 2009. So, Vlatko, maybe you're next. I can't believe you're that other checkpoint. Just so you know what it means - a checkpoint. When a big athletic rally is organized and expects a world record to fall in some discipline, then a good team of runners are created and said – Abu Abu will be the winner, he will break the world record, but they will give Dabu and did it to be rabbits. Then we have didi for the first round, which should pull the crowd, and then we have Dad pulling the second round, to achieve an even better time, to make Abu Abu, at the end of the fifth round, a new world record. Then it's written "the supernatural possibilities of man," "the man won the time," the sponsors come forward. So there's a rally in Zurich, Paris, that I don't order any further; it's a shame he's not president of the Athletic Union here, he could explain it better. We got these rabbits. We had our first checkpoint, because that was the first rabbit. Ratkovic, they were planning on you being the other one. Tadic said yesterday that there are four checkpoints. Whoever survives that fourth, he'll be a minister. I wouldn't laugh at the promises of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic and the President of the DS, when he says something, it happens, and don't be unserious. We're waiting for 500,000 new jobs. He said – 500 thousand new jobs, we wait. However, a meteor struck, the global financial crisis, it is delayed for the next stage, when the 17th time the President of the Republic, like Tito, is a lifetime. No, that's right. Tito in Split, Boris in Subotica. Tito's letter, Boris' letter. Do you know how many people died because of Titus's letter? Not guilty or indemnity. And for Boris' sake, just Kristo, for starters. This amendment is good. However, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, given that you are working intensively, not you, immediately understand, one group is working intensively on making a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I think the example with Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic is taught for future writers of the Rules of Procedure. Please inform Bosko Ristic, as he is now justifiably absent. What's this about? I suggest that the amendments be delivered encrypted, encrypted, like when it comes to public procurement. When the MP delivers the amendment, he will have two envelopes. In one envelope will be the text of the amendment and at the end of the password. In the second envelope there will be an interpretation of the code. Why? It's not abu-dabu. Just to see the reasons why Vlatka Ratkovic's amendment was rejected. I'm sorry, I'm chasing these things, I'm getting in the way and I'm aware of it, but I just can't get rid of it, and I don't get angry with people, because they know I'm making a mistake. The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendment of MP Radovic Milice. Milica Radovic is a member of the DSS and is an MP here. The motives, the basics, the principles used by Milica and Vlatko are the same and therefore the legislator, the Government, refused; she did not want to go into details, but stated that the reasons were the same as Milica Radovic's. The renegade part of the DS in power refuses to amend DSS MPs, for the same reasons why DS MPs are rejected, but not only within democratic parties, it is the same reason for the SRS amendments, G17 plus, New Serbia and not to order further. They, from the point of view of the amendment, put you in this group that will be outvoted, but they also count on your voice, Vlatko, that you will outvote yourself. It is therefore necessary that amendments, encrypted amendments, be authenticed, so that no one knows which group belongs to the MP who submitted the amendment. It's the only way we can extract the objective position of the legislator, in this case, Government. However, we also have exceptions – Konstantinovic and Srdjan Milivojevic's amendments, they were accepted, but they are'retors'. They're the Resistance. If I had been in a position in 2000, by chance, to give some money to the Resistance, to posters, to these things, I wouldn't have been charged. That's what the D.A. said. However, I financed the scientific works. That's the problem. No DS with science. There's no dots. If it were encrypted, with the code, it is possible that, Vlatko, your amendment would be accepted and become an integral part of the bill. But with your amendment, you looked like an opposition, and they said no. I have to work for the audience, the public, to say, someone will say, well, what does that have to do with the court's organisation, where there'll be a higher court, where won't? Well, there is. Do you know what he's got it for? That's why they made this bill. That's all. We don't have basics and more courts in the existing system. These places cannot be attended by existing judges from municipal and county courts. It's got to be a new choice. The new election will be unencrypted, but it will be with clear messages of who it belongs to. Look at how it's done. There'll be judges on public procurement. It's the next law we have on the agenda. The judges will be subject to public procurement. They'll have to have the right color. Just to remind you that in that documentation I gave you, with some data, that some suspect there is some crime in that construction directorate of the Republic of Serbia, you could read that Director Grujic has now painted the office. She's yellow-blue. The yellow-blue color is not the color of the SRS. I don't know whose it is. Encrypted amendments, enveloped amendments, and need some objective commission to be created within the government, which will open, to record the opening of amendments without having insight into the cipher. So we can come up with something called an objective approach to the amendments and concept of the law. I apologize to Vlatka Ratkovic for using this amendment and its name for something. I didn't mean to joke. I'm serious. I told you to figure out which way it's headed for a new party state. Instead of a Split speech, it could be a Saturday speech. Instead of Titus's letter, we'll have Boris' letter. You know what's going on. I warned you in time, and you, Madam Minister, if you think there is any basis, regardless of your tenacity in representing these views, if you think there are some arguments to be accepted, I would ask you to inform Boris Tadic and tell him that he is pulling this off.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9403	Thank you. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9404	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, my amendment reads: "The Supreme Court of Subotica, for the Area of the Basic Court in Backo Topoli and the Basic Court in Subotica", and follows from the previous amendment, which I submitted to Article 3 of our Law and in which I asked for the establishment of a basic court in Backo Topoli, for the territory of the municipalities of Ada, Mali Ijoš, Backo Topola and Senta. Just enough to get him out of this. I said what I meant and why I meant it. I'm getting more convinced, after all this exposure, that this amendment of mine has you as its basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9405	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Paunović-Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting not only to support the amendment submitted by MP Radovanovic to article 4, but also to say that I am in favour of all the amendments we have heard in these weeks from this pay phone. The draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is a law that changes the existing organisational structure of courts and prosecutors. This bill is not real. It does not respect the reality of the state of Serbia and its citizens, so the MPs, the majority of the opposition, but also from the position, as we have seen, members of the national minorities, have submitted 122 amendments, of which 37 to Article 3, which envisions 138 municipal courts being reorganised to 34 basic courts, which will have their own judicial units. Article 4 provides that, instead of district courts, there are 26 higher courts and 18 amendments have been submitted to this article. There are numerous arguments and reasons against such a complete concept of abolishing courts. The arguments of reality, such as tradition, discretion, number of cases, distance, territorial layout of the population and the need to provide protection of human rights and interests through courts, to make the court available to the citizen and to effectively exercise judicial authority, the legislator did not take into account at all. The aim was to reform the judiciary, what such, but at all costs. The SRS cannot support such a illogical and absolutely bad law, and in some members it is anti-constitutional. If you have no other solution, Madam Minister, withdraw this law while it's still time. But if this law comes to life, as far as possible, you will see which objections, complaints, complaints and difficulties to have citizens in achieving justice, in the fact that the court has to be accessible to a citizen, so that he can exercise one's right to protect one's right. In this bill, there is no reliable evidence that every citizen, on an equal basis, is given access. The state of Serbia should show more understanding for municipalities in which national minorities live. The government must meet these demands and show that it is the state of all its citizens and that it takes special care of national minorities. The MPs have made serious remarks and are asking the Ministry of Justice to take seriously the importance of these objections. Whether you adopt this amendment, or not, like the other amendments, I don't know, but I'm sure you won't, because you have your own way when it comes to the network of courts. They repeat once again the facts concerning this law. Dear Serbian citizens, this is the bill, which has 19 members, to whom 122 amendments have already been tabled at the beginning. The Serbian government adopted only 13 amendments, and 109 refused. This says that no MP in this respected home is satisfied with the way the government of the Republic of Serbia thinks it handles the network of courts. The concept of a network of courts in Serbia is very dangerous and nationalally very harmful. Once again, I stress that there was no reason for the names of municipal and district courts to be abolished and the names to be given – basic and higher courts. Am I right, me and most MPs, time will show, but SRS MPs warn in time that this law is not good for both Serbian citizens and the complete justice system in Serbia. If Serbia claims to be a legal state, then it must respect the constitution and the laws. The abolition of the existing status of the Municipal Court in Backo Topoli, the loss of current independence in the process of rationalising the Vojvodina network, has no legal basis, no social justification. These general criteria of the Ministry, such as territorial and geographical areas, the proximity of major traffic, the multinational population, its numerousity, as well as the specificity of this municipality, the work and conduct of judicial proceedings in several languages, the number and complexity of cases in processing, as well as the tradition – 150 years of existence and the continuous work of the Court of Justice in Bačka Topoli, guarantees the legal basis that this court should not be abolished, i.e. that it should survive, because it is certainly in the interest of all citizens of Backa Topola. The ministry should clearly state the reasons, but the SRS thinks it's not rational at all. To me, as well as to many MPs, there is no clear concept that the legislator, or Ministry, had in mind when he referred this bill to the Assembly. If the objective is to rationalise the network of courts and abolish costs, it will certainly not be achieved by this law. The question arises, if you abolish courts in the middle with national minorities, where will you find judges, court interpreters who will be trained to hold a secure court dispute in the languages of national minorities? The involvement of adequate court interpreters can sometimes be so difficult that you will force the parties themselves to give up using their native language. The result is dangerous, which is that members of national minorities will waver from using their native tongue. They will be prevented from using their rights, which are, among other things, guaranteed by the Constitution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9407	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Sasa Dujovic and Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does he want a word? Mrs. Radeta? Mrs. Radeta, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that what we predicted was happening and what I was talking about on Friday and this morning. Indeed, there is a legitimate concern that the MPs who have submitted the amendments are not ready to further explain them, let alone show in the voting day that they insist on these amendments. I insist on this, precisely, because I want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia, especially to the citizens of the places where the amendments are concerned, how their representatives from those places deceive them, because if someone in the place where he came from in this parliament promises their fellow citizens that they will insist on the seat of the municipal court, that is, the basic court, the court of law, is then the least expected of such a national representative to further explain his position here, to transfer the position of his fellow citizens and to insist with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the government representative, that the amendment be accepted. If not accepted by a government official, then it insists that the assembly majority do so in the voting day. I repeat, if all the MPs were honest when they proposed these amendments, it would be logical for them to vote in the voting day, to vote in favour of their amendments, to vote against the law if their amendments were not accepted and to show them to those who chose them that their promises were made to citizens seriously and that they were responsible people. Because if you submit an amendment just to send a message from this place, that your voters think that you represent them exactly the way they expect you to, then it's not enough, because it's so bad talking about this bill, and as much as it doesn't feel right for someone to hear those facts and that truth, it really is facts. All of Serbia is engaged these days, the whole legal profession and the legal public are dealing with this problem, and everyone is convinced that, if this law were to be applied on 1 January 2010, there would be chaos in the judiciary, that Serbian citizens would be damaged by the adoption of this law, in order to lead to a new number of unemployed from the circle of judges and public prosecutors, even more in the work of employees in the judicial administration and other people who are employed as auxiliary staff within the current courts. That would lead to most likely moving most of the people involved in law enforcement to the county headquarters. This, of course, has to do with everything, just not even regional development and decentralisation. The ruling majority and the Serbian government seem to have seen decentralisation only as the possibility of returning municipal property to municipalities, so that their municipality presidents would sell out sooner, as they sold out at the level of the Republic, and how citizens in these municipalities would obviously not be interested in anyone in the ruling majority. That is why we Serbian radicals insist and talk about every amendment, firstly, to convince our fellow MPs to be truly people of words and to vote against this law because they do not accept amendments, and on the other hand, we want to show the citizens of Serbia that we are truly consistent in the SRS and that we are truly fighting for the rights of citizens, we are not talking, as you can see, only for local patriotic reasons, but we are talking about all amendments and we are insisting on protecting the interests of all Serbian citizens. The amendment of counterparts Sasa Dujovic and Djorđa Milicevic of the SPS-JS Group refers to the area of the Greater Court in Uzic. The proposal for a law, Article 4(1) of point 24, states that the Supreme Court in Užica is organised for the territory of the General Court in Požega, the Court of Fundamental Court in Prijepo and the Court of First Instance in Užica. The colleagues who submitted the amendment proposed that the Supreme Court in Užica be organised for the area of the General Court in Požega, the General Court in Priboj, the Court of Fundamental Court in Prijepo and the General Court in Užica, which is an absolutely good solution and this amendment should be accepted. The difference between the draft law and the amendment is that the amendment provides for the Supreme Court in Užica to also be provided for the General Court in Priboj, which is related to that amendment to Article 3, that it is necessary to remain in Priboj the basic court, what is now the municipal court. Of course, there was not much trouble in the government over these amendments. They've made one explanation why they don't accept the amendment and it's prescribed, as in this case. And this amendment is not accepted for the same reason as not accepted by counterpart Milice Radovic of the DSS. I recall that counterpart Radovic suggested that the existing network of courts remain and, given the government's intention and the obvious lack of desire to adopt at least some amendments, it is obvious that this solution from the amendment would be the happiest, fairest and that the citizens of Serbia, as well as all the employees of the judiciary, would benefit most from that. Why does the government say they don't accept this amendment? Among other things, he says, "Article 3. The bill stipulates that there are judicial units in all municipalities in which municipal courts existed. These judicial units will carry out trials and any other affairs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which will allow citizens, as so far, to have full access to the court. "It is not disputed that this law also leaves the citizens with access to court, but the question – what court and how far is this court far from where these people live? "On the other hand, the proposed network of basic courts will allow a much larger number of courts to act in cases. "If 500 judges will be fired, or if they will be released, and then that implies, in the case of judges, getting fired, Madam Minister, I don't know what it meant to you and what it means to you that more judges will act in cases, if there will be 500 judges in Serbia less than they are today? You continue to say, "Because judges are elected for court, not the judicial unit, which will achieve more objective court work and unification of court practice, as well as avoid the influence of local environments on the work of judges. "First, the first part of this sentence, where you say this will contribute to the unification of judicial practice, is in collegiate with the laws we have already discussed. You have already laid down the law on judges who are going to form a caselaw, which we certainly are, but I am telling you that this is completely pointless and I draw attention once again, by who knows which way, to be more serious in dealing with the MPs because, as you can see, we follow everything you say and everything you write. This is completely contrary to what you told us the other day and what's actually left in the proposal of one of the sets, as you like to say, of these judicial laws. You say, "as well as avoid the influence of the local environment on the work of judges." That's what I've been talking about, and believe me, I've heard from a lot of judges in these smaller areas, and they're grateful that in this way we're trying to protect their honor and reputation, because what you said -- that judges in smaller places are more prone to corruption -- is something that, first of all, has nothing to do with reality, and secondly, it's an insult to a large number of honorable and honest judges and public prosecutors, who are doing their job in accordance with the law. You know, if someone lives and works in a small environment and if you think that only the fact that everyone there knows him leads them to corruption, does that mean that you claim that in Belgrade, which is a large environment, all judges are solving cases under the grains of all their acquaintances and friends and that they are subject to corruption, because both judges and prosecutors in Belgrade have a certain circle of people they know? Following your logic, you are thus assessing that we should import some judges who do not know anyone in Serbia and who no one in Serbia knows, because that would then end corruption and crime in the judiciary. We Serbian radicals tell you that corruption in the judiciary will cease the moment when you from the government stop calling on judges and public prosecutors and order them to make decisions, whose criminal charges to leave in the drawer, whose desk they put on and start doing the same, when they stop doing the tycoons, and when you, as a government, say you are guaranteed to judges and public prosecutors, that you will protect them from the influence of tycoons and all those who want to influence them. You can't say that, unfortunately, for the simple reason that you in the government do the same. I hope, when I say -- you in the government, don't think I think of you personally, because I have to admit that I haven't heard of you yet. As soon as I hear it, I'll say it, of course; for now, it's gone. Further, in this explanation, you said that, when determining the number of basic courts and the area of their jurisdiction, besides the inflow of cases, it was taken into account, among other things, that in every city in the administrative district of the Republic of Serbia at least one basic court. Now I'm asking you, you've predicted here basic courts in Požega, Prepolje and Užica. The pleasures have the status of the city and there is fulfilled what you wrote in the explanation, why you do not accept this amendment. Požega and Prijepolje don't have the status of the city, they're local self-government. It's also a local self-government. My question to you, Madam Minister - on what basis did you, for example, define yourself between Pryboj and Prijepolje for Prepolje, or, between Pryboj and Požega, define yourself as Požega? For days, we insist that you tell us some tangible reason, something that everyone can understand. You have no answer to that question and it is obvious that for this reason you are not responding to the comments of the MPs. Since it's been 15 minutes, there'll be more chances. Once again, the call, I apologize for the time, Government - withdraw this bill. If you do not, call for colleagues who have submitted amendments, vote against the proposal, vote for your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9409	Thank you. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a vice president, Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9410	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, we remain fully in line with the arguments we have given in previous statements on this proposal for a law on a network of courts and on our amendments. The amendment was also rejected, arguing that the amendment tabled on the proposal for a network of courts for basic courts was rejected. Therefore, unless an amendment for basic courts has been adopted, this amendment with regard to higher courts cannot also be adopted. I'd just like to add data to the duke's courts that I cited less than an hour ago, with the situation here being such that from the existing number of municipal courts, I'm talking about municipal courts in the territory of Serbia, without the territory of Vojvodina, so, of 110 courts, now the number of courts that are going to be tried in the cases of audit value and in criminal cases that predict some harsher penalties, comes down to a total of 20 higher courts. So with 110 courts, jurisdiction comes down to 20 higher courts. That's five times the number of courts that will solve some serious litigation and criminal cases. This law cannot be seen without the other laws in this set of judicial laws. However, even if it is put into context, it can be seen what is the reduction in the number of courts that will now be available to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If there are few six higher courts for the entire territory of Vojvodina, there are so few and 20 courts to judge the entire territory of Serbia, normally, I am speaking out of the context of Vojvodina again. Therefore, there are likely to be major problems over how to organise the job, with such a large number of courts reduced to five times in a year. There will be problems and technical issues, and I assume there will be problems around the judges. If, even, those judges withdraw from the territory of the courts that are being abolished, where units are being established or where the number of judges is literally being reduced, there are likely to be problems in organising the work of the judges themselves within these new higher courts. It is little time for a year to make such a serious cut, without completing a set of judicial laws, and I was just saying that at least two more laws are needed to complete the issue of reform of the Serbian judiciary. Therefore, regardless of which party it is, or which party has submitted amendments to the draft law on the network of courts, it is obvious that each party has serious objections to this draft law. People who work in courts, and for God's sakes, and citizens who expect these courts to have a fair trial and a reasonable time, are upset. The very number of these amendments shows how much Serbia's fear of such a serious cut in the judiciary. If this fear is so great, the question arises, will the results expected to be the right measure of the hope of the legislator really achieve the goal towards which the entire reform of the judicial laws is directed? So, for now, we have a serious situation as far as the number of courts is concerned, as far as the number of judges is concerned, as far as the court is concerned. The question is, will we be able to implement the full reform of the judiciary with these bills, specifically, with this proposal for a network of courts? Knowing how we prepare the laws, how we implement them, and how we realize them, the future is indeed uncertain. About the first month, two days, we also voted the Personal Data Protection Act, which should soon come into effect, and today we can read in the paper that there are certain interferences, that there are certain problems regarding the Commissioner who should oversee one part of the implementation of the law. He's in trouble with the personnel, he's in trouble with the rooms. So, this law, which is very European, which is very progressive and advanced, will hardly be able to be realised by the deadline foreseen for realization. Therefore, these laws, whose application has been delayed for a year, should be expected to have future major problems with realisation itself. Then he asks the question, why do we always do ad hoc, why do we try so hard to fill in some statistics, and not prepare a little bit better that field with regard to law-making, the application of the law and the ability of this country to submit and present that reform, so that it can produce results?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9411	Thank you. National MP Dragan Stevanovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported on Mr Kenan Hajdarevic's amendment, because I believe it has something in common with the amendments that I have submitted to the text of this law, i.e. relating to the environments and municipalities that are multinational, i.e. have a certain, in different ways and in different ways, expressed multiethnicity. After several presentations this morning, especially after Mr Balint Pastor's presentation, it is concluded that the adoption of this law has been seriously questioned. I would like them to be principled and to meet what they have said, that the law will not be voted unless all amendments are accepted, that in the day of voting they will be declared by this principle and commitment. I'm also afraid of the facts, and I would hate to have you put on some indiscipline, so that, eventually, by the end of this debate, accept the amendments of those members, those representatives of the national minorities that will depend on the adoption of this law, which will decide whether or not the law will be adopted. Therefore, I would ask you to be both principled to the end and to determine yourself accordingly, or to take into account the fact and to accept amendments relating to the environments that are multinational, i.e. which are multiethnic. I come from one environment where Bulgarians, Roma and Serbs live. These people live down there in extremely harmonious relations, but it is expressed concern that both communities will be deprived of what you call the availability of justice, or the fear that in the time ahead, they will be able to exercise their minority and human rights in the way they have done it so far. Now I'm not saying this exclusively from that local patriotic aspect, I'm saying anyway in the spirit of the party program that I belong to, which is that the rights of the national minorities, in any case, must be absolutely protected and intact. What else is interesting about taking the Balint Pastor out of this pay phone? These are reactions from local congregations and local parliaments to a whole set of laws, above all, to this law on the network of courts and public prosecutors. I came from a municipality where the local parliament, or assembly, mentioned it when I defended my amendment to Article 3, or tried to take a stand on the fact that you would abolish the Municipality court in Surdulica. There your party participates in power, even you have the president of the assembly. They invited us to the session, and the conclusion that we were to draw began this way – the Assembly of the Municipality of Surdulica objected to the proposed provisions of the draft law on seats and areas of courts etc. I said last time, of course, this is optional for you, but I think the aspect of this conclusion should be considered because it is a legitimate expression of the representatives of all citizens living and working downstairs. The conclusion is that such a legal solution has caused very negative reactions from all bodies of the municipality, as well as from the citizens of Surdulica, but for you, as a member or favourite of the DS, it may be important that this last sentence that says – from a political point of view, we believe that the abolition of the bodies mentioned here is done to the democratic processes that, after the last local elections, are in a great rise in Surdulica, in our municipality. They fell apart a few days ago. So much for their democratic processes and principles. It does not give for the right to the Government or, in this case, to you as the Government's representative here, or to propose this law, that in one negative way and in a negative context you influence the right and position of all the people living down there. Madam Minister, here I would also mention something that some of the representatives of the congregation's majority were saying, which is these problems of small environments, or provinces, or the tendency of judges to behave unprincipledly in a small environment, i.e. the willingness of the government, the local tycoon, the powerful, the oligarchy, to influence the judges. I agree that's what he's got. I think it's the wrong way you want to deal with it and these kind of deviating phenomena, but it's also supposed to be said next, which you haven't had a chance to hear. When someone in a small community is working as a judge, this environment where they live and work is much harder to define whether to take money or to be prone to crime and corruption, than what they will do in another small environment, in which, with this set of laws, you will create the possibility of sending it there and working there. It will be much easier to define it in another environment than in the middle it comes from. You can send someone to the moon, that I'm up there, will find a way and the possibility to take the money, or to define it for corruption. Corruption isn't about where it works and works, it's about nature, character and principles that a man carries with him, so he's going to take all his bad habits to whatever environment you send them to. If you had been prepared to provide for laws through legislation and to deal with such phenomena in Serbia's judiciary, you would have received more than two-thirds of the support of this parliament. I do not believe that there is an MP in Parliament who would not raise his hand to resolve a judge who is prone to crime and corruption. So, to defend, among other things, this legal solution, I think it's a failure, I think it's bad and it seems very unconvincing. I would mention something I forgot this morning when I was talking about the economic aspects of this bad law, which is next. For once in our lives, each of us was in court, if not for the other, to verify a contract. After all, we've all run for office now in previous elections, certified contracts, statements, resignations, etc. The fact that it is now not respected in Parliament and in courts, some courts, it is a matter to consider from another perspective. Madam Minister, each of us then filled out at least one payment card, next to that republican administrative fee; one payment card certainly referred to the municipality court in Surdulica, in Bosilegrad, in Vranj, no matter where. Now I'm asking you a question. When, since the application of this law, any of us goes to court, when he fills in that payment that has so far been made to the municipal court, what address will these funds be paid to now? To the basic court? But the basic court is no longer in Surdulica, the basic court is now in Vranj, the court is no longer in Bosilegrad. It would be irrational for it to be paid in a court seat in Bosilegrad, or a judicial unit, as it is already called. Then you will say, "Well, you know, those funds will flow into the basic court, and then the redistribution will be made into the budget, no matter where." Who will determine the criteria for how the funds will return to these small municipalities? We've got the law now, but obviously there's something wrong. Now look at this, it's not big funds, I agree with you, it's not big funds, but for economically endangered environments, every dinar is significant. In addition, you will deny the number of employees, salaries, taxes and contributions. No matter how much from the Belgrade point of view, in terms of this environment, urban environment or metropolis, it seems insignificant to you, to us in small areas, in the province, it's a lot and certainly it means a lot to us. This has not led you to write this law, and I therefore believe that it is absolutely against the principles of equal regional development and decentralisation in Serbia. I will do it again and again – Serbia has never been more centralised in financial terms, in terms of state administration, local self-government, and now, here, and in terms of the justice system. Drag the law out of the procedure, you can objectively come into a situation where the law does not pass, or, if you are willing to do so to the end, accept the rational and reasonable amendments of the opposition or representatives of the congregation's majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9413	Thank you. On Article 4, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Kasalovic and Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9414	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an amendment relating to the jurisdiction of the High Court in Chačka. It is proposed that the Supreme Court in Cačka be for the main court in Gornji Milanovac and the Court of Justice in Cačka. This is directly related to the amendment to Article 3, where a new point 34 is added. The amendment was discussed on Friday, proposing the establishment of a basic court in Gornji Milanovac. So it's about related and conditional amendments. What I made as arguments on Friday could certainly happen again now, although I have no intention of repeating the same story. In any event, when adopting a new network of courts, both basic and higher, it is necessary to take account of many criteria that are very important and of the criteria relating to history. Our state could mark two centuries of justice in that part of Serbia, in Gornji Milanovac, because in 1808 a mining magistrate was founded during Karadjordje. Also, in that historical part, the name of the princes of Milosh and the prince of Michael is significant. According to the number of inhabitants and the number of settlements – 63, it is certainly worth the attention of both amendments. I would also add that SPS and Unique Serbia MPs do not view the matter as black and white, nor are we in charge of the principle of blackmail when proposing amendments, but it is important that we have certain arguments, that we face, that we also estimate that what the government, or the relevant ministry, has its reasons. On the other hand, we need to weigh what comes from the field, what these local environments estimate, and then never in politics, I guess it's clear, can't take 'absolute victory', or to adopt the arguments of only one side, but have to find certain compromises, and in this whole structure, it means that one number of amendments should be adopted. It was in the first step done by the government, but I hope that this debate on amendments, which has been going on for several days, and it will take some of the amendments proposed by the MPs of the position, but also by the MPs of the opposition, will give some of their results in accepting them. That is how we of the SPS and of the Unity of Serbia hope that, based on such arguments, this and that amendment relating to the General Court in Gornji Milanovac, as well as some others relating to other environments, as mentioned here, can be accepted. When it comes to the higher courts, which this part of the law is now under consideration, it is noted, for example, that in the whole subordination, we often have such a scheme that a higher court is competent in relation to one basic court. There may have been room for a different subordination, not as some rule that stems from some logic, but, in any case, on the basis of certain criteria – space, population and number of cases, as well as what is the sovereignty of certain areas, it was possible to establish a different scheme, where, for example, we would have at least two basic courts in some cases under the authority of a higher court. Dear Madam Minister, once again, on behalf of the MEPs and the Unity of Serbia, I ask you to consider what this amendment requires and what the arguments on which it is based are, as well as what some other amendments, which in the same sense require the development of this judicial network in order to better function the judiciary in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9415	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. The People's MP Mirko Munjic also called.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9416	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from article 101. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since it is obvious that a colleague of mine had just thought about what I was saying, at least I understood so, about the applicants of the amendments from the ruling coalition. None of what I put out was malicious, but on purpose, of course, it was. I didn't expect to, nor did I intend to say that anyone from the ruling coalition should blackmail or bring down the government, it's the work of the opposition, it's not the work of parties who support the government, but it's about principles. First of all, it is the principled relationship between the MP to his constituents and the fact that it is you who voted for the government, who support the government, in an opportunity not to blackmail the government, but to be able to talk to the representatives of the government and that you can convince the government rather than the MPs of the opposition. If you all had the attitude that Mr Balint Pastor put forth, therefore, if you were all of you to be that principle and thus defend what is the position of your parties, what is the attitude of the citizens who sent you, as well as all of us, to this Parliament, then we would certainly come to the point that the Government, or the Government, would have to withdraw the proposal of this law, because it would hurt less than the fact that what we really expect happens, and that is that in the day of voting, this bill would not be passed. It is truly amazing that you are still here claiming to be all the reasons, which are arguments, which is why your amendment should be accepted, and then, instead of telling the citizens that you will insist on so far that you will not vote for the government's bill, you are telling the government – nothing you are afraid of, we will not blackmail you, we will not be so persistent, we are just talking here just to hear us citizens and to think that what we have written here, we mean seriously. We only invite you to take what you say seriously and act in harmony with what you say from this place.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9417	Thank you. The promoter has a replica, just wait a minute, please, Mr. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9418	Dear People's MPs, at least when it comes to MPs of the SPS, JS things are never seen in Parliament by the system – take either leave or black-and-white. So, as a parliamentary group, although we belong to the ruling majority, we are in principle in favour of accepting certain amendments, as well as amendments to the opposition, but it is never possible to do so fully. We cannot accept the debate in such a way, or observe it in such a way that something we propose will be adopted 100%, i.e. to adopt 100% of what the opposition proposes. It is a matter of political struggle in Parliament and arguments. Not even last time, when we were in opposition, we didn't equalize with other opposition parliamentary groups. We're also different from the opposition parties. We are also different from the parties that belong to the ruling party. So we have our own reason, we have our own arguments, we're polite, first of all. We have great respect for what is being brought here, on either side, of course, and on the side of the opposition, and at certain times we support it. My word was directed to appeal to what the promoter did and to get to the goal based on these arguments. Although you, Mr. Todorovic, can do well to tangle and interfere with the concentration of MPs, even mine, I am not angry with you, it is your style. That's right, it's your style and your way of parliamentary struggle. I may return not to you with the same measure, but in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9419	Mr. Lightning, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9420	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, when I last spoke of a single amendment, I said that on this set of laws on justice, and especially now, to this law on the seat of the courts, I had raised a large cloud of dust, which threatens to overshadow some crucial things, some essential things from this area, and these are – the law on the regulation of courts, then, the lustration of judges, the re-election of judges, or the re-election of judges, then, the High Council of Justice and some other things that are very important in this area. I remind you that the basic principles that apply in this area – the independence and independence of the judges, impartiality, continuity of the judicial function, etc. Without a particular explanation of what any of these principles would mean, we've been explaining it a lot lately, and that's really a lot of hearing, I'd like to say that some strange headlines have appeared today and these days in our daily press. Here, I would like to remind you of one of those headlines in today's press: "I start a silent rebellion of judges in Serbia". It's a very strong title, and I can tell you it's not for no reason. I'll remind you of one of the statements we've heard. The president of the Association of Judges Dragana Boljevic says – The Society of Judges will not participate in the re-election of judges because he is unconstitutional. Look out, that's what the president of the association, the Society of Judges says. It goes on to say – we will address both the Constitutional Court and the European Court in Strasbourg, so that the adoption of this law and re-election will be prevented. That is literally what the president of the Serbian Society of Judges says today. What do these statements mean, in fact, by the president of the Serbian Society of Judges? What future will our judiciary be? How will the judges judge, who will they protect? Is this, in fact, a message to the citizens of Serbia that, perhaps, they should join a party – that judges are impartial, that judges are independent, that they are independent? Really, you need to think about this. The next statement I would remind you of, to say the new statement, is a statement by Serbian Supreme Court President Vida Petrovic Shkero. She literally says, "This will represent a cleanup of judges. The general choice violates the principles and introduces unrest into the judiciary." President VSS says these laws bring unrest to the judiciary. In particular, it should be borne in mind that this statement by the president is the most judicial instance in the country, that this is a statement that has a special legal force and that this may be an invitation to a kind of boycott, or disobedience, in a way, by a judge. This re-emerges the basic principles – independence, independence, impartiality and continuity of the judicial function. Furthermore, I would also like to remind Mr. Secretary of State, who says, "It is true that re-election of judges cannot be a guarantee for the creation of good staff and that without quality criteria it will be a cleanup of judges." Right? "That's why we called society, in order to do our job as best as possible, but we'll do it without them." That's literally your statement. What does this statement mean now? I think this statement sent a clear message to all the judges in Serbia that there will be re-election, that there will be lustration and that there will be a cleanup of judges. The secretary of state in his statement and tells us – there will be a cleanup of judges. So, gentlemen, I think these MPs from the position that have tabled the amendments should also imagine these statements, especially over this last statement by the Secretary of State. It's as if this is a statement by a certain spokesman, saying that lustration will occur, that this re-election will take place, and a cleanup of judges. In the end, he literally says so – there will be a cleanup of judges. Right? That, perhaps, is also a message to the MPs of the position they have submitted to these amendments. It is clear that now there is expression and visibility, in a way, and the size of Mr Krasic's message from a moment ago – that certain amendments should be introduced under the code. However, I think this message came a little late, because it is known who has submitted and what he has endured. Serbian citizens of these MPs are expected to vote in favour of their amendments. There is neither black nor white, simply, citizens expect them to vote for their amendments, so I think they will do so and I hope that this statement from the predecessor just now goes that way. Because if you don't vote for your amendments, I don't see a soft word, it will be a kind of betrayal of Serbian citizens, a betrayal of citizens who expect you to vote for your amendments. You have submitted these amendments, people have heard and expected that for these amendments and vote, and clearly you have nowhere to go. I remind you, for this, remember the betrayal committed by Judas Iscariot. When he wanted to betray Jesus, this man, knowing of treason, offered him bread and salt, but he has already been a traitor for two millenniums. Think of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9421	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I'm setting a break by 3:00. [[After break, at 15.05]] According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9423	I'm reporting from an article. In 225 and 226, and I want to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia a question, but in the end, I will ask the question in the last sentence. Based on yesterday's statements, they are very current today, Mr. Dacic, for example, who said that we do not want to go back to the time of hyperinflation – mildly to us, to all Serbian citizens, the SPS will defend us from hyperinflation in the next period and that there can be no failure of the economy. I want to remind you all here that when we were almost two months ago as DSS MPs, we warned that the global economic crisis would affect Serbia, also called the populists, that we were told to spread panic, and some ministers in the government, even the vice-presidents of the government, said that this economic crisis would bypass Serbia. Now there's such a statement, which we never said, that it could even collapse the economy in 2009. Of course, we couldn't say it, because in the DSS they know their jobs, so if we were executives in the country, surely there wouldn't be a failure of the economy. Since you are in power, I am not surprised at the statement of the type, we will not be hungry, and we shall have what to wear, and there may be a failure of the economy. On the other hand, President Tadic says difficult days are ahead for Serbia and that the most important task is to defend jobs. It is the President of the Republic, but I must say that in political life again, he discovered hot water. I guess retaining existing jobs is something that is the minimum of every politician fighting for good in his country. I guess the increase in the number of employees is what needs to be done. What does it mean – defending jobs is the most important task? It is the most common statement, just populist, made on the basis of marketing surveys that say Serbian citizens are most afraid of losing their jobs. It is a new delusion in a number of deceptions issued by Boris Tadic, such as those of 200,000 jobs. Now, instead of 200,000 new jobs, we have the defense of existing jobs. So there's nothing from the promise that was – 200,000 jobs. (President: Time. ) Here is the last sentence, a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. What measures does the Government of the Republic of Serbia prepare for the defence of jobs, and how many of the new 200,000 jobs promised in the May 2008 campaign will they achieve in 2009? I expect that answer quickly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, within eight days, and I will ask the question every day until I get an answer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9424	I wanted to inform you that we'll be working longer than 18 hours, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and to ask the heads of Parliament that in 18 hours, the meeting will take place, we have one agreement regarding our activities, our business and our MPs, in the coming days. The Belief of Radeta, from the scene: "How long till tonight?" We'll also discuss it at the meeting. That's why I'm asking the heads of Parliament or their deputies to be at my office at 6:00, so we can make a deal. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9425	Serbian citizens should know, this is what we have now, this is the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, 884 sides. This should be read, probably, so that you can see what's not good, so you can write the amendment, if there's any need to write the amendment. It would be good if those amendments were converted, encrypted and anonymous. Based on this, there is a discussion to be conducted and then this should be the definition of life in the Republic of Serbia for 2009. It's not hard to conclude that whoever wrote this in a few days has some problems. Greater problems will be faced by one who can make sense of this, to write amendments, and most of the problems will be with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now let's start with this amendment to Article 5. It's a member of the business courts. Let me remind you, in 2001-2002, there was a serious discussion in this room when a law was passed that also regulated the organisation of courts and then there was a big dilemma whether it should still be called – economic courts, or trade. He has won – the merchants, and now those who have won, I say, have won, because we often have opportunities to hear from this left-hand side – whatever you will from the SRS, we have won. So, the winners won when the economic courts were renamed to trade and they won again now, because trade is back to business. So they're winning in all different ways. The problem is that Serbia is shrinking and all the Serbs are losing. What they lose, they win. A single amendment was written here. This amendment is with my name and last name. The public needs to know that the amendments are written by the Parliamentary Group, so it's shared with the MPs, so I've got this amendment. He is similar to Article 2, when such an amendment fell to Mr. Martinovic. Interesting thing, the government's response was quite solid on the rejection of both his and my amendment. However, only one small mistake has been stolen, not by the applicant of the amendment, but by the legislator. Now Martinovic interprets how it is possible to defend indefensible. The problem is not just a termological nature, whether the words "terteries and areas" represent synonyms for something. I need to draw attention to the fact that the people of the SRS Group who did this, they did it well, but the government made a mistake. The error was made in Article 1. It's a bill of law. Now let's see how that mistake later turns out to be wrong amendments, and the error is in the next one. Article 1 The bill reads: "This law establishes criminal, basic, higher, economic and appeals courts, determines their seats and areas of jurisdiction..."... So, the promoter in article one made a mistake and wrote "areas." These people who were making amendments to the SRS believed it was right, so they wrote on Article 5 an amendment asking for the word "terror" to be replaced by the word "area" in the corresponding decline. Then the government says - we do not accept this amendment, because the term 'area' determines the territory where there is already jurisdiction of a court, where in business courts, as first degree, it is more appropriate to use the word 'teries'. You're right, the rope's been watched. However, what is the constitutional basis for this law? This is Article 134. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This article speaks – establishment, organisation, composition, arrangement. When the word "area" is said, it's not just about territory, it's about jurisdiction. Therefore, from the wrong use of the word "area" in Article 1 of the Bill's proposal, there has been an amendment relating to this Article 5, where economic courts are concerned. If by any chance there were words in article one: "terrory", then it would have to be extended at 5. It's just to make you realize that someone doesn't conclude that there's a lot of stuff in the amendments. We have various groups of amendments, we have the best amendments, and these are the amendments – the member and that one is deleted. These are the best amendments, because they best show what kind of change is needed when it comes to the bill coming from this government. This means that nothing should be accepted, because everything proposed by this government will be ruined. The current situation will be ruined if such a law is passed. We can appreciate that on the basis of experience. Whom a snake bites, he's afraid of a lizard. We've been bit by snakes with DS, and we know that when they propose an epochal change, it's minus. So democracy also gave us this kind of primitive to vote from Bodrum and this prodigy to vote from Thessaloniki and to propose a labour law, on work, from 1848, when that minister was Putzvalc. We need to be careful and alert citizens when DS implements a reform – be careful. You heard it, it was primitive, it was "business courts," it was modern, it was "trade courts," plus for DS. He is now returning to business courts again, plus for the DS, just because he comes from their side and has quite the amount of media support, like the one we had last night when we replayed three times the same contribution to President Tadic's famous speech in Subotica. It is that the party was a success, we have seen all the party participants, and Sava Milosevic, etc., these are your members. As soon as they're in the front row, it means you're proud of them, taking pictures of them, etc. I don't mind, it's a purely internal matter, but I have a need and a duty to inform the citizens. Now we're going to trade into business, you'll see, in 2010, we're going back to the old, to the trade. That there's some difference between those two concepts, there's, it's not about synonyms, you know, but next time you're going to explain it to us. This amendment, from the point of view of what is written in Article 1 and from the point of view of the methodology you apply when it comes to, if I may say so, those first-degree courts, is not problematic. However, given that we have already spent several days considering this type of organisation of basic and higher courts and have tied it to a territory, I must draw your attention that you have forgotten several very important constitutional provisions. The judicial system in the Republic of Serbia must be unique. There's no way you can talk about different levels of court. Why? If you say there is a Republic, we don't know what these others are like. I must draw attention to the fact that the decisions of the courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia concerning local jurisdiction are not of such importance. Why? Because the decisions of the courts apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, if the court has brought the matter of jurisdiction, the verdict is valid throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Who guarantees respect for the enforcement of these decisions throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Who, specifically? Judicial power. If it cannot, then it is an executive power, because in the executive government there is something that most corresponds to the absolute authority with which the notion of sovereignty is equaled. I'm telling you this because of some provisions that I'm deliberately not going to draw attention to, so that you don't interpret that someone's raising the temperature right now. It concerns Kosovo and Metohija. In business courts, you have an Economic Court in Nis which is responsible for the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Remember that, business disputes. Remember, after this secret negotiation of yours, the opposite of the will and wishes of the MPs in the National Assembly, and quite a number of MPs, which certainly, if the results of the vote were taken into account, are here most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In new conditions, when you hugged Eulex like this, how will our decisions be implemented in the territory of KIM? Just to remind you that the Serbs in KIM will have three material legislations, three different systems that will apply to them. Is it in such conditions that we can discuss sovereignty and whether we can talk about Tadic, Jeremic, Bogdanovic, Sutanovac, Radajko, since he was in charge of KIM, you put him there for the sake of order in some public enterprise, but he led the very secret negotiations and talks because it was the logistics for the completion of these jobs? Take care. It's not enough just to be beautiful, smart, well-dressed, to smile nicely, to know how to cross hands, what hairstyle should be, whether it's in beard fashion, if it's not in beard fashion. The state is a serious thing, too serious a thing that the way you talk in Subotica can be run and kept. Remember one thing. You've taken over. You have to give the same amount of power to someone who comes after you. I purposely say - the same amount of government, I do not bind to territory, because you would start jumping immediately, but in a democratic world, which is certainly France, the presidents boast that at the end of the term, they preserved every inch they got when their mandate started. Take care. Keep an eye on what you're doing, because the state isn't a toy and the state isn't defending itself in the media. The state doesn't even destroy the media. Make sure you don't cross the line. A message to all citizens who follow this transmission and follow this transmission, because only here can you hear a large amount of truth about the life that is being led today and that will be tomorrow – defend your jobs. Feel free to call on Boris Tadic's sentence. He said, defending the workplace is sacred. Defence of the workplace has no alternative, as it used to be. As the Democrats have said, the EU has no alternative, regardless of what it takes away Kosovo, but has no alternative. The right word is – the job has no alternative. Judges, keep your jobs, that's what President Tadic told you. Prosecutors, keep your jobs, Boris Tadic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9426	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Milos Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9427	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Madam Minister, MP Zoran Nikolic, in front of the DSS, submitted an amendment to the headquarters of economic courts. In particular, in Article 5(2), the words "Bogatiæ, Vladimirci, Koceljeva, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Loznica and Šabac" are deleted and a new point 17 is added after point 16, which reads "A business court in Šapac, for the territory of the municipalities of Bogotić, Vladimirci, Koceljeva, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik and for the towns of Loznica and Šabac". The DSS believes that an analogy that you have already applied to basic courts should be applied, and that means that there are also economic courts in the district's headquarters, especially for large counties such as the Mačvan County, where we have six municipalities and two cities. When I say - two cities, I mean Loznica and Sabac, where there are a large number of economic operators and, in the interest of the normal business of these economic operators, I think that, first of all, it is economically justified and beyond the need for this county to have an economic court. For what reason? Because there are a large number of economic operators in this district and they need to be enabled, given the size of the territory covered by this district, to make it easier for them to have a court to address and to have communication with, so for all these economic operators it is necessary to respect this amendment, that the Mačvan County has an economic court, not a unit of economic court, but an economic court. We have heard the story more than once from representatives of the government and MPs of the ruling coalition that the reduction of the network of courts is in the interest of rationalising and reducing costs, but, as I have already said in one of the previous exhibitions, I believe that the introduction of the Valjevo Chamber of Commerce for the territory of the Mačvanski District is not, above all, rational, and there is no economic justification, about the political dimension of this problem and that we are not talking. Because, precisely because the headquarters of the Court of Commerce is in a completely different district, because of the size of the county, the number of businessmen referred to that economic court, I believe that the argument given by the Government does not stand and that it is necessary, in particular, to repeat it once more, because this is one of the rare districts, if not the only one who has two cities, that the Mačvan County has an economic court, not a unit of the Court of Commerce from Valjev, from the Kolubar district, but that it is necessary to have an economic court. We know that the Mačvani District is a large number of business entities and is one of the stronger districts in terms of economy and, in general, an economic environment. There are a large number of economic operators that are aimed at both our internal market within the Republic of Serbia and the external trade market. It's simple, for all these economic operators, it's beyond the need for the Machvani County to have its headquarters and not have its own unit, but a commercial court. I think these reasons are quite justified, and I expect the MPs from the Mačvanski District, regardless of party membership, whether they are in power or in opposition, to support this proposal, as they are expected by all those involved in some business, who are in business, and the MPs should support this amendment tabled by Mr Zoran Nikolic, that the Mačvan County has an economic court, not a unit, based in Capac. I am counting on the fact that, given that we have brought forth a series of objections, and this is also seen in the number of amendments which, both the opposition and the ruling parties, have given full support to the entire network of courts, MPs and opposition parties, and the ruling coalitions, to support this proposal and to give support to this amendment, which gives the right to the Mačvan County and to all businessmen in that district that the Mačvan County has its own commercial court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9428	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I would ask you to give me back the time that began to run before I went out for the pay phone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, any indisputables that have been placed on paper since 2001 and here, in the National Assembly, declared by law, it is justified that this must be done because the European Union, the United States or any other foreign country, or other international organisation, requires us to do so. I have already asked many questions, who from the EU or, in general, who from the Western world is asking for a valid answer in the Republic of Serbia at the end of 2008. Of course, for this law on the areas of courts and public prosecutors, it is probably worth the general flossula – that such a law must be passed because it is a step towards Serbia's convergence with European and Euro-Atlantic integration. However, it is a story that has less and less foundation, a story that is becoming less and less positive for Serbian citizens. Now you see, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and you, Mrs Malovic, I have in my hands the Declaration of the Advisory Council of European Judges. Consultatively larger European judges are the advisory body of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers and it has been functioning since 2001. This body is made up of judges from all Member States of the Council of Europe. So it's a body that has political and especially professional credibility. Let's see what the European judges say about your draft laws, not only this law that we are discussing today, the amendments, the law on the areas of courts and public prosecutors, but the entire set of judicial laws, as proposed by the Serbian government. So, Mrs Malovic, the Declaration reads as follows: ''The Declaration of the Advisory Council of European Judges, which, after the power of the plenary session, was adopted in Strasbourg on 14 November 2008, by his desk and on the proposal for legislation in the procedure before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and which envision the termination of the judge's duties elected under earlier laws. By letter dated 24 December 2007 and from 4 November 2008, the Association of Judges of Serbia informed the European Court of Justice that, on a proposal from the competent ministry, there was a proposal for a Law on Judges, which stipulates: (a) the termination of the court's duty with 31 December 2009 to judges not elected under that law, (b) the power of the Supreme Council to decide on the required number of judges and (v) the right to compensation for six months for judges who are not re-elected and which may be extended for another six months for judges who are entitled to retire in those six months. Consultatively major European judges discussed these issues at their Bureau meetings held in Lisbon on 23 April 2008, and Tartuu, 17 June 2008, as well as at the 9th plenary session in Strasbourg, held from 12 to 14 November 2008. In light of the above, the Council has concluded that the European Commission for Democracy is through law", the famous Venice Commission, "in its opinion on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on the draft laws on judges and laws on the regulation of the courts of the Republic of Serbia, has indicated that there is no obvious need for the process of renaming, re-election of all judges, nor in the context of changes to the Constitution, nor in the context of reform of the judicial system. "Furthermore, I will not read you the whole text: ''Consultually bigger has concluded that the principle of incompetence of the judge and the continuity of the judge's office, until the legal conditions for retirement are fulfilled, or until the expiry of the time-limited term, where he exists, is the basic principle of independence of the judiciary. It concluded that the adoption of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution did not lead to a interruption of the legal and political continuity, and that Article 7 of that constitutional law, which stipulates that the first choice of judges of the Supreme Cassation Court will be carried out no later than 90 days from the day of the constitution of the High Council of the judiciary, and the election of the other judges, within one year, should be interpreted in accordance with the principle of integrity and continuity of the judicial function, guaranteed both by the previous and current constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The advisory council expresses its concerns, Mrs Malovic, "that the proposal for a law on judges, which is under procedure before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and which clearly determines the termination of the judge's duties to judges who already have permanent office, threatens the independence of the judiciary. Starting with the above, the Plenary session of the European Judges' Advisory Council proposes that Serbia's representative be informed of this declaration by the High Council of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, which should be a guarantee of the independence of the judiciary in the country, as well as the Association of Judges of Serbia, that, in agreement with the Bureau and the secretariat of the organisation, all necessary measures should be taken to organise, at the request of the Serbian authorities, a meeting at which these issues will be discussed in more detail. ''Here, it is now quite clear that what you are proposing is not that it is not in line with European standards, but is directly contrary to those standards. So, this thesis that we must bring, literally, to the power of God this law, although the professional public is against it, although it is a good part of the MPs against it, both the opposition and the ruling parties, although the good part of the media is against this law, is a good part of the judge, the judicial administration, etc., as you have proposed it, because it is in accordance with European standards, it is not the right. I reminded you, Mrs Malovic, of a document that should be very important, very important for you who are unconditionally seeking to join the EU. It is the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in the European integration process. Approximately, it is a "sacred letter" on Serbia's path to EU accession. I am really surprised that, suddenly, this report is no longer important to you, it is no longer important what the European Commission says about the ways of reform in the Republic of Serbia, now, all of a sudden, you find some ways to join the EU beyond those of the official and aside from the opinions of the European institutions themselves. So I read this report in detail and, indeed, I couldn't find a single sentence anywhere about the need to pass laws like this. There is no such provision, no recommendation, no advice, no conclusion, absolutely nothing. I read something else, though, that you from the ruling coalition are persistently pushing under the carpet, or you won't admit it. For example, we could hear these days, and not only these days, but also in recent weeks, over the past months and past years, that we, citizens of Serbia, are about to join the EU, yesterday we are about to join the EU, today, at the latest, we just need to catch Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic, eventually, if they make any further demands regarding the UN tribunal and, more or less, that's it. The European Commission's report says what's important is that Serbia has to do to be closer to the EU. Mrs. Malovic, see what's important? It doesn't matter that you're abolishing judges, courts, lustration of courts, you're making a mess of justice. This is not about the EU. This is what she asks of you: "It is important that Serbia demonstrates a constructive attitude towards Kosovo's participation in regional initiatives." That's what you're asked to do. They don't care if you have a court in Shida or if you don't have one, whether you have a court in the White Palace or not. They are interested in whether you are constructive when it comes to Kosovo's participation in regional initiatives. This is a condition for Serbia's approach to the EU, for Serbia to recognise Kosovo as its neighbour, for having extremely good relations with its neighbour, for helping it move forward in these regional initiatives. What are you still asking for? Co-operation with The Hague tribunal was assessed positively, with emphasis on the arrest and extradition of Radovan Karadzic. "Serbia is called on to end co-operation with the arrest and extradition of the remaining two indictees." The remaining two indictees are likely General Ratko Mladic, whom you searched the house for the other day, and Goran Hadzic. Further – fiscal policy. Gentlemen, what is your fiscal policy? You say it's great. Bozidar Djelic here has been calling on both MPs and citizens to join the EU, because, my God, he runs such an economic and fiscal policy that is absolutely in line with European standards. But when the European Commission's report is read, there is an entirely opposite conclusion. "The fiscal policy remains expansional, especially before and after the elections, which threatens macroeconomic stability. Generally, the macroeconomic mix is considered unbalanced, with insufficient fiscal constraints." When you translate this into plain Serbian language, gentlemen, you spend a lot of money, public spending is extremely large, you have a large number of ministries, you have a large number of agencies, a large number of administration bodies within the ministries, a huge state administration, too expensive, inefficient, irrational, it costs a lot. Instead of going into reform by screwing a party-made state administration, you're going to fire the judges, just because they're not politically loyal to you. Furthermore, what is said, Mrs Malovic, in this Bible of European integration for Serbia. "Small progress has been recorded in the area of employment." Remember what you promised, not only now and in 2004, what Boris Tadic said: "Citizens, just choose me, only we have not joined the EU, 500,000, millions of new employees." But when you look at the numbers of a cold head, when you think about what you promise, you get a whole different impression. So: “Small progress has been recorded in the area of employment. The employment strategy is in line with European requirements." Well done, but the application is weak. "Secretary measures are being taken to increase employment, especially through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but a particular problem is women's unemployment. In the area of social policy, the 2005 Labour Act is still in force. There is no progress in the field of protection and safety at work, there is no comprehensive anti-discrimination law." As you can see, pretty unfavourable grades. You haven't made much progress in eight years in approaching the EU. "The least progress is recorded in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources." Let me remind you, you've made one in a series of agencies. I don't know if any of you know what this agency's called – Energy Efficiency Agency. When you educated that agency, you said all energy problems would be solved. They're not solved. You created an agency, it costs a lot, and that's where you hired your party staff, the results are very low. Next, Mrs Malovic, what is very important to you – the fight against money laundering. That's your head of four of this report. "It is estimated that less progress has been made in this area, but that a new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is needed, as well as that police and prosecutors do not have enough capacity to process money laundering cases. The conclusion is that preparations are still in the early stages, but that money laundering remains a serious problem." That's what the opposition keeps telling you. You're laundering money, you're not taking any steps to stop it. Furthermore, the fight against organised crime, in the areas of drug trafficking, financial crime, money laundering and corruption are subject to serious concerns and the European Commission's assessment is that little progress has been made in these areas. The Code of Criminal Procedure has not begun to apply. "The conclusion is that reforms in this area are at an early stage, which is causing concern, because it affects the rule of law and a business environment." All in all, ladies and gentlemen of the Europeans, for the past eight years, not that Serbia is no closer to the EU than it has ever been, despite all your declarative stories about Europe, European standards, reforms, etc. That's not gonna happen. Mrs. Malovic, if you followed yesterday's show "Imprint of the Week" on TV B92, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic has said more or less openly that since Serbia's entry into the EU, there is basically nothing. When Serbia will join the EU, he said, "You know, it's not up to us." When we told you that it is not up to Serbia when it will join the EU, but depending on the EU whether Serbia wants to be an equal partner or not, you laughed, you said, "it depends on us, just to choose a democratic and pro-European government, in six months at the latest, we enter the EU." (President: Time. ) Yesterday, the man said, "I don't know when we're going to join the EU, I don't know, it's important that Serbia becomes a European country, and when we formally become an EU member, it doesn't matter at all." Boris Tadic's promise to join the EU yesterday, and in 2004, and in May's elections in 2008, no problem, that's what you promised before the elections. You never essentially wanted to do anything to bring the situation in Serbia closer to European standards. Europe only serves you as a pre-election story. That is the case, the European Commission's report confirms. Serbia, therefore, is far from the EU, we do not know when we will enter it, and what you have written in the draft laws on both judges and on the areas of the courts... (President: Would you like to finish? )......................................................................................................... It absolutely does not comply with European standards themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9430	On Article 5, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Bortic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Bortice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9431	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, the amendment I submitted to Article 5 of this proposal, as well as the other amendments to the proposed laws on the regulation of courts and judges, were intended to make the texts of the law more high-quality. In this sense, the governmental majority's will to reach the best legal solutions through the debate was best confirmed. In the debate on the principle of these laws, we from the SPS-JS Group and through a number of amendments have constructively contributed to the draft legislative texts being corrected. Therefore, I believe that the evaluations of fellow MPs from the opposition, according to which the ruling majority has no ear for their proposals and suggestions, are, as far as I can tell, not standing. This team before a large number of amendments to the proposed laws were adopted. So, I think it would be good to focus the atmosphere in the Assembly, through the debate, on that direction, that any text of the law, both of which we are discussing today and in the future, should be made better, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. I am thus experiencing the work of all MPs, and I am firmly convinced that we are at the same job and that only through open, well-intentioned and creative debate can we come to the best solutions. This will justify the trust that the citizens gave us in the elections. I also want to point out that our approximation of Europe and European standards implies, among other things, the need to adapt and bring legislation into line with the European one. That's why the amendment I submitted to Article 5. The draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, in my deep conviction, which confirms that in the design of legal projects, we must have hearing about all the facts and parameters that the international community points to. The area of trade, i.e. under the proposal for a new law, of commercial courts, has been designated as the area in which the most irregularities have been observed. This is why it is very important for business courts to be considered in order to ensure their efficiency and better availability to parties in the process. That is why, in the amendment to Article 5 of this Law, I proposed that the headquarters of the Economic Court for Territories of the municipalities of Bogatic, Vladimirs, Koceljeva, Krupanj, Ljig, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Mininica, Osijek and the towns of Valjevo, Loznica and Šabac, from Valjev, be transferred to Šabac. In light of this amendment, I had in mind the declared objectives of a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the fact that all citizens and legal persons should be given access to the court on equal terms. All parameters are in favour of the office of the Court of Commerce being moved to Shabac. I'll point to only a few. First, the Mačvanski district has six municipalities and two cities, where more than 300,000 inhabitants live. The Kolubar district has five municipalities and one city, where 200,000 inhabitants live. Secondly, the town of Sabac, as a headquarters, is geographically closer to the largest number of municipalities in both districts whose population is gravitating towards this centre. Third, the Mačvani District has a far larger number of business entities compared to the Kolubar district, and according to the flow of money, this district is third in Serbia, right after Belgrade and Novi Sad. Fourthly, the current practice at the Trade Court in Valjevo shows that the largest number of parties in front of this court is from the Machuvan district. As a result, a completely logical question is raised, why would the parties from the Machuvan district cross hundreds and more kilometers to Valjev to resolve the dispute, when Shabac is a natural centre and is within their reach. In order for this exposure not to be understood as local patriotic, I would remind you that the vast number of citizens living or working in Šapac leads to origin from the area of these municipalities. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia's position to accept the amendment in part and to form the working units of the Court of Commerce – Sabac and Loznica, is only a partial solution and is a bad compromise. I do not understand why the arguments presented in this amendment, as an MP from the SPS-JS Group, were not fully understood by MPs from the Machuvan district area, because these arguments are not party, are not selfish and are not against Valjev and Kolubar County in general. On the contrary, the objective of this amendment is to achieve a balanced development of Western Serbia and the rational use of the potential needed to form and operate a commercial court. Sabac, in that sense, has all these potentials, both spatial and humane, and a very rich tradition in the area of justice. If we want to build a society in which institutions will be available to all citizens on equal terms, then there is no reason that the headquarters of the economic court will not be in Šapec. That is why I urge all Members of the People to accept this amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9432	Thank you, Mr. Bortic. It's about the amendment, Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, to inform the MPs and citizens of Serbia, with this proposal I did not want to go out earlier, I suggested that the President of the Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, be the most normal and it would be the turn to have the delegation of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly attend the funeral of the Russian patriarch. However, it seems that we did not find a good will with the government, which probably, in line with its austerity policy, believes that leaving would be an extremely large blow to Serbia's budget, especially when we have, say, and that when it comes to the budget, we will have the opportunity to see how much travel is spent. Office for European Integration – 9.5 million, General Secretariat of the Government – 94 million, cabinet of Prime Minister 8.7, Ministry of Trade and Services – 8 million and 430 thousand, Ministry of Education – 12 million and 500 000, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is extremely important that we tell the citizens certain things and facts that will show who is essentially ruling this country, what are unserious people, what are these axes, frauds, who are the only ones who are the sole goal of choosing from the election to the Serbian citizens' fraud. Nothing more, for God's sake. They use it every possible moment, every possible way. In doing so, they see that with those who raise certain questions, they are dealt with in the most brutal way, using lies, pranks, bribery, and in doing so, they have all kinds of media that consciously engage in lies, labeling and defaming anyone who tries to change certain things in this country. You all remember the problem that was only related to one public enterprise, to Nicole Tesla Airport. What's that got to do with anything? It's been a week since they promised to enter the budget inspection, to enter UBPOK, but they, as they have so far, believe new problems, new affairs, will completely neglect these old ones. They'll forget it. We shall go after something new, and, according to that folk, eat a donkey wolf. We will now have a budget, so whether it will be adopted or not, so whether the opposition will stop again the train that set off for the EU with those high-speed tracks, so they will try to deceive the citizens of Serbia that all of these are responsible for the opposition's MPs. A repertoire has already been established and the way these matchmakers, axes, and cheaters have been serving for eight years to continue to rule. You remember, after that affair, immediately on December 2nd, and that was Tuesday, on TV B92 very important news. He says, the Management Board of the "Telecom Serbia" Action Society has decided to accept the government's recommendation and reduce the remuneration of members of that body to the level of average earnings in Serbia, which he did on a proposal from the chairman of the Drago Hiber Management Board. Otherwise, he was Dragan for a while, so Dragomir, and now Dragore; then he was not that important. It's also said -- by the way, it's interesting that at the time he killed the minister in the Serbian government, he was in charge of telecommunications... First of all, I wasn't the Minister of Telecommunications, that's the elemental thing to know, I was the Minister of Transport and Communications, there was the Federal Ministry of Telecommunications. "When Dragan Todorovic was from the SRS, who now criticises the highest salaries in Telecom, that fee was 13.5,000 German marks, and the chairman of the Management Board, at the time it was the late Vlajko Stojiljkovic, received 15 thousand marks. This other is not accurate information, he was receiving 5,000 marks. All right, take it easy. The first thing they had to do was look at the law and see how it was arranged, who had jurisdiction over the then Telecom. For your information, Telecom Serbia, at the time 49% was sold to Italians, there was a company and the minister of transport and the relationship had no right to affect the salary of the management of our Italian experts, because foreigners had higher salaries than they had in their countries. Therefore, Article 35 of that Law states: companies with the role of a foreign investor, established in accordance with the law governing the exercise of certain activities of general interest and the law governing foreign investment, continue to work in accordance with the founding act, general acts and given the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the SRS is concerned, we've had this high salary paralyzed in some way since the very entry into the government, and we've been trying, among other things, to see if this problem can be solved. So on July 17, 2000, a new member, Article 34, was introduced by the Law on Public Enterprises, which reads: "On the day of entry into force of this law, public enterprises and enterprises with the majority participation of state capital cannot pay off funding for sponsorship", as a major problem also emerged, sponsoring a variety of actions. Essentially, it all came down to "when the time comes for elections etc."and to use it to use this time for propaganda, or promotion of certain political parties. It means "can't make payments for sponsorship, donation, humanitarian, sports and similar activities, advertising, propaganda and representation, for the president of the board of directors, or compensation for the work of board members, the remuneration of the president and members of the Supervisory Board, until they obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia". But DOS came to power in 2000. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is this law still in force? Because those who fought for new values, the way to Europe, against corruption, against abuse, what do you think they did? They've done what they're expected to do and what they show every moment. He says, by amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises in 2002, "The Official Messenger", the number and that, article 12 was proposed, article 34 is deleted. So there are no restrictions from the government, what's being introduced into the law is deleted. Who was the chairman of the board of directors at the time? Dragore, Dragomir Hiber. How come he's... Well, no, he's only older, but he's smarter and more honest not for six years, but he's got a little bit of pressure, so let's just get our eyes dirty by making any bells known that, in accordance with the recommendations, aspirations, cuts the salaries in public enterprises, fees on boards, etc. Now you're wondering, how come B92 publishes such false information? This is just amazing, this is about a man taking and folding a tab and suing them. These are absolutely lies. You know, behind them is the American Embassy and then all the pressures go to court... Three criminal charges have been lost against Mladjan Dinkic, there is not one. What's the B92 for? Well, it's work by effect now – you do it to me, I do it to you, and Mladjan Dinkic did it to them, you have to admit, at a time when he was governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. He signed on 17 January 2000 that the amount of leases in the contract was 1,280,463,00 dinars, with no turnover tax or 31,341 euros, then the euro was 60 dinars. You know the money's tight, it's just stronger. I think it's just as much today, just try to buy it. So, for 3.474.61 square meters, or 6,14 euros per square meter. Well, there is also an annex contract and, again, on behalf of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, it was signed by Radovan Jelasic. The amount of leases in the 31,343-euro contract annex is added, taking a middle course, which does not include value added tax, means the amount of leases is now tied to the euro and has not changed in relation to the contract. Now it's obvious how it's sprawled between politics, government, individual media, tycoon and everything that's been destroying this country for the past eight years. All that can be swallowed somehow, until you turn today's Politics, you have an article there: "What to do, when it's really expensive," Mladjan Dinkic. It's normal for a man to be interested in what that matchmaker, a fraud and a thief have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9434	Mr. Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9435	Now I'm going to prove it to you. Please be patient, I'm not speaking in my mind, now I'm going to tell you everything. You don't react to such lies, and at the time we were in the coalition and you know about this member of the law; that's what you're doing, is that it's an initiative of the SRS, but it's a fact that it is. Says Mladjan Dinkic when it's expensive, actually, cheap. He says the greatest danger to democracy is demagogy. I have to admit, I agree with Mladjan Dinkic, I only disagree with what he stands for. He's the least invited to stand out like this. He says, "In a distorted system of values, normal things appear to be abnormal, and normal behavior often makes fun of, even stampers." Let's ask a simple question, that Mladjan Dinkic and G17 are taxing us a list of what they mean under the list of these values. Gentlemen, we are insane. We're all for an institution for which Mrs. President could write us a recommendation, we're completely insane. We insist that Bojan Kristo does not have 11.5 thousand euros, that he does not make fictitious contracts, that he does not hire grandmothers, aunts, aunts. We're completely insane. Where do we get the right to do things like that? "But instead of a rational debate about whether such wages are deserved," listen to the people, is this really possible, 'and what the results of the work of certain companies are, everything soon turned into a witch hunt and an unfeeling media link of one man, director of the airport." Do you see that this is a shrewd, solid link, which serves only to rob Serbia? I don't have a lot of time, he says, "After the overall heist, one of the few directors left who bravely and successfully restructured his company, breaking numerous harmful contracts, reducing the salary mass by 15% compared to last year." My people, is it possible... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... This common sense can't stand. He says, "This is the best indicator that we can't deal with systemic corruption, robbery and crime differently until those who do this go behind bars and those who can deal with it." These geniuses you have, why didn't you send to RTB Bor, October 14, IMT, IMR, Magnochrom, the Car Factory, and the mass of the company whose workers you've already fired, who are in front of bankruptcy or bankruptcy, but have you sent them to public companies with a monopoly position, to rob and destroy this poor country and this poor people?- I'm sorry. Thank you and forgive this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9436	The word has a vice president, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then you, for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request information on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure. It was as if I had suspected that from the Italian "Fiat" of the company's president, Mr. Sergio Markioni, I would come up with this news, the other night I launched an affair with the company "Citadel", whose co-owner Paule Kavran, who was born Brother Olga Kavran of The Hague tribunal, and I asked why the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not come out with the information that the company took 50m euros for the conclusion of the so-called so-called. A strategic partnership between the Kragujeva flag and the Italian Fiat? However, Mr. Sergio Markione said that Italy's Fiat will have to look for a new strategic partner in the world, because Fiat is today extremely small and weak to survive the growing economic crisis. If Mr. Markione said that Fiat must seek stronger in the world, and yesterday you heard that there is nothing since the arrival of General Motors and the production of Astra Classics in Kragujevac, and there is also absolutely no hint by Italy's Fiat that the new model will be produced and there is nothing of those promised 700m euros, I request official information from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, and this, as Mr. Todorovic, Hohstupler Mladjan Dinkic, on what kind of contract was made with the Italian "Fiat". You are going out, Mr. Krasic, because this same Dinkic, for 11,000 pages of his crime, filed a lawsuit against you and, of course, fled the trial when you called Vladan Batic for one of the main witnesses, he gave up on it. For what Mr. Todorovic has and calls for that response by workers, not only the Kragujevaka flag, not only the whole of Šumadija, but the whole of Serbia, we need to get an answer. I must tell you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that at the same time, imagine, in 2008, and the world agencies passed on that news, a man who worked in the flag, an honest worker, who you threw out on the street, as well as 15,000 others, was found half dead in Kragujevac, in the middle of the city center. The man didn't eat for 14 days, he was ready to starve. Who's responsible for that? Boris Tadic, Veroljub Stevanovic, Mirko Cvetkovic, Mladjan Dinkic, all of you who lied and deceived the citizens of Kragujevac and all of Serbia in the campaign. You think the people will suffer it. What are you going to say now, how the president of Fiat is lying and making it up? They admit they're small in this whole mess that's happening in the world recession of the automotive industry. During that time, workers, who you forced out after 30 years of standing on the street, died in the center of Kragujevac,... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And here, as our people would say, you're beating up empty straw, and not only that, but you're beating up the state register, and the contabulary, and the public enterprises that are entrusted to you at your disposal. Therefore, I ask that part of this stenogram be directed to both Prime Minister and Mladjan Dinkic, to give me an answer to this as far as has been achieved with realisation, and do they, based on this statement by the president of the Fiat Group, continue to claim that they are still lying to the citizens of Kragujevac and all of Serbia that this agreement is supposed to be realised, and the situation is getting harder and harder every day? Thank you. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. I think it was important, and especially because of the fact that, as a Kragujevac, the news that this man, who has his family and who has been thrown out on the street, was found in the center of Kragujevac, had eaten nothing for 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9438	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Senic first answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9439	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, there is, for a reason, a legitimate fear that the economic situation in Serbia will look next year. It was precisely one of the reasons why talks on the budget were held this long, precisely, insisting that investment funds needed when we made an agreement with Fiat were provided within the budget. So from 2000 to 2008, it's one of Serbia's biggest problems. Hundreds and hundreds of euros were invested in Kragujevac, as you could see for yourself, without any concrete results, only for the purpose of preserving social stability. I think we made a good deal last year. As much resistance to all of this, what is much worse and much more worrying, is the fact that this resistance continues over the past few months and apparently someone cares that the contract signed and which represents a strategic contract and a strategic important document for this country, which should provide several thousand new jobs, which should provide new exports, new foreign direct investment, at any cost try to obstruct. If someone wants to break that contract, and I'm not talking about the opposition parties breaking the contract, it's very easy and very simple and can be done relatively quickly. But that's a question for the Kragujevci, a question for the citizens of the Forest, for all those who have seen what the contract is and how much it has contributed to the growth of expectations. Let people just look at themselves and let them say how much the prices of apartments in Kragujevac have jumped in the last few months, as a result of the expectation that it will be a good thing, which will finally get that city and the whole region out of the situation in which it is. Of course, it doesn't matter here, not even Fiat, it doesn't matter any other things here. Whenever we get into a situation to get closer to the normal work of the Assembly, in the last few months, there is one party that is a problem in the ruling coalition and there is, apparently, a general consensus. I hope in a few days we have a two-day or three-day debate on the government's trust. This is where all the ministers will be. He'll be representatives of all political parties. I hope that opposition parties will have opportunities, I am sure they will ask ministers and all parties about what has been done over the past few months, who has fulfilled their pre-election promises. Of course, there's one more thing to say. What Mr. Todorovic was saying, simply, to give him a chance to replicate, about a band, I think you said media, centres of power, etc. I think your party's been hit by the media a lot. I think in history... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... More recently, Serbia, after 2000, does not remember that one political leader and one political party were exposed to such a link by the media, as it has happened in the last few weeks with the G17 Plus party. You can't talk about that there's a band between the media and politicians, if in all the daily newspapers, all the TV stations, you have the exact same approach, the same approach, and an attempt to make some kind of political preparation for what's being said in the towers these days that it's going to happen next year. (President: Time. I think the last elections, which took place a few months ago, have won a great victory, first of all, for citizens who have been identified as European Serbia. I've kind of broken the schedule, but I think we've had a chance to listen to different stories for the past few weeks. We didn't answer, we didn't talk. (President: Please bring in the end of the exhibition) I think we really need to talk about what the problems are here, what this is about and why this hack continues. We then agreed that all public enterprises...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9440	Mr. Senic, will you finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9441	Here, I'll be done in 20 seconds. ... I hope that we will have all that information very soon. If someone thinks that continuing this campaign will make some nervous moves, that, in any case, won't happen, but I'm sure that this campaign will drive a lot of things clean and we look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9442	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Todorovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9443	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Senic, I would completely agree with one part of your exposure when it comes to the media situation and the possibility of abuse. I don't have any dilemma about that. But, Mr. Senic, it is clear to you that the media can abuse those who have power and those who have money. When it comes to the SRS, it doesn't stand either. So, the problem is with your coalition partner, or DS. I brought it up, among other things, when he started the problem with public enterprises, etc. I even said that in the context of my statements – that there is a balance of fear, that approximately, this problem is not solved because there are difficulties in getting data on other public enterprises, in which they are 'yellow' in power. Here, let's say NIS. We're trying, I've been trying, as chairman of the Administrative Board, to get information about the Director General's salary, but I've been told it's an official secret. On a proposal from the Chairman of the Management Board, it was decided that the salary of the Director, the Chairman of the Management Boards, etc. Official secret. We found out off the record that she was 562 or 563 thousand dinars, as we, say, unofficially learned that the director of the board of directors at NIS, as soon as she came to that place, was looking for a gold visa card, ourselves and others, and started spending money on the world based on the 'visa' card. Do you know what's going on here? Here, obviously, is the problem with you, because here you are saying, it's a short time for me, that the problem with Kragujevac is that it's supposed to be a great arrangement for someone who's mined. Who mined that? Is it the SRS, or the yellow company? Then the question is, what about the Gas Agreement? They complain that it is also a mine and indicate that it is Mladjan Dinkic and G-17 plus. It is openly said that Mladjan Dinkic lobbys for OMV etc. Then I ask the question - my people, is that possible? Then how are you in the same government? How can you sit in the same government, accuse each other, work on your head, and sit in government? Come on, then, what motive is that? What is it - power, power and money? Money and a moment to answer for the crime you've committed so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9444	Time, Mr. Todorovic. He has the word Mr. Aleksandar Martinović – replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9445	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would just like to say a few words to the previous speaker who discussed the amendment. I think it's Mr. Bortic. Mr. Bortic, there's an anecdote in ancient times. They say that one Greek, who boasted that on Rhodes Island he jumped far, so when he returned to his place, his friends said, "Here is Rhodes, jump here! "It is not worth you here to be heroic in front of the people, the Assembly, in front of the viewers who follow this television broadcast, and to say – and we from the ruling coalition have submitted a large number of amendments, and we are not satisfied with many solutions in this law, so the government has accepted one part of our amendments, etc. I can only trust you or I don't trust you with all the respect I have for you. After all, both you DS gentlemen and you SPS gentlemen and all the others from the ruling coalition who have submitted amendments to this bill, whose amendments are not accepted, your adherence to the Constitution, your commitment to the interests of citizens, your attachment to the judges and people who work in the judicial administration will prove on the day of the vote. If you respect, first of all, your political dignity, if you are fully free Members, who are not voting under the Central Directive, but in their own free belief, then on the day of your vote, you will vote for the amendments that you have tabled on the draft of this law, which the government has not accepted for you. I now claim that you will not vote for these amendments and that these amendments are just a dead letter on paper. These amendments serve only to wash your political conscience before the citizens of the municipalities from which you come and to say – see, we have written amendments, we have defended them for the assembly speaker, but what is worth it, the Serbian government has not accepted them. So I say to you - you will not vote for these amendments. If I'm wrong, here, it'll be a day to vote soon, and you deny me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9446	Mr. Senic wants a replica, though. I'm sorry, I wasn't sure you'd define yourself as a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9447	I'll have short, honourable MPs, just around NIS. So this is where we ratified the NIS contract. I think we still had the Industry Committee today. In any case, it is important that this process is transparent. You have seen certain objections brought by MPs in the Republic of Parliament accepted. Negotiations go hand in hand, and I am sure that the public in Serbia will be informed in time about what kind of contracts are concluded. There's no reason to run from the public. In any case, I believe that the whole story of an oil-gas arrangement has been given the right publicity, because it is an important contract and agreement for us and there is no doubt that any debate that contributes to the improvement of this agreement will only benefit our country, so that our position is very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9448	There is a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic, and Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9449	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Senic, I need to remind you of some things, some chronology when it comes to the Gas Agreement. You remember the pre-election activity in 2007 – Gas agreement on all bells. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Capital Investment are leaving for Moscow. The Gas Agreement is signed and there is a general will to ratify the agreement in the Assembly and to move towards realisation as soon as possible. It is obvious that the agreement was needed exclusively for pre-election purposes, in order to deceive and deceive Serbian citizens, and that was part of the government at the time. He appears, who other than Mladjan Dinkic who says he can't, the agreement is wrong. The calculation, or the calculation of the value of NIS, should be done again, to take those houses that are being dealt with, because there will be a commission drop, and Mladjan Dinkic says it is obvious that NIS is being underestimated and that this is losing Serbia's state. On the side of whether to pass the highway pipeline, whether to activate the 'Banatski Dvor', whether Serbia will have a privileged price, how much businesses will engage in the gas pipeline business, Mladjan Dinkic has put an end to it and there is nothing to it, and "yellow" is wise to keep quiet. That's the problem. Then, the 2008 elections come again, back to the Talambasses, drums, Gas Agreements, etc. Although we are asking, at a time when elections are called, to schedule a session of the Assembly and to ratify the agreement, they say – it cannot be scheduled, because the Assembly is now only technical, as is the Government. Technically, when they need it, and when they don't need it, then they have a lot of right to ambush and make decisions, etc. The gas agreement again on all bells, etc. Mladjan Dinkic again tells us that the agreement is not good, and the "yellow" is silent. Then what was Boris Tadic doing there? Really, now I think Mladjan Dinkic is just a spokesman, that Boris Tadic cheated on him, that he told him – let's hit the Gas Agreement because I can't, because you can't, so let's see what happens and what this comes up to. That's the problem with you. You're cheating on everyone, so you're wrong on each other. But once it's over, it's over. The bills must be made, whether the agreement is right or wrong. If so, why not spend two years and if not, how could the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister be there? You then deceived all Serbian citizens. How can they go to sign something and attend to the signing, if that's not good? That's the problem, the scam. Just a hoax, you're capable of it, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9450	The word is Mr. Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I've never had any doubt that today's leaders of Serbia, the people of the ruling coalition, are actually children of titoism and Stalinism. What they're talking about is democracy, parliamentaryism, human rights, it's just a facade. Basically, their ideology is rooted in the post-World War II period, which preceded the introduction of a multi-party democratic system. Your rhetoric, Mr. Senic, reminds me of the rhetoric of Titus's communists after World War II. There are the forces of progress that draw forward, that want to create one better, happier society, richer, but there are some dark forces of chaos, crazy, that drag back. Now, in the eyes of the public, G 17 plus should be a front-drawing party, which advocates the society of prosperity, for people in Serbia to be rich, to come to Fiat, to come to General Motors, etc., but there is some dark radical opposition in the Serbian Assembly, which is a burgion and is doing everything that Serbia's cars go backwards, instead of going forward, in the bright future of Europe. We can expect that soon in the Serbian Parliament to find a law in the procedure on the establishment of an agitation and propaganda agency, as we once had Agitprop, to form committees that will take care of the ideological and moral likeness of the MPs and anyone who now comes out for a pay phone must take care of the great son of our people and all citizens of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic. You used to protect Joseph Broz's character and work, you shouldn't have said a word of criticism about his personality and his actions, and now nobody should say anything about Mladjan Dinkic. The largest son of our peoples and peoples, Serbs, all citizens of Serbia, members of national minorities, a man who is the only one who understands himself in the economy, in finance, in the management of state, in public enterprises, in talks with foreign investors, etc. You, Mr. Senic, boast, not just today, do it often, how democratic forces in the May 11th elections have gained great confidence in the citizens. Your party, Mr. Senic, is a pure political parasite. A party that cannot go to the elections alone, a party that goes to the back of another big party and thanks to the big party gets parliamentary mandates, is a purely political parasite. So, Mr. Senic, I will respect all your attitudes. In the next election, go out alone, tell the citizens of Serbia -- here, this is the man who leads us, Mladjan Dinkic, our party is called G 17 plus, nobody knows what it means, but it doesn't matter, we ourselves, by our name, go to the elections. When you win this number of terms you have, believe me, I'll be the first one to take your hat off.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9452	National MP Nesovic Jovan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9453	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, I advertise the violation of Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. Indeed, the Messengers of the people are obliged to tell the truth when they go out for the voice of this people's congregation about the laws that were adopted here. An agreement signed with the Russian Federation, so-called It's got three segments. Gentlemen, you can't fight for one without ruining the other two. You can't give NIS without having a bus pipeline, and you can't give NIS without knowing what the "Banatski Dvor" volume is. It's not defined in agreement and the job of the negotiations is to define these things. The negotiations are not conducted by Mladjan Dinkic, the negotiations are run by a negotiating team formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Mladjan Dinkic is only one of the members of the negotiating team. If your obsession is Mladjan Dinkic, it's your problem, there's really nothing I can do about it, it's what some other people do. One more thing I want to say is, you need to look at the moral right of those who criticize others. Do they have the moral right of those who took plots along the highway for a single dinar, so when someone goes to the municipality to ask how it happened, then says the president of the Zemun municipality – excuse me, come outside, you must not ask. Is it nice that those who have been convicted and who have been treated for counterfeiting and abuse in the economy are also talking about it? Easy, everything's gonna come up, answers, questions will be, just take it easy. One more thing to answer. Let's be completely honest. Don't attack G17 plus. You know how you gentlemen went in the local elections. In two cities you have not crossed the censorship, you have turned in the right direction, and if there are parasites in this country, the parasites are those who have come to this Parliament on the back of Tomislav Nikolic and now, my brothers, my beautiful, use these benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9454	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we may have come upon someone's back, but you will go with the help of someone's foot, there is no dilemma there anymore, on that matter. Let's go back, let's see the essence of the matter, what this is all about. We are not attacking Mladjan Dinkic because we are obsessed with him, but he is a man who has personified these new values and changes since 5 October 2000. Wherever you see some change, there must be Mladjan Dinkic, but every change is about the fat years of imprisonment. That's what's problematic. Let's go back, since I couldn't in that first presentation to further think of Mladjan Dinkic, to make it clear to you what's behind all this. Mladjan Dinkic says -- I guarantee that Serbia would develop much faster if the state apparatus were smaller and more efficient. And on December 31st, 2000, there were 8,700 employees in the state administration, no police and the military, on December 31st 2004, there were 27,000, and now, God forbid. You'll have a chance to see how much a cabinet costs when the budget's being discussed. According to Mladjan Dinkic – therefore, there must be a whole new system of values and responsibilities for working in public enterprises. What do you need, 100 years, 80 years? You've been in power for eight years. Why didn't you do it? We're coming to the finals now. What's the point? That's what Mladjan Dinkic says, he won't hide. What's the final solution? Many came out with final solutions. For Mladjan Dinkic, this is privatisation, in all those cases where it is possible to achieve the goal. What's the point? To sell what is successful, which is only possible to sell, and to pick up, someone in Florida, someone in Cayman and the rest of the islands, and to finish. I ask the simple question for both Serbian citizens and MPs – do you think that Mladjan Dinkic, when he had public enterprises in mind, meant "The Railways" of Serbia? (President: Time. No, he doesn't care. He's interested in companies for which money is to be taken, to pick up and disappear from the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9456	Mr. Jadranko Vukovic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9457	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting under Article 104 - the dignity of this assembly, because of a previous speaker, which I cannot even quote. Dear sir, seeing as you're uninformed, Tomislav Nikolic, you can see he's not here, waiting. Two fights were overcome, one, last Friday, leaving the government, one now, over the weekend, about the budget; he's waiting to fly in for you. Do you know that? That's true. He waits and prays to God. Mr Tadic has now calmed him down and Tomislav Nikolic is on standby. That's one thing. Secondly, this time, unlike my colleagues, I will defend Mladjan Dinkic. I may be resented by Mr. Todorovic, but how will I defend him? The truth is next. Of course, we support a gas agreement that will be signed on 20th in Moscow and will have some changes that will be positive for the state of Serbia. The Russians are correct, but where's the problem, dear sir? After October 5th, with the arrival of the new government, accompanied by Alexander Vlahovic, then Prime Minister of Privatisation, Miroljub Labus, Deputy Prime Minister of Progress, Progress, Progressgas Trejinga, Beobanke and Sartida are sold to the company 'Centrex' which has its headquarters in Vienna. Although "Serbigas" had, through NIS, the right to prevent buying, it was explained then, by these people who were in the government, that because of the lack of money NIS could not buy shares, and that shares were sold to a third person. "Centrex" paid $2.4 million for all these actions. Why am I pointing this out, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? You did it, the G17 then did it, as Mr. Todorovic said, and blackmailed the Russians to have a commission in a story. Otherwise, how do all the countries, ma'am, that you frown, in the EU, in the area of transporting oil, gas and electricity, work through state-owned companies, retain control of these transports? (President: Time. I'll finish now, Mrs. Djukic. It would be logical for the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a Serb participant, to appoint the company "Serbia". This G17 company has prevented "Srbigas" from having 49% and the Russians from having 51%. Thanks to you, the relationship has changed. (President: Bring the end. I thank you, Mrs. Slavice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9458	National MP, Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9459	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see anyone here from the Ministry or Madam Minister. I guess she had to get out. This lady minister has been sitting here most often and for the longest time and has really been involved in the work, so I can understand that she has to come out from time to time. On the other hand, I would return this story to the amendments and report on Mr Zoran Bortic's amendment to Article 5, point 2, in which he says – The Commercial Court in Sapac, for the territory of the municipalities of Bogatic, Vladimirci, Koceljeva, Krupanj, Ljig, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Mininica, Osecina, Ub and the cities of Valjevo, Loznica and Šabac. In other words, Mr Bortic proposed this amendment that the Commercial Court located in Valjevo be removed from the Colubar County and that its headquarters be transferred to Sabac, as a town in the Mačvan County. As an DSS MP coming from the Colubary County territory, I have really prepared very seriously the data relating to the matter these laws present here. I think it's only appropriate for these data to cross, to get the right parameters and get the right discussion. I would like to discuss Mr Bortic's arguments, which, when he spoke of his amendment, are extremely general. It is a political story of the ruling coalition's MPs coming from the territory of the Pussy County and telling a political story, wishing that the political story would make some impression on its voters. I'd like to speak the language of numbers now and then talk to him and I, based on it. The data I want to present refers to his argument that there are far more cases from the Mačvan County in front of the Trade Court in Valjevo than it is from the Kolubar County. Here are the exact figures, because they refer to the year 2007. I have the data from 2008, but it's not finished and we can't compare them, and that's the data that the Valjev Trade Court delivered to the Department of Justice. Otherwise, it's a court that has 91.2% of solved cases in 2007, while the frequency coefficient is 0.91%, which means that the percentage is lower, the update is higher. So here's the data, so let's talk about it. In the matter of business disputes, litigation, from the territory of the Mačvan County 573 items were received, from the territory of the Kolubar County – 559 litigation cases, total 1.132; difference for the Mačvan County – plus 14. In bankruptcy matter, 13 items were received from the territory of the Mačvan County, from the territory of Kolubar County – 14 items, 27 total; difference in favour of Kolubarski – plus one. In the matter of execution, a total of 1,578 items and 459, I will explain what they are, meaning 1.119; from the territory of the Kolubar district, a total of 1,487 items and 335, means, 1.152. These items are executed on the basis of judgments, and also on the basis of credible documents, mostly accounts and invoices. It's actually a lawsuit, because after the complaint, a lawsuit is based. There is a difference – 33 items in favor of the Kolubar County. I have one more thing to specify, when I'm talking about these items, about sword objects. These are items, together, from Loznica and Šapac, and when I talk about items from Kolubar County, then they're just items from Kolubar County, from Valjev. One of his arguments was that the court in Sapac would be a more economical variant, everything is equally close, all cities and places are equally close. The Lord has forgotten only one thing, that trade courts are, in fact, courts of special jurisdiction. In no way can I compare myself with the courts of general jurisdiction, which he kept saying. I must say, these nine judges, as many as this court has in Valjev, should either be out of a job, or, according to your proposal, travel in various ways to Shabac. I have to say another problem with that. Does the gentleman know how many judges are required to form a judicial council, what is the monthly norm per judge worth the work of a judge, that one bankruptcy case requires at least four judges, none of whom can act in a litigation case that arises from this case? So there's a lot of arguments here that say that what he's proposing is, in fact, a beautiful political story, but without arguments, there are no real life examples that can benefit that story. That's why I thought I needed to make my point. It's just, I come from the Colubary County, and I'm very interested in what's done in the Colubary County. I don't mind if Shabac gets a trade court, but not in the way Mr Bortic suggested, that the Trade Court be abolished in the Colubary County and transferred there.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9460	The word is made by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9461	President-in-Office, dear minister, esteemed fellow Members of the People, I think that in this House each of us MPs has the right to propose and launch certain initiatives. I don't think anyone should be found at risk because someone's suggesting something. Also, I think I've reasoned that the Machevan County deserves to have an economic court in Capco. I'm the opposition councilman at SO Shabac. I've seen that our economy is far stronger than any of the municipalities. I don't want to underestimate any of them. There's no bigger argument than to take the municipalities' budgets in both districts, so let's add, let's see who has more business investments, where businessmen come in to invest and make business contracts. In the territory of the Mačvanski district, for example, a investor comes to Shabac and we go to the Business Court in Valjevo to make a deal on a done deal. I think it's illogical. The fact is, the Machvani County has 300 and some thousands of inhabitants. I don't want to speak exact numbers, there's someone who does that, and I think someone should have dealt with it. What I'm saying is that this amendment of mine, right after a week, found space in all the media, and I think it's a hit on the target, as soon as the President of the Court of Commerce in Valjev took an interest. He sent all MPs these arguments. It's all over the sheets. It's now some rivalry of Whisper and Valyev from before, which I don't want to go into. I don't think I wanted to take anything from anyone here, but there are arguments, numbers. I think the Mačvan County and the Shabac deserve to get an economic court, that there was little wisdom in the Ministry, because I wanted to propose it in one wide diapazon, so the Ministry wouldn't pay attention and get as much attention out of that part as possible for the territory of the Mačvan County, and for the town of Shabac itself, and for all the businessmen. We have seen that the European Community has made the most of its objections, precisely, to commercial courts, now, and to the proposal of this law – trade courts. We've got that most objections. I thought based on that, respecting all the facts, all the arguments, they'd give the Whisper a court, not a unit. This is politics, this is a political move, to get units. He doesn't deserve the Machvani District Unit, he doesn't deserve the Machvani County to be left without a trade court, or a commercial court. He should have it, he's got all the facilities. So please, not because I suggested it, Zoran Bortic, take it and do it, let it be the government's proposal. I thought the government would have understanding and hearing and that it would do the right thing and give Capca, or Machvani County an economic court, but there seems to be no hearing. I don't think there's any reason for any of your colleagues to get angry. I appealed in the principle debate, discussed the sole territory of the Pussy County about this set of laws. None of my colleagues discussed it. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: How will you vote? I'm sorry, I can't throw it to you, nor would I want to throw it to you, even if I'm sitting in the front row, especially since I'm sitting in the last row. I mean, I don't want to blame any MP for what he's proposing, but I think the Sabbath should get an economic court. When the vote comes, we'll all see who votes. We here make political arguments and vote, or we don't vote, but it is more incorrect that political flossules and stories are presented here, and when the day comes to vote that there are no MPs in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9462	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9463	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not have wanted Mr Bortic to have realized that I had attacked him personally. I was just taking his arguments, the way I think it's quite meaningful, actually, with the language of numbers. I respect a saying that says, when the numbers speak, and the gods are silent. So I took the numbers out of one district and another, put them in front of the MPs, the gentleman said they had the same numbers, saw that I didn't abuse any of them. I've brought them out the way they are, and I just don't mind Shabac getting a court, but the fact that a trade court in Valjevo needs to be abolished because Shabac has a bigger budget, I don't think it has anything to do with each other. Absolutely, I have nothing against Mr. MPs, maybe I'm a little more of a sounder discussion, nor is it related to rivalry between Capac and Valev. I just want to get the numbers out; for every normal person, numbers are enough to compare some things. If we're going to make political arguments, we can talk about them, but I speak the language of numbers. The language of numbers shows that the number of cases in the Trade Court in Valjevo from the Mačvan County and from the Kolubar County is very close, one or two cases in favour of one or another city, with what I say again, when it comes to the Mačvan County, the cities of Šabac and Loznica are together, and when it comes to Kolubarski – only Valjevo. So that's the language of numbers. We can discuss it further. Please, don't find yourself offended, I have nothing against your arguments, or the way you put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9464	Mr. Zoran Bortić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9465	President-in-Office, dear minister, esteemed fellow MPs, I can trust the number speech when it comes from a center that fights for something, that it has an economic court. It's about numbers. I have appealed to all MPs in the principle debate to give as many amendments here as possible, to try to fix the law, whether it's good or not, there's been some debate, to make it better. I honestly want to tell you that I am too pleased with the participation of all MPs, and opposition and positions, in the work of this law. If we observe all the judicial laws, perhaps this law has been passed at least, one third of the amendments have been adopted. That's good. The fact is that amendments have been adopted that do a little bit of fixing the text, and a little bit of the essence has escaped, a little bit more. That's why we need to talk to arguments about these laws, discuss, try to convince the real, reasoned way the Ministry, the Government, to continue to think. As long as we don't vote, it's not finally. There's a possibility of a change. I thought that's how I talked. That's why I have appealed to all MPs that we are going in that direction, and I honestly want to say that I am grateful and to the MPs of the opposition and the positions to discuss these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9466	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Balint Pastor has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9467	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of my address, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, on behalf of Kurban, on all citizens celebrating this great Islamic holiday. Madam Minister, I don't know what else to say. In the afternoon part, I said almost everything I had on our amendments. I have no intention of repeating all this now, and I have no intention of talking much. I don't think there's much point in talking in the fifth day of the debate, at least my position is like that. We've had opportunities to make all our views, all our arguments. No one made any counterarguments based on which we could withdraw, say, these amendments of ours. We are still convinced that it would be the most comprehensive and best for the Ministry of Justice to accept these amendments regarding the basic courts in Backo Topoli, Senti and Vienna. We have made arguments in the sphere of history, geography, official use of the language of national minorities in judicial proceedings, sociology, etc. We quoted the conclusions and recommendations of certain local self-governments. This morning I quoted certain parts of the recommendations SO Vienna since 21 November 2008. Last week I was quoting some of the conclusions from the session of SO Back Topola since 30 October 2008. We said everything we had to say in favour of the survival of these courts. I said this morning that one of the ruling majority MPs has voiced the view that a system of justice needs to be rationalised because Belgrade's lawyers cannot win disputes in small towns. We've also heard anti-arguments, call counter-varguments on this side in the past few days, that we're pushing for the survival of these courts because the SVM is in power in these municipalities. That's not what you said, Madam Minister, but there were attitudes like that. Those attitudes aren't right. Of course, it's not our motivation that we have power in these municipalities. Neither in Vienna nor in Backo Topoli, nor in Senta we rule the'same'. In all these municipalities, the coalitions are in power, that is, holding the majority in these municipalities, and these majority are very similar to this majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have an absolute majority in Kanjija, but for Kanjija we have not suggested the survival of an independent basic court, because we respect your arguments. We appreciate that at least 50,000 inhabitants should be on the territory of a basic court. Since Bor is the smallest according to the proposal, where there are about 50,000 inhabitants, we also appreciate your argument that rationalization must be carried out and that it must be reduced to some reasonable number of courts in the Republic. In our opinion, it would be good to have about 40 courts, not 34, because in that case we would be able to vote in favour of this bill. On the third hand, I was quoting the conclusions of So Vienna. In that SO, all parties and all committees voted in favour of these conclusions, which suggest the survival of the court in Vienna. The DS committees voted, the committees also voted from other parties present in the SO. Mr. Dusan Jovanovic is the president of So Vienna. He signed these conclusions regarding the preservation of the court in Vienna. It is not true that we are in power in these municipalities and that our motivation is to preserve these courts. So we've made all the arguments and there's no answer to those arguments, so we have no intention, Madam Minister, to report further on these amendments. It's not our intention to do some kind of obstruction, we said everything we had, we talked about all these amendments for five days, and we know that these ideas have a majority in the National Assembly, and that's what Mr. Laszlo Varga was talking about on Friday, I think. All the opposition parties supported these amendments, and the SRS, and the DSS, and the LDP, the LDP had amendments very much similar to our amendments, and the SNS supported these amendments. So, we have a majority for these amendments, and that's very strange, because I would remind you, Madam Minister, that, according to my information, it only happened once since 2001 that one law had not been given to most in the National Assembly. It would be very, very bad if this set of judicial laws didn't get a majority in the National Assembly in voting day. I want, unequivocally, once again, to repeat that if our amendments are not accepted, which we think are rational and do not disturb the whole system of judicial reform in Serbia, then we will be in the hall in the voting day, but we will not insert the cards and there will be no voting quorum, because this is our only chance. I have to say it a few days in advance, and it's not the first time we've said it from this place, so there's no confusion after that, and then it doesn't lose the entire National Assembly on how it will turn out, in the voting day, that you don't have a majority for this bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. I hope that in the coming days, until the voting day, there will be a solution – or that these amendments and some other amendments to the opposition that are also rational, or that you withdraw this bill and try to find some common language about it, because before you refer to the assembly procedure, and that I talked about the other day, there was no consultation with the coalition partners, and that is not good with one of these significant draft laws. I specifically stated that this version was published on October 28th. Some earlier versions were in circulation and we talked about these earlier versions, but this most radical version was put on the site on October 28th, and on October 30th it was already adopted by the Government in terms of the proposal. So there was no room and no time to talk. Not you, personally, of course, but the Ministry and the Government didn't consider it important to talk to coalition partners about the proposed solutions, and that's why the ministry is in this situation. So I said this once again, correctly, not as a threat, but to know what you can expect. We've always been correct, we'll still be. I urge you now to say, please, Madam Minister, that this law will be passed in the day of the vote. If you do not have an answer to this question of my own, then I would ask you best to try to find some common language and that these amendments and some other amendments to the opposition be accepted, in order to vote this law and a whole set of judicial laws, because they are good, modern, in accordance with European practice; I only ask you to increase a little, not to a large extent, the number of courts and public prosecutors envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9468	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Mrs. Radeta, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pastor, you are indeed heartily defending the amendments you have submitted with your colleagues and, in any case, when it comes to this amendment, you have, undeniably, the support of the SRS Parliamentary Group and we will certainly vote in favour of this amendment. What is truly amazing, Mrs. Malovic, is your tenacity. You do not realize that it is obvious now that you will not have a majority for this bill and you will have great responsibility, because we have spent here, or we will spend, five or six days, who knows how much, in the debate on the draft of this law in particular, and you do not want to accept the best and most rational solution that we have proposed on the first day, which is to withdraw this law from the procedure. It's more rational and normal for you than it is for you to get into a situation where your law isn't passed. Of course, we have no regrets that this law will not pass you, it is good to do so, but, in any case, I want to repeat what I have said several times, and this is an invitation to all MPs who have submitted amendments to this bill to remain in their position in the day of voting. Because no one here said they were withdrawing the amendment, all the colleagues from this place were heartily defending their amendments, explaining them, with additional facts as to what was written in the explanation of the amendment. For the sake of the public, again, because of voters, because of the people from the places where these amendments apply, I keep saying that I expect from colleagues who have submitted amendments to vote in favour of their amendments, i.e. to vote against the bill's proposal in the voting day, if they truly want to help their fellow citizens and if they sincerely represent them in this House. If that is not the case, then you will have problems explaining to the citizens from where you came from why you deceived them and why you claimed that it is necessary to adopt your amendments, and in the day of voting you act as if the amendment was not even there, you vote in favour of the law and we have a problem that will be faced throughout Serbia. In all these laws in the area of justice, the most prominent two problems are lustration, which you predict for all judges and all public prosecutors, of course, and the problem with this network, so-called. A network of judicial authorities. I will, in two sentences, return to these amendments by my colleagues Zoran Nikolic and Zoran Bortic, when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce with what is proposed, based in Valjevo. Since we have different amendments here, you, colleague Bortic, have suggested that the seat of this court, the Court of Commerce, be in Šapco, and the Government has proposed to be in Valjevo. It appears that the more comprehensive amendment tabled by counterpart Zoran Nikolic, who has proposed to remain the Commercial Court in Valjevo and to form a business court in Sapac. In this way, the administrative division in the districts would also be satisfied, and it certainly is necessary to resolve it that way. In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of these two amendments and of the amendment of counterparts Varge Lassla, Pastor Balint and Elvira Kovac, as well as of all other amendments, it is said that the government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the draft law contains almost identical solutions regarding the seats and areas of jurisdiction of economic courts in relation to the applicable law, in respect of trade courts. "In addition, the government has accepted amendments by MPs who have proposed the education of judicial units of economic courts in all cities in the Republic of Serbia, which corresponds to the needs of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. This solution is more comprehensive than the one contained in the amendment proposing the establishment of a special economic court." Madam Minister, you owe a few answers here to a few questions about this explanation of yours. First of all, you are referring to an existing network law, now, of trade courts. Coli Krasic reminded you that we have proposed, too, by amendment, that you do not cross business courts into trade courts. We had then, of course, an appropriate explanation, that I'm not going back to it now. You didn't accept it then, I don't mean personally, but again the government, and the same or similar congregation majority. Here, we have now come to this point, and it is not the first time that the amendments of the MPs of the SRS Group are, over a time, contained either in amendments and amendments to some law or in a proposal for a new law, as is now the case with economic courts. So the answer that we expect from you is: why, when it comes to business courts, do you hold the existing networks of courts so strictly, and when it comes to basic, or municipal and district courts and public prosecutors, you reduce the number of courts by over a table in municipality headquarters? What does reform mean to you in one area and what in the other? In basic, or courts of general practice, you go to drastic rationalisation, predicting over 500 courts that will be jobless; there will be many more employees in the judiciary. So you shut down, shut down over a hundred courts, and, on the other hand, when it comes to a network of business, or trade courts, you stick to the strictly existing state. There's something obviously wrong. Furthermore, you say the current situation meets the needs of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. What economic development, Mrs. Malovic? What is going on in Serbia, what is this economy that is developing in Serbia? Fortunately for Serbia's economy to develop, there would be less need to expand these courts, i.e. by expanding the network of economic courts. You know, a lot of corporate layoffs aren't just about work disputes. Speaking of working disputes, a while ago, while one of my colleagues was speaking here, I received a message from a lady who said that the work dispute had been running for seven years in the Belgrade court. Case files on appeal went to the district court and was told to wait at least a year for a complaint. This is a working dispute related to Kamenolo "Kievo". So, I mentioned this by the way, because I just got a message like that. When it comes to economic courts, why did I say it was necessary to accept these amendments and expand the network of economic courts? First of all, because of the great layoff of the workers, who will certainly lead the disputes in front of the economic court. So, not just work disputes. Furthermore, within these courts there will be, unfortunately, and there are many economic disputes related to criminal privatisations, bankruptcy, parts of the bankruptcy mafia, abuses in company bankruptcy, when it comes to company liquidation. You know, and the citizens of Serbia know it best, they feel it on their skin, how much crime, exactly, is in this area, and you don't want to define a sufficient number of courts within economic courts, so that these problems and these disputes can be resolved as quickly and as effectively as possible. If you do not accept amendments from MPs when it comes to economic courts, you will contribute to the ineffectiveness of such inefficient economic courts. Simply, such disputes are being held in commercial courts that very often a long period is necessary, a assembly of various skills, due to insight into the business books, because of the art of immovable property, and all of this should be as close as possible to the headquarters of these economic operators who will be and who are the subject of economic disputes. Instead, by accepting these amendments, you contribute to the efficiency of the work of the courts, you have no hearing of what we have been telling you for days. We thought that at least when it comes to this group of courts, you would have understanding, precisely because you stated that this network fits the needs of economic development. If you really cared about economic development, you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, would have created conditions for economic disputes to be resolved more efficiently, faster and in the interest of those people who were employed or employed by these economic operators. But you have no hearing for these people, as you have no hearing for judges, nor for prosecutors, nor for witches, nor for employees of the judiciary, nor for jurors. All I've listed are people who will lose their jobs, just because you, Mrs. Malovic, are persistent. You sit here, you listen to us, I guess, and occasionally answer a question, but we have no use for it when you keep holding on to what someone told you has to be like this. Even you will not accept a fact that is more than obvious – that this law will not pass in your voting day. Then you sat there, together with us, for a few days without any effect, we spent, or we'll spend, five or six days on this bill and eventually it'll be "free paint". If that doesn't happen, Mrs. Malovic, you still have time, withdraw the laws from the procedure. If you do not want all the laws, it is your view of reforms in the field of justice, as a representative of the Government, you represent it, we have made our remarks and we will issue it, but, when it comes to the Bill on Seats and Areas of the Courts and Public Prosecutors, Mrs Malovic, you do not have a positive attitude and a good number of colleagues from the ruling assembly majority. I repeat, if all fellow MPs who have submitted the amendments are consistent and if they really want their fellow citizens to present themselves as the real representatives they have sent to this Parliament, if not only do these three colleagues, whom Mr Balint Pastor said would not vote for these laws, but also the other six-seven, as many as there are, who have submitted amendments to this bill, you have no chance of passing this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9470	On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9471	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, is precisely on the amendments of Mr Miletic Mihajlovic and Mr Srdjan Milivojevic, to how seriously you have approached the examination of this law, because here we have two identical amendments. I will quote Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic's amendment, where he says: "A business court in the Kingdom, for the territory of the municipalities of Aleksandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Trstenik, Cicicevic, Vrnjačka Banja, Raška, Tutin, Sjenica and the towns of Kraljevo, Novi Pazar and Kruševac, with the judicial unit in Novi Pazar, for the municipalities of Sjenica, Tutin and the town of Novi Pazar, and for the judicial unit in Kruševec, for the area of the municipalities of Aleksandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Trstenik, Cicivac and the town of Kruševac. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. '"I quote Mr Srdjan Milivojevic's amendment. "A business court in the Kingdom, for the territory of the municipalities of Alexandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Vrnjačka Banja, Raška, Sjenica, Trstenik, Tutin, Cicevic and for the towns of Kraljevo, Kruševac and Novi Pazar, with the judicial unit in Kruševec, for the territory of the municipalities of Aleksandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Trstenik, Cicevic and for the town of Kruševac, and for the judicial unit in Novi Pazar, for the territory of the municipalities of Sjenica, Tutin and for the town of Novi Pazar. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal." I wonder, was it necessary for a majority partner in the ruling coalition to be right and its amendment to be accepted? What about the amendment submitted by the SPS MP anyway? This isn't the first example. We have already heard that there is a huge disagreement among members of the ruling coalition in the network of courts, and this is also shown by the amendments they have tabled. I think that here, first of all, there was a personal connection to the Secretary of State, Mr. Homen, and Mr. Homen, without looking at the essence and identity of the second amendment, gave you the recommendation to accept Mr. Milivojevic's amendment, not Mr. Miletic Mihajlovic's amendment. To return now to the amendment that I have submitted. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to delete the words "Alexandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Trstenik, Cicevic and Kruševac" in Article 5, and after point 17, a new point 18 is added, which reads "A business court in Kruševec, for the territory of the municipalities of Aleksandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Trstenik, Cicevic and the town of Kruševac". As early as March 2002, the DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment requiring Kruševac, i.e. the Rasinski District to receive the seat of a commercial court in the municipality of Kruševac, for the municipalities of Brus, Cicevic, Varvarin, Trstenik, Aleksandrovac and the town of Kruševac, now. However, because the DSS MPs were then expelled from the Assembly, we were not in a position to justify the justification of this amendment. I am pleased to now have the opportunity to explain the validity of this amendment, for the simple reason that Rasinski's administrative district is one of the few districts that, above all, has a balanced external trade balance and great economic potential. I would like to say that 25 large companies, 50 medium-sized enterprises, 1.525 small enterprises and 8,000 shops exist in the Rasin district. These are the data I received from the regional Chamber of Commerce in Kruševec, the regional Chamber of Commerce for Rasinski County. The fact is that 63% of all cases which are subject to a commercial procedure at the Commercial Court in the Kingdom are, exactly, from the territory of the Rasin County. This shows the justification for the Rasinski district to get its seat, not the units of the economic court, but the economic court. I'd like to mention something else. There is a building in the town of Kruševec – an administrative centre, where there is a wave of situated republican institutions, close to the district court, municipal court, district and municipal public prosecutor's office, as well as a court for violations and tax administrations. This facility is equipped with a complete inventory necessary for the functioning of the court. So, Rasinski County and Rasinski County headquarters, the town of Kruševac, has a fully equipped facility, both material and technical conditions for the existence of a commercial court. I note that the proposed changes are in the interest of all the businessmen of the Rasin district, that we will thus enable them, above all, to save time, to ease the dissatisfaction of the businessmen of the Rasin County, for the reasons that they have so far had to travel to the Kingdom, to the Commercial Court in the Kingdom. This is, for example, if you have an economic operator based in a sub-region place, for example, in Brzec, about 140 kilometers from the Court's seat. So it requires both material costs and a waste of time. I think this request is completely justified. I'll mention one more thing. In the municipalities of the Rasin district, all the political parties represented in this Parliament are in power, more or less, and we have MPs from the territory of the Rasin district who, more or less, belong to all the political parties sitting here in Parliament. At the Strategic Council, which was organised by the head of the Rasin Management District, all the presidents of the municipalities and all the MPs from the Rasin district territory agreed to launch an initiative to get the business court based in Krusevec. Not to owe more, Mrs Malovic, I think in this way a large part of the MPs is caused by suspicion if we have different arches for an identical amendment. What happens the next day, when we start re-election judges? Are we going to look, first of all, at the favor of certain political entities towards certain judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9472	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the colleague explained this amendment in detail, and we of the SRS believe that these are huge territories and a massive economic court planned for the area of the municipalities of Alexandrovac, Brus, Varvarin, Vrnjačka Banja, Raška, Sjenica, Trstenik, Tutin, Ćicicovac and the cities of Kralje and Novi Pazar, with the judicial unit in Novi Pazar, for the territory of the municipalities of Sjenica, Tutin and for the town of Novi Pazar. I must note that in practice this kind of territory will not be able to be provided by one court, as well as a even schedule of courts, especially when it comes to commercial courts, now trade courts. It's a huge territory. There's a large number of judges who need to work in one court. There is a big problem with the business space that will arise, and most importantly, there is a great distance between the place and the cities from the seat of the intended economic court in the King. This will cause great costs for citizens and thus the citizens will not be able to exercise their rights in a timely manner, as guaranteed by certain regulations. I would like to address you, Madam Chairman, that I have been informed that I have received requests from the President of the Municipal Court in the White Church, then, the Community of the Czech Republic – the Czech Republic of South Banat, from the White Church, the Romanian Community from Vrsac. These appeals and requests state that the Court of Justice in the White Church dates, counting on the application of certain legal norms in the municipality of the White Church, back in 1754, when they were courts of the military province, the regiment. It was the courts of the regiment. Then, in the White Church, the first time the Royal Court was established in 1872, there was also a district court. There was also a happy court, so that, after all, it would remain in 1963, the Municipal Court and it is constantly functioning on these premises until today. The White Church is a border area, with a length of about 100 km. In this area and in the municipality of Alibunar, most Romanians and Czechs live in our country. As a result, the great indignation of citizens and holders of judicial functions, especially national minorities, is in the light of Romania's national minority and the Czech national minority, which is the largest in Serbia on the territory of the Bela Church municipality. Most members of Romania's national minority live today in the municipality of Alibunar. That is where the municipalities are required, by courts and citizens to leave the Municipal Court in the White Church and Alibunar. Since Mr Pastor, the MP, pleaded, requested and requested, and also informed the Parliament and the president of the Assembly that he would not vote for this set of draft laws, especially when it comes to the territorial division of these municipal, county, economic and senior courts, as far as I am concerned, as the MP coming from the Southbanat County, I must also point out that I have an obligation on behalf of the voters of Slovakia and citizens living in the territory of Kovacica. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am also under obligation and the SRS is asking to leave the seat of the Municipal Court in Kovacica, because it is a municipality with the largest population of Slovak nationality, and you are well aware that the Slovak Republic first supported the independence and integrity of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Relations between the Slovak Republic and Serbia are on the rise and they are good. In addition, these relations should be developed in the future, and with one national party in Slovakia in good relations and back several years there were mutual exchanges of views and support. Therefore, the Municipal Court in Kovacica should remain, in the interest of the citizens, in the interest of the national minority of Slovakia, and a number of members of the national minority and citizens of Romania live in this area. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other day I reminded the National Assembly, and this time I ask the Chairman, Mrs. Comic, vice-president of the National Assembly, to request a notice from the Privatisation Agency on which reception was made by Munjic Snezana, as chairman of the Executive Board of the Privredna Banka in Pančevo. According to the data that I have, which was delivered to me by workers from that economic bank, Mrs. Munjic Snježana is for this year, i.e. During 2008, she received 5,325,000,00 dinars, or, only for January, she received a million dinars. Kavaja Svetlana – 3,584,000, as vice president of the Executive Board of the Business Bank in Pančev, Pejčić Nenad – 2,965,000, as a member. Other members of this executive board, Đuric Vesna from Belgrade – 774,000, Nenad Urosevic from Belgrade – 1,035,000, Nadica Mihajlović – 774, Marija Pantelic 774,000, Marija Mitic from Belgrade – 905,000. So, everyone's from Belgrade, no one's from Panchev, no one's from Southbanat County. Please, the question is, where does it come from that the members of the Executive Board should come from to rob Pancheva Business Bank? Who let this happen? In this letter I received, workers say that the National Bank of Serbia has punished the president of the Executive Board and its deputy and members for receiving so much money, with a president of 1.500,000 dinars, deputy chairman of the Executive Board -- 1,000 dinars. I'm looking for a notice. Did they pay for this? Secondly, given that they did not comply with the orders of the National Bank of Serbia and the Office for Payments, I call on members of the internal affairs authorities, the Criminal Administration in Panchev, to enter the Economic Bank, to request a report from the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia and to inform citizens, and to take appropriate measures, and those who took the money to return the money. So said the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic, when it came to Kristo. He said to pay back and resign. So here's another example. This Mrs. Lightning has passed, almost, and Krishta. It's a million dinars, if all of this is true what we got. Please, if she received a million dinars, then she is indeed a recordr in this regard – in one month to receive a million dinars. They need to pay back, this isn't good, this isn't morale, and it has to get in the way of this kind of lawlessness. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll allow me, Madam Chairman, I'd just like to ask you one question, next question. I'd like to draw your attention to Azotar and Pancheva. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've all been elected here by the citizens. When it comes to Panchevo, Panchevo is a special case. What does Panchevo look like? Panchevo was the largest industrial centre in Vojvodina and among the largest in Serbia. He had a gross product bigger than the whole of Montenegro. Panchevo had the first Utva plane factory, with 7,000 employees. Today, there is nothing from the plane factory and the workers of the Utva plane factory are out of work, and in this new aircraft factory, "Lola Utva", which was bombed in 1999, works 120 workers. So there's about 7,000 Utve workers left without a job. Pancevo had the first brewery in the Balkans, which was founded and built in 1722. It's privatized by the tycoon and the tycoons have torn it apart, destroyed it. That way, about 300 workers were out of work recently. Panchevo had the largest glass maker in the Balkans. Now there were several dozen workers left, and there were thousands of workers, who were out of work, on the street, and their families. Panchevo had the first nitrogen fertiliser factory, which employs thousands and thousands of workers. Today, Azotara Panchevo became a private company, although the state here is co-owner. But what happened? People came, bought "Azotara" in 2006, and made a deal to invest 20m euros in production funds without firing workers in five years and not being able to sell anything more than 5% of the value of the capital they buy. What's going on? Recently, the management and consortium of Azotare Panchevo sold, demonstrated, I would say, stole a new factory of workers and citizens of Panchev and Serbia, which was only meant to be released into production. They disarmed that new factory, boarded trains and sold abroad. Imagine, "Azotar" was bought for 13m euros, and eight million finished products were in the factory, to sell "Carbamid", which was one of the "Azotara" plants last year for 32m euros. In that case, the Privatisation Agency also intervened. What's the problem with the Privatisation Agency? The privatisation agency is making a new decision, which says -- of those 32m euros, you will be obliged to invest in the 10m-euro production process. Where's the 20, what about them? There isn't. Second, what kind of program does the Privatisation Agency make? In three wars to pay it and to pay it on a jury account, in dinar equivalent, 10 million euros? However, the Agency makes a mistake and does not comply with the basic contract. The agency is further prolonging in three years, so that they can pay this amount of 3,300,000 euros in three wars. The day before yesterday, i.e. On Friday, about 550 workers were out of work, as employers fired the workers of "Azotara", 550 of them are out of machinery, out of power. Ladies and gentlemen, it's good what Mr. Tadic said yesterday – let the workers defend their jobs. Please, our workers don't know they're attacking, but our workers know they're defending themselves. We order workers to defend themselves, to block the factory, and to take the management before themselves – to file accounts, and that the Government, the Agency... (President: Mr. MP, it's 10 minutes and 30 seconds, please bring the exhibition to an end, you have used the time available to your MP's group. Just two sentences to say. The Agency must correct, or break this contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9474	People's MP, thank you. The time available to your MP group has been used. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Jasmina Milosevic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 5, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan J. Nikolic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9475	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when I spoke of a set of judicial laws in principle, I made three main shortcomings in this set of laws. The first shortfall is the passage of the term "Autonomic province", not "autonomous provinces", which is a violation of the Constitution, in Article 182(2), where literally the Republic of Serbia is said to have two provinces in its composition. Another lack is the weakness of individual judicial institutions in the AP KIM territory. The third shortfall is the withdrawal of individual judicial institutions from the KIM territory. For all these shortcomings, on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group, I have intervened with amendments aimed at removing these shortcomings. When it comes to the first drawback, it is the passage of the term "Authonom province", not "autonomous provinces", these amendments have been accepted, and there has been a dilemma of whether it was a mistake or intention. The second is the weakness of individual judicial institutions in the KIM territory, which is a network of misdemeanor and basic courts. And here are the amendments that I submitted on behalf of the DSS Parliamentary Group and a somewhat improved network of these judicial institutions. Unfortunately, the third, most important flaw, that the Republic of Serbia is withdrawing individual justice institutions from the AP KIM territory, these amendments are not accepted. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of point 8, to delete the rest of the sentence after the word "Skrelig", adding a new point 17, which reads: "A business court in Kosovo Mitrovica, for AP KIM territory". The government's statement reads, "The government does not accept the amendment, because it believes that a more comprehensive solution to the Court of Commerce in Nis is to be responsible for the territory of AP KIM". This argument is not in line with the reasoning of the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law, as Article 5 of the Law states that the seats and areas of jurisdiction of commercial courts are regulated. "The proposed territorial organisation of economic courts is mostly identical with the territorial jurisdiction of existing trade courts." That the Constitution was harshly broken here, also says that the AP KiM in its composition no longer has an institution of economic court. Unlike AP KIM, the AP Vojvodina has five economic courts. Don't anyone think I have anything against such an organization, that the network of economic courts in both the AP Vojvodina and Serbia is too high, but it's impossible to explain this in terms of territorial organisation, that Vojvodina has five economic courts, one of which is in Novi Sad, for 13 municipalities, in Pancheva – for 9 municipalities, in Sombor – for 3 municipalities, in Sremska Mitrovica – for 7 municipalities and in Subotica, too, for 7 municipalities. The AP KIM has 30 municipalities, of which 6 with the majority Serb population, and I stress that the Republic of Serbia has normal payment traffic with AP KIM. I think these facts and these arguments speak quite enough, and for the fact that, on several occasions, a colleague of the Verica Radeta here has expressed suspicion in her intention, I think you should give an adequate answer as to why individual judicial institutions are withdrawing from the KIM. Madam Minister, I expect you, given the arguments and reasons put forward, to accept this amendment, because it is quite justified, and, on the other hand, I ask all the MPs from the AP KIM territory to accept this amendment, as well as all the parliamentary groups to vote on the day of voting for this amendment, because, otherwise, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sends a bad message to all those in KIM who recognise the Republic of Serbia and the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9476	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can see that there was also a reason why I asked to talk on Friday about the amendment of fellow Milentijevic, who was adopted by a government official. And then, and this morning, and now I will repeat, I have expressed not only my suspicion, but I would say, and my fear of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is actually going to do with AP KIM. You were well reminded by counterpart Milentijevic that in the principle debate and others within this set of laws, we had amendments and talked about the fact that in several draft laws, the government, instead of the "autonomous province", provided the "Autonomial province" in the bill. It is true that these amendments have been adopted, but the question is raised, I am once again asking it publicly – what was, in fact, the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia hidden? It is not possible to accept the fact, or not the fact, but the argument that it was some kind of printing error; these laws, or proposals, are also examined by the lecturers, as well as by the minister and anyone who has read the bill had to notice that there is no plural when it comes to autonomous provinces. We have been trying and trying to put this Parliament on the agenda since June, i.e. to convince the President of Parliament to put a motion for a resolution on problems and problem-solving at KIM on the agenda. Nearly half a year has passed, the government and the president of Parliament do not think that such a thing, namely that a concrete proposal by a group of MPs from three parliamentary groups is being put on the agenda, and in the meantime a lot has happened, and is still happening on KIM territory. I'm not going to mention now these crimes that happen almost daily, the murders of Serbian civilians, Serbs, old people who stayed on KIM territory. We talked about it, we also talked about that a part of the congregation's majority does not want local self-government in the KIM territory, so it was not accepted in RIK that mandates were returned to the municipality of Leposavic, i.e. to verify the already returned mandates of the SRS, as if there was something that was constantly going on, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, had some hidden intentions with KIM. We need to drive the government out of here to clean up, we need to know who it is that gives guidance and frameworks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this Parliament is not because, unfortunately, we were not in a position to discuss it. Of course, we are talking about it and we are taking every opportunity to talk about it, but we do not have an official position, we do not know the opinion of the ruling coalition in this Parliament, first of all, when it comes to the deployment of the Eulex mission. We've been saying that, we've been talking for days, months, and tomorrow they announce the deployment of the Eulex mission. I am convinced that it is the opposite of the congregation's majority, or most of the MPs in this House, but we, officially, have not been asked that. We are reading the newspapers, looking through the Internet, to find out what special conditions our government representatives have accepted, we ask them – in whose name they have accepted, what consequences will be for the Serbs in KIM after what they are planning to do and what they are already doing on the ground, in KIM, we ask them – will this be what counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic here read as a report from the European Commission, which says that co-operation with The Hague tribunal is not an obstacle to Serbia's entry into the EU, but that it is some co-operation with this quasirepublic of Kosovo?- I'm sorry. That's what MPs need to talk about and talk about. This is what should be the number one issue in Serbia today. It is a big economic crisis, it is a problem of social misery, it is a problem of daily gatherings, it is a problem of daily job layoffs, but the president of the country said yesterday that the main problem in the future in Serbia is to preserve jobs. He didn't explain how. A lot of people got fired today, regardless of his message. It is true that jobs should be kept safe, but jobs must be kept by the state, the government of the Republic of Serbia. New jobs must be provided by Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, but there is no bigger problem in Serbia today than solving the KIM problem. The issue of our country's territorial integrity, as well as every country in the world, is probably a priority over the priorities of every government, and this should be a priority for these governments as well. Let's go back to this law and all these amendments that the minister, Mrs. Malovic, has accepted so far. But I must remind, again for the sake of the public, for the sake of the Serbian citizens who want to return to KIM, who expect their country to create conditions for them to return there, but not to pass as these two old men who were killed three days ago, so it was a problem for their bodies to drive, to really determine the reasons for their death, because the Cypriots tried to portray it as a natural death. They do not want Serbs to return to KIM in this way, but rather want the state of Serbia to allow them to live normally in their Serbia, their kiM and their hearths. Instead, what do we have? We had a proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia that there was only one court on the territory of the entire KiM, that the court had its head office in Kosovo Mitrovica. It is good that the amendment of fellow Milentijevic was accepted, so we will now have courts in Gracanica, Kosovo County, Gorazdevec, Pecki District, Ranilug, Kosovo-Pomorava County, Strpc, Prizren County and Kosovo-Mitrovar County, Kosovo Mitrovica. We have finally come to the conclusion that the government will no longer accept amendments relating to KIM. I would like you, Mrs Malovic, to give us some too much explanation – why do you not, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, accept this amendment? What does reason mean to you – the government does not accept the amendment for the reason it believes that a more comprehensive solution is that the Business Court in Nis is also responsible for the territory of AP KIM? Anyway, the Nis Business Court covers a lot of municipalities, but that doesn't matter, that's the second part of the story, related to jurisdiction in Nisaw County. The economic court, which, as a trade court for KIM, had been in the King so far, was somehow closer, not only territorially, but for the reasons that land books, and home, books born, dead, etc., from many municipalities where Serbs cannot live, especially where they cannot exercise power, from many districts, moved, among other things, to the Kingdom, but it was then. Now we have to, not just further away from the courts, but from any of the KIM organs, but from spreading a network of organs on KIM. No one can mention that it's more money, that it costs the state more, etc. As much as it costs, we are obliged to institutionally support citizens, first of all, Serbs, and other citizens who want to return to KIM, or who want to live, who remain in KIM territory and who want to stay there. Whatever benefits they have, or have not, from the Business Court of Kosovo Mitrovica, we need these people to create psychological support, to know that they have schools there, both primary and secondary, and colleges, and courts, and prosecutors, and economic courts, and that people are really working in those institutions, where possible, that the state is doing everything to make it more and more possible for that network to spread, and not for the state to hide behind some incomparable arguments or to cost it. Or, perhaps, Mrs Malovic, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do you have no intention of developing KIM in a proper manner?- I'm sorry. Maybe you don't think you need an economic court there for that reason? You must be aware of that, Mrs Malovic, that KIM is an integral part of Serbia. No move, no letter, no government of the Republic of Serbia, no Parliament, has the right and must show that this is not the case and to question that fact. What exactly are you planning? I'm afraid we won't know until it's too late. You'd better send a message to your colleagues in the government to come here, talk about the KIM issues from all aspects. What's your jurisdiction is to accept this amendment, regardless of who gave you the order not to accept it. You have this obligation, Mrs Malovic, historical and national, and because of the function you perform, I suppose, and because of your name, because I think it is important for each of us to bear our name and name with honor and pride, and whoever, in any way or in any way, in any case, in any case, in any case, in a word, in a sentence, in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, on the territorial integrity of Serbia, cannot have any honor or honesty, this will be judged by history.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9478	National MP Jovan Palalic. The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9479	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is really important this debate on the seats and areas of the economic courts and should be put in the context of the overall change, as it is said here, of the network of courts, which is now on the agenda, i.e. Proposal for a Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. It is this case that shows the contradiction and inconsistency of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it entered into this reform, which has caused such controversy in the public. We have, for most of the amendments to the proposal for this law, where the amendment intervened in Article 5, when they were rejected, been given the reason that the current solutions, i.e. Decisions in force on a positive basis, which have, in fact, been applied and implemented in this proposal of the law. On the one hand, we have a radical reform of the network of courts, when it comes to basic courts, and on the other hand, we have a conservation of the situation, when it comes to economic courts. I think it was better when it came in, regardless of our criticisms of these changes, that some facts and some circumstances were respected and accepted. And, that momentum that existed, when it came to the economic court from the earlier period, could now be amended and the circumstances respected and changed in light of the law relating to local self-government, especially this amendment submitted by my distinguished colleague Vladimir Milentijevic, who, with all aspects, is irrational and not in the state interest. I'm going to say first about some amendments and some illogical things that have now had to be corrected. You have cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, which are also under the Law on Local Self-Government cities, which have both basic and multiple courts and which are large economic centres, such as Kruševac, Smederevo, Sabac, and do not have economic courts. Regardless of the argument we heard here today, you had the headquarters of a commercial court in Valjev, which we believe should have an economic court, for the area of the Machuvan County and the town of Sapca. You have Požarevac, which is a much smaller city than Smederev, and where it is the seat of a commercial court, and you do not have an economic court in Smederev, which is both economical and in any other respect, and you have Kruševac, which my esteemed colleague, Misa Radulović, discussed, from 61% of the case in the Privreda Court in Kralje, precisely from Rasinski County. These cities are engines of the development of entire regions, and it was important that now, just when such a change has taken place, which, in our opinion, is wrong in basic courts, if already changed to the segment of municipal courts, enters the segment relating to economic courts, and not that this situation is being preserved, to maintain the existing situation and to explain that the refusal of amendments is now in this positive right. If the courage for reforms was shown, it must also be shown in the segment of economic courts, given that it is complementary and with changes in local self-government, and with regional development policy, because you have a situation that only these three large cities, Kruševac, Smederevo and Sabac, which have almost 400,000 inhabitants, cities with strong economy, with great potential in economy, will not have economic courts, because, after some momentum from some communist time, when strong party officials were in Valjevjevec, Pogorevec, other cities, the structure of economic courts. I think it would be good for the government to adopt an argument made by representatives and positions and opposition and to form economic courts in Krusevec and Smederev, and in Šapec. As for this amendment by my colleague Vladimir Milentijevic, who is extremely important, which is essential, which should send a message that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is keeping an eye on that there must be an economic court in the KIM area, that the government wants to show that business activity will also be more clearly defined, in general, by the government's economic policy towards the KIM area, it would be important to adopt it. Except for the word "intestinality," we didn't get any more detailed explanation. The economic court in Nis covers not only Nisavski County, but also covers the Toplički District, with the head office of the Prokuplje district, covers the Pyrotski District, with its headquarters in Piroth, and the entire area of KIM. Is that celery? Regardless of the capacity Nis has, can the Business Court in Nis cover this much space in quality and solve the items that arrive in the declared efficiency? When it comes to the idea that foreign investors and businessmen are dissatisfied with the judiciary, they primarily think about the situation in business courts, because they have the most difficult touch in their business and solve their problems through them. It is precisely the goal of facilitating businesses' communication and making them more efficient in economic courts. In addition to this amendment, which is important from the state point of view, we should accept it, I point out to the distinguished Minister Malovic that both Kruševac and Smederevo, and Sabac, as important centres in Serbia, should receive their economic courts, in addition to the economic courts in Valjevo, Pozarevec and Kralje. I urge these arguments to be respected. If it has already entered into these changes relating to basic courts, which we disagree with, but the government has shown here that there is a strategy, it is indeed for the surprise of the absence of a strategy for economic courts, so a message is sent, through an explanation of the refusal of amendments, that the state as it is now to remain. The preservation of the economic judiciary has been criticised by entrepreneurs of Serbia's economy and foreign investors, so it is something where we should make the most radical changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9480	Anyone else want a word? The SRS parliamentary group has taken advantage of the time. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 6, the amendment was submitted by MP Judita Popovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9481	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and MPs, the LDP has submitted an amendment to Article 6(1) of point 4 and has proposed that, apart from the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, another Court of Appeal, be established for the area of senior courts in Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Pancheva and Sremska Mitrovica, another Court of Appeal, and that is the Court of Appeal in Subotica, for the area of higher courts in Sombor and Subotica. We started for three reasons when we proposed this amendment. First of all, we came from Article 6(1) of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, because we felt that every citizen in this country had the right to a fair trial, within a reasonable period. We've also come from Article 32. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which also guarantees a fair trial, within a reasonable time. What about a reasonable time and a fair trial? There's no fair trial if you've been waiting for one court ruling for years. In fact, I was just saying that out of 26 municipal courts, only six courts were scheduled to take over their jurisdiction, six senior courts. I explained this by the fact that the basic courts are meant to be tried in small-value disputes, in criminal cases, where the penalty is reduced compared to those criminal proceedings which are in the jurisdiction of senior courts. So, in fact, six senior courts are taking over, mostly, the jurisdiction of 26 municipal courts. When we start from that assumption, then we come to a situation that only one court of appeals in Vojvodina will solve cases, decisions made by senior courts, and six senior courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. These six senior courts already bear the jurisdiction of 26 municipal courts, existing municipal courts. So we already have a very large number, which can't be seen at first sight, which will be solved by the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. I meant the verdicts, both criminal and litigious, and the other decisions that are in the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal. So we have a lot of work to do, a lot of work, but it was supposed to be only one court of appeals, and we don't see the real reason, a rational explanation of why this is done, especially because we are already unhappy with the work of the courts, the slowness of these courts. By suffocating and centralizing, I don't think we'll get a better solution and some more rapid work. Another reason, which, in fact, confirms that it was rightly our opinion that it was necessary to establish another court of appeal on the territory of Vojvodina, at least another court of appeal, is the tradition and importance of the Vojvodina judiciary, courts on the territory of Vojvodina, which have their own tradition and historical significance, some and over 200 years. If we already have that tradition, we have good judicial practice, why is it to end and why focus everything on a single court in Novi Sad, and leave the entire territory of Vojvodina absolutely uncovered, as far as the appeal is concerned? We have presented a number of arguments why we believe that Vojvodina, as an autonomous province, as a specific part of Serbia's territory, has the right to seek certain privileges, certain rights, certain tolerance and a different approach to its territory and its problem with courts, so I would not like to repeat ourselves. The third reason why we believe there should be at least one more court of appeal in the territory of Vojvodina is the cost. In this Government's proposal, the law notes that there is no need to provide additional resources to implement this law. We do not think so, because in the event that the Court of Appeal is established in Novi Sad, it means that a large number of judges from all over Vojvodina territory, and we assume that they will be taken care of and not only by judges from the territory of Novi Sad, will have to judge in Novi Sad, and when the territory of Vojvodina is looked at, it is not so small that these judges, which will have to do appeals on a daily basis, travel and return to their cities. This means that sooner or later these people will have to be provided with an apartment in Novi Sad. So these people must be provided with life, normal, regular, for them and their family. Therefore, it will already increase the costs of the appeal and that solution to establish only one appeals court for the territory of Vojvodina. In addition, the administration for the appeals court needs to be increased. It's not enough to just sum up all those administrations that had courts, and it's still being done by district courts in Vojvodina territory, and there are six of them, but it's going to take a new administration, precisely because these officers won't be able to travel daily to Novi Sad and back to their cities, where they came from and where they live in fact. What does that mean? That means we're going to have to hire people again, and we need to solve the status of those people who remain in county courts, which are still in place for now. When all these arguments are taken, and that's three, let's say, the strongest argument we could make in the explanation of our amendment, then we think it's necessary to allow the Vojvodina to, in addition to that one appeal court that's scheduled for Novi Sad, get at least one more. So we've been restrictive in our wishes because we think there are more good courts in the territory of the Vojvodina. There is, for example, the District Court in Zrenjanin, or the District Court in Panchev, which could also bear that burden of appeal, and then only the burden of all these courts that are now scheduled to judge as higher courts, under this law that is now on the agenda. Therefore, we remain with that amendment. We believe that the Government did not give a rational answer to it, nor a rational solution – only one appeal court on the territory of the province of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9482	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9483	This solution, proposed by the Government in Article 6. The bill is something that already exists in our regulations, regulations that were passed in 2002, which are not applied. There are supposed to be four appeals courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and what is mentioned in Article 6 is practically an existing normative solution. It is obvious that this amendment requires the formation of two appeals courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The amendmentr has used some of his reasons and some of his arguments, however, I believe that the main argument for the formation and establishment of the seat of the appeals courts, above all, should be the territorial layout and all that is gravitating those centres. So the Belgrade centre, which has the largest territory, for the appeal court, then Kragujevac, if I may say, is the central part of the forest, Nis covers KIM territory and that southeast part of Serbia, and Novi Sad includes, literally, the complete territory of the AP Vojvodina. If you take as a criterion the territorial timetable, away from the seat of the future Court of Appeals, it is impossible to calculate that it is mathematically precise mileage, because, probably, Negotin is far from Belgrade, so if it is the farthest relationship, then, if other appeals courts are taken, it will be seen that there is no distance, not counting what will be in Nis, related to KIM. I don't know exactly how much this territorial organization and the territorial spread of an appeal court can be tied to a trial within a reasonable period of time and the right to a fair trial. I really don't know how much this could be about, but we have a court, a court, which has a much bigger territorial spread, and that's, say, The Hague tribunal. There is no trial in The Hague tribunal within a reasonable period. At Vojislav Seselj, all possible deadlines for an expeditional trial have been violated; here, Maltena, the sixth year is at the end, five years and 10 months, and yet there is no first-degree verdict. In our legal system, there were once extremely good provisions on the trial within a reasonable period of time, and this was tied to the prosecution. It was about the relationship and how long detention can take, within what time the first degree verdict is due, and it's all about the length of the detention period, because detention is the measure which in the strictest way deprives the freedom of a man for whom there is all the time the presummation of innocence, so I don't know how much that story fits into an appeal court. But if there is, it would be very interesting to hear, and if there is any more serious argument, then we would have to change our criminal code, especially the provisions on how long detention can take. I think we have another far greater problem, which, unfortunately, this law cannot solve. Tonight, at 24 hours, UNMIK, or Eulex, also takes over all checkpoints and owns the administrative border at KIM. From what I hear, Eulex is taking over, and UNMIK is retreating. Remind Boris Tadic, as he said the poles are kept in jobs. Be careful, when DS wins, it's difficult for Serbia, remember, it's difficult for Serbia. I got out more of this to distract you. Why is it that we here, maybe the audiences act that way, have fun with a law like this, especially a law that the sparrows on the branch know is bad, that it can't live? But that's the kind of manipulation of the DS that we're dealing with at a given historical moment with peripheral things, so that those animals don't be treated here, but to let the river carry them, and then they'll get two more gray hairs, Boris Tadic, and they'll worry about how something happened to him beyond his will, his aspirations, his desires. The media will immediately begin to praise another successful victory of dear and beloved, beautiful Boris Tadic. We have not submitted any, in fact, but one amendment to Article 6. Mr. Petar Jojic submitted the amendment, the government accepted it, for a simple reason, which the amendment, by its argument, by the number of senior courts, areas of higher courts and territorial schedule, imposed that Užice and Cačak be attached to Kragujevac, as an appeal court. But I have to tell you that we are expressing dissatisfaction with this concept of law, this concept of law. We believe that, in addition to municipal, county, and Supreme Cassation Court, as courts of general jurisdiction, there may also be trade courts. It's not a problem with that administrative either, at the very least, although the district courts and the Supreme Cassation Court could probably take over a lot of jurisdiction of the administrative court, because there are two levels. The administrative acts of the state authorities shall be brought before the Supreme Cassation Court, and if there is a possibility of having a administrative dispute against the authorities which resolve in the administrative procedure on the rights and obligations of citizens and their law-based interests, it shall be the lower level, above all, of the authorities of territorial autonomy, local self-government, if there is a possibility to conduct a administrative dispute, this may all end before the District Court. We believe that there may be room in the existing organisation to change the jurisdiction of individual courts, with the corresponding change in material legislation, that this is something that is optimal for the Republic of Serbia, with respect for certain specificities that need to be adopted in order to make the legal system, i.e. the judicial system work. Anyway, I must draw your attention now, gentlemen of the Parliament, as you will have this mandatory reading on Friday, to see that there is a gap between what we are now discussing and what the Government is proposing for 2009. Not for Friday. ) It doesn't matter, but in 2009, the budget. (From Hall: January 9th) On January 9th? Well, it won't, then it's my glory, it can't, St. Stefan, then it's not working, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it can't, it When it's not working today, it won't work. Now let's see what the smart people have come up with. That's a split-up 5. In that section, we have 5.1, so it's all done with 516. Of course, this is where the existing judicial authorities' organisation is held, because all of this on the 'Kukovdan', the first of January 2010, will come into force, i.e. it will start to apply. We have within division 5, especially the judicial authorities and there are only two and a half billion dinars, and then we have the Supreme Court, where there will be 545 million dinars, so we have the administrative court, though, we have no salary, we have material costs and some equipment – 16.6 million. Then we've got appeals courts, there's going to be 476 million and something else. It's to complete the equipment of appeals courts in these four places. Now, we have the State's Major Prosecutors. At the D.A.'s Council, they planned 10 salaries and 11 months for material expenses. At the High Court Council, too. With the State Council of Prosecutors - 37 million, and with the Supreme Council of the judiciary, 66 million dinars are planned for next year only for the body, but within the judicial authorities. By reason, they also conceal the High Council of Justice. So in 2009, we'll have double organs. By the way, he's an interesting split of 5. It starts with some aggregate data, which doesn't show what it's for, and here we have the Mediation Centre, so the Justice Center for School, so we have special means for protected witnesses. You know, you're gonna have to think this through, because we have witnesses from associates acting like businessmen, with the security of the state. A man deals in business, and security is given to him by the state. Now tell me, what is the difference between, say, such an associate witness, with state security, compared to the witness of fellow worker Boris Tadic? Boris Tadic is also an associate witness, and he is doing some work and also has state security. These guys are guarded by cops, and this one's guarded by cobras. Otherwise, it's the only part we have in the Army. You must, soldiers, know, first of all, officers, next year you won't have a warm meal. Sutanovac concluded that you eat a lot for a warm meal, that it is the cost of the state and that you will not have a warm meal. It's that marenda, survival, you learned that from those from Dayton, Ohio. Modern satellite and space weapons have been studied by scratching frogs and snakes, teaching them to bake it on a quiet fire and it's very good quality. Please, honourable citizens, when DS suggests something, be careful, it's a bad thing. It's mine to warn you in time. Whether you accept it or not, it's up to you. It's mine to warn you, because it would be very embarrassing for me to know something without telling the citizens, so that someone would meet me and say, "Why aren't you ashamed, you knew, and you didn't warn us in time?" I'm especially saying this because of those who always, after five days of elections, come to me and say, "And now I'm wrong and I'm voting for DS." Of course, I throw them right out and say, "To Boris, what are you coming to me now, so you're telling me? ". I don't want to talk, but I'm warning you in time, when you stab a pen, take care where you're going to stab, and if you see Boris Tadic, tell him to withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9484	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Srdjan Spasojevic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, has submitted an amendment, hoping to accept this rational solution. So, in Article 7 paragraph 1), at the end of the text, the words are added: "by having judicial units in the Kingdom for the area of misdemeanor courts in Kragujevac, Čačka, Kruševec, Novi Pazar, Gornji Milanovac, Raška, Trstenik and Sjenica, and in Užica, for the area of criminal courts in Užica, Požega and Prepolje". In the same article, in point 2), at the end of the text, the words are added, "by the fact that the Department of Nis may have a judicial unit in Zajecar, for the area of criminal courts in Zajecar and Negotin, and the judicial unit in Leskovec, for the area of infringement courts in Leskovec, Vrana, Kosovo Mitrovica and Prokuplje". Explanation. To the proposed additions of the said member, I believe that the urgency of the Major Infringement Court department in Kragujevac and Nis will be significantly better, given that in the cities of Kraljev, Zajecar and Leskovac there have been even greater violations in the second-degree procedure. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the area covered by the King's Violation Council is large, then, that a large number of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija were moved to this area, as well as a large number of refugees from other parts of the former SFRY. Finally, I note that the same draft law for basic courts provides that they may have judicial units in individual cities, so I see no reason not to do the same with the departments of the higher criminal court. So, we've had days here to discuss basic, higher, appeals courts, what solutions have been found. I think, according to the system of automation, it also wants to be done with misdemeanor courts. I think the bill promoter has come up with a hasty solution when it comes to mistrials, for the simple reason that they are infringing courts, i.e. Disputes that are conducted, life-long, everyday, which is an extremely large number, so there is no need for such a network of courts to be introduced in criminal courts. The full centralization of the judiciary is also applied to the network of these misdemeanor courts, which is completely wrong. I think that in Serbia we should fight for the decentralisation of government, and we should not introduce centralised through these things, because it is not good, for the government itself, and for the citizens of Serbia, who, because of this, will have certain difficulties in defending their interests, therefore, when they have a misdemeanour. They will have a problem – how it all happens, given that the distance from the crimes is also extremely large and it is absolutely absurd to express it in this way. Thus, such an organisation of a higher criminal court is not good, which will soon be shown in practice. This team before the same law provides for the establishment of a higher court of law, which territory is covered by those departments, or which first-degree courts will cover. This means that all cases which will be handled by first-degree courts for violations, according to the complaint, either by the defendant or by the applicants for the initiation of the infringement, will be referred to Belgrade and then distributed to the departments. It is a long and unnecessary path, especially when it is considered that both a valid and a new law on violations foresees that a solution to the offence, in certain cases, can be executed before its right to do so. When the first-degree authority decides that a solution to the offence has to be carried out before the jurisdiction, it is required that the appeal of the defendant, together with the case files, be delivered to the second-degree court, to the higher court of law, within 24 hours, counting on the time when the appeal was received. A senior criminal court is required to decide by appeal and deliver its decision to the first-degree infringement authority within 48 hours, counting on the hours of receipt of the case, that, by sending the case to a higher infringement of the court, then in some of the formed departments, the deadlines prescribed by those legal provisions, and we are sure that they will not. Such an organisation of a second-degree infringement authority, i.e. a higher criminal court, will significantly slow down the infringement procedure, which will, in the end, reflect the urgency and effectiveness of the solution to the case of a higher criminal court and its formed departments. This team before, given that the applicable laws prescribed short limitation deadlines, one year – for relative obsolescence and two years – for absolute obsolescence. The King’s Council for Violation, in particular, in its long-standing work, showed exceptional results, so the question is rightly raised, given the huge inflow of the case – in 2005, 5,458 cases were received, in 2006, 6,758 cases, in 2007, 6,944 cases, then the fact that this larger covers 15 municipalities of Raško and Rasinski County, does not the existing solution seem to be a mistake? We believe that a proposal should be made in the direction of amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, etc. So once again, when it comes to misdemeanor courts, these solutions will make it very difficult for the courts to make themselves available to the citizens. I say, daily violations are both in traffic and in other violations, and without any need, by automation, solutions have been made to the basics, more and more of these regular courts, as well as trade courts. In the end, I believe that this solution is not rational, economical and does not provide greater urgency in solving second-degree cases. In addition, the Kingdom’s Council for Violations has a certain business space, and it should be taken into account the fact that this larger coverage also covers municipalities, or courts for violations with a multinational composition of the population. I'm afraid all of this will be lost by forming a department only in Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, and in particular all of this will be badly reflected when it comes to the efficiency of the court. I believe that the minister and the government had to have an understanding for one such amendment, because the amendment was submitted to fix this law, that at least when it comes to criminal courts, one reasonable solution was made, and not, as I said, that it would be done by automation. However, there was more room for tolerance, not that, by not accepting this amendment, a vast area of disabling itself, to make the procedure more difficult, due to the deadlines of limitations that are extremely short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9486	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9487	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic is an amendment that more favourably solves the problems of infringement courts in the area of a large number of municipalities. If his amendment were to be adopted, in any case, we would have had a more effective functioning, in the application of this law, compared to the departments, and also the Council for Infractions in Kragujevac. What is important and what should be mentioned is – what is characteristic of Kragujevac? For Kragujevac, it is characteristic that judges from the Kragujevac District Court do not respect the law, unlike all judges in the Republic of Serbia who acted and decided on complaints from the SRS over the kidnapped mandates. In Kragujevac, 10 were kidnapped, in Kniæ five, in Lapovo three. Who is the head of this judicial institution in Kragujevac? It is Mr. Miroljub Tomic, known for having dared, with these judges who have decided on SRS complaints, to kidnap the SRS' mandates. It is known that in all Serbia, dozens of courts have acted in the same cases and that judges who have tried all over Serbia have made fair decisions, in accordance with the Law on Local Elections. Only this powerful man in Kragujevac, Mr. Miroljub Tomic, who claims to be the president of the Kragujevac-based appeals court, will we follow this if this set of laws is passed, did otherwise. We will see if it will be a reward for his successful work on resolving these cases when it comes to the mandates of the SRS. Judges and prosecutors and the professional public are terrified of how it is possible for the Kragujevac District Court to bypass the Law on Local Self-Government, violate it, violate the Constitution and thus kidnap the mandates of the SRS. Is such judges a place in the judiciary, if you have 99% of judges who decide and make decisions in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government? Therefore, no one can now take the right not to respect uniform court practice. How will this decision of the District Court relating to the SRS' parliamentary mandates in the City Assembly in Kragujevac be interpreted in case of these 10 terms, in Knic for five and in Lapovo for three? Will the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court Department be able to put this somewhere in court? Will this be a case law, or will judicial practice be a uniform practice of 99% of judges and judges in the Republic of Serbia? We will also track where 460 million dinars will be spent for the seat of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, from the budget to be adopted. Where will the money be spent? Who's gonna spend it? What do you mean, when we don't have an appeal court? In Kragujevac, someone needs to spend 460 million from the budget, and there's no court of appeals. It can only be in Serbia. Why is the budget of the Republic of Serbia forecasting this sum, these 460 million, when we still do not have the law on the Court of Appeal, when we have not yet established the seat of the appeals court in Kragujevac? However, Mr Tomic should consult with his fellow judges who have made decisions to return the mandates of the SRS. Mr. Tomic will not be the smartest, and we will see that he will be elected to the next functions in the judiciary, whether he will experience re-election. If not, let's see what function the gentleman may be elected to. Also, the judges in charge. It can't be unequal court practice. The Law on Local Self-Government can be respected in Belgrade, in Kragujevac it cannot. The Law on Local Self-Government can be respected in Novi Sad, and in Kragujevac it cannot, or in the Fourth Municipal Court. I think there's a big problem with court practice now. Will she be able to find her place, these few decisions regarding these mandates? Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this set of law on justice, I would draw your attention to the impact of these laws on judicial reform. The transitional and final provisions of the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Court strongly enable the politicisation of the judiciary and the inadmissible influence of the policy in selecting the holders of judicial functions, where the judiciary is brought into a position to re-election judges who would be contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The rights of citizens to the independence and impartiality of the judge. In particular, the judge undertakes a trial within the framework of justice to call for legal certainty and the rule of law. This will be seriously endangered if these laws are adopted, particularly indicated by the professional public, and also by the Society of Judges. Both the Society of Judges and the Professional Public warn the legislators of this law that there is a huge problem here, a huge obstacle and that a huge number of provisions are contrary to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The transitional and final provisions of the High Court Act, which are contrary to the basic provisions of the same law, provide for a different procedure for selecting the first Council of Justice and excludes a statement by judges on their representatives for candidates for members of the High Council. Therefore, the Council of the High Court will not be elected by the same procedure as the holders of judicial functions, judges and prosecutors are elected. In particular, I would like to point out that unclear, inadequate, left out provisions on material guarantees of the independence of judges, which are contrary to international standards, which provide that judges must be paid by law. That's not the case with us. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative and executive power in Serbia is being established and carried out according to political criteria. However, the judicial authority must be established and carried out exclusively according to professional criteria. This is the condition of democracy, or political freedom, as Monteskje also spoke of democratic rule. Therefore, it must be separate political power, legislative and executive, from the political neutral judicial authority. An independent judicial authority should establish itself in democratic societies, and accounts for its work to lay down who chooses it. In Serbia, after its own willful statehood, in 1918, the continuity of judicial functions as a constitutional category was adopted only in 1990, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted. The constitution, as an expression by the original constitutional authority, in Article 101, norms that the judicial authority is permanent. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1990 Constitution has established the continued function of the judiciary. The same formulation was repeated by Serbia's 2006 constitution, in Article 146(1). The constitution was passed by respecting, not interrupting, constitutional continuity. There's a big problem here. Pay attention. No continuity has been interrupted under the constitutional provisions of 1990 and 2006. This means that it has been, in a procedural sense, derived from the previous constitution since 1990. This means that the quality of the judicial function continues. So, the continuity of judicial and prosecutorial functions continues, there is no discontinuity. Therefore, the continuity of the judicial post has been counted since the Constitution of Serbia since 1990, and the law that allowed the constitution to be implemented. This court office has become immune from constitutional changes, most often caused by political reasons. This is, at the same time, the first argument in favour of the claim that the general choice of all judges in Serbia, just because of the new constitution, is not possible constitutionally and legally; it is possible to rape justice, to violate the legal order. The change of the Constitution is not unilateral and is not an easy argument to justify. Most of the constitutions in the world, ladies and gentlemen, in its last section contain transitional provisions governing the dynamics of the transition from the previous to the new constitutional arrangement, according to the new constitution. By our tradition, these transitional provisions are not formulated in the Constitution itself, but have been transferred to a special legal act that has no legal power of the Constitution, because it is not adopted as a Constitution, by constitutional and legal procedure. This is because those later, if there is a need, could change more easily. Because of the weaker legal force than the Constitution, this act, which, unlike ordinary laws, is called the Constitutional Law, must, like any law, be in accordance with the Constitution; otherwise, come under the control of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. The constitutional law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006, in Article 7(1), lays down a deadline within which the election of the President and the first choice of Judges of the High Court of Cassation is to be made, and the position of the 2nd member is to say: "The choice of Judges and President of the other courts will be carried out no later than one year from the date of the establishment of the High Council of Justice". In view of the subject-matter of the transitional provisions contained in the Constitutional Law, they cannot directly edit constitutional matter, they cannot directly assume the authority of the Constitution, where they are an integral part of the Constitution and conflicting provisions of the existing Constitution. Provision of Article 7(2) The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution must be systematically interpreted so that its provisions and constitutional principle of continuity are judges, as contained in Article 146(1). Serbia's constitution, therefore, is not as a ceasefire. So this is where you put the dot and think about it. There's no disengagement. Over this, no one can cross only because of the adoption of a new constitution, because as a reason for the termination of the judicial post, the Constitution itself does not state, but exclusively, the choice of judges of those courts who did not exist at the time of the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is something new now, it can only apply to those courts and those judges who were not elected to courts that did not exist under these laws and to the adoption of a new constitution. The question arises – can the law on judges explicitly predict the choice of judges of all courts and thus come from the assumption that there were no judges and courts in Serbia before him? There were judges and judiciarys in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9488	You speak for 15 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9489	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9490	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9491	The amendment proposing the establishment of a division of the Major Infringement Court, unforeseemed by law in other cases, served the MP to talk about the Kragujevac District Court. It is becoming the manner of individual MPs and MPs to either give judgments to people who have just begun the procedure, or to, unsatisfactory by some solution, or some verdict, to be brought to justice by a court that has reached a solution or a verdict and to decide directly on the validity of a solution or judgment, just as if they were a higher court finding, or as if they were someone who needed to protect Serbian citizens from illegal solutions or judgments. Here it was said in a very bad tone of one of the best district courts in Serbia. Because someone doesn't like what the council does, it can't possibly serve as an excuse to attack the president of the court. So I could go out and attack these courts by the judgments of a large number of district courts, say, because I don't like what they're doing, that they're criminals, but where would that lead us if we threatened to behave here if we didn't make a decision in accordance with our wishes. So without wanting to teach you, I stopped it a long time ago, I'm telling you – stay out of the court's work. There are ways and ways to complain, which require a review of some decision, which is required to change. It certainly is not a threat to any judge that they will not be re-elected, or to some judge president, whom you may not have met in your life, whose cases you have not been involved in at all, but you have believed in the word of someone who told you it was a bad judge or that it was a bad court. I don't want to talk about it anymore, because I don't like the fact that you've broken the principle that we don't interfere with the courts and their decisions. I would like to point out a problem that opposition parties may have when voting on the amendment submitted by the Hungarian party in this assembly. In fact, we have supported their amendment, because it is necessary to enable minority members to enjoy what the Constitution guarantees them, and that is a little more equality than we who belong to the people, because this creates better relations in the country, and thus minority members begin to feel just as we are people, although they have beyond the limits of their country of origin. However, here I heard a threat, blackmail spoken by the Hungarian political party MPs, who said – if this amendment is not voted, we will not vote for the law in general. That means, if it is voted, they will vote in favour of the law, and that further means, if we help our votes to pass that amendment, the law in general will be passed, and we will be subject to reasonable doubt that we have passed the law. Think about it well, you and those who are blackmailing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Even if we wanted to, and we wanted to help that amendment pass, I really don't accept ever being blackmailed to vote for anything. As I do not accept your blackmails, or threats, and as you have lost your full measure and compass, I repeat: this Serbia is divided into normal and abnormal people. Look, somehow, you belong to that group of normal people. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9492	National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the comparison of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9493	It refers to what Mr. Nikolic just said. I agree, Mr. Nikolic, that no one should interfere with the work of the courts. I don't know what it meant to you and who the finding that you wouldn't teach anyone else stopped teaching someone? Who does that apply to? On the other hand, I will remind you that in the course of the presidential campaign, you have given yourself the right to appear before the Court of Justice and to claim that when you become president of Serbia, you will review the verdict on the murder of Zoran Djindjic. So when you claim to be principled, then try to be really principled and consistent. You promised it, some other things you promised. Is there a more drastic attempt to interfere with the work of courts than that? Or go forth, and say, "I apologize, I have sinned, I have done this on behalf of another party, in the name of another ideology, it is not my attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9494	People's MP, we are under obligation to say which member of the Messenger we consider to have been injured. (Vladan Batić of place: 104) National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word on the basis of Article 100, then the National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, then the MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9495	Mrs. Komic, it's about article 104. However, in order for you to have no problem, I will refer to Article 27. Now let me explain why. Now I see how good it is that we voted against the Bologna process in our higher education. Look what Bologna does to a man. When a man loses his identity and imagine he's an authority, he teaches some. This is where he said MPs are divided into normal and abnormal. It's already a dangerous finding. I have concluded that the basis for division – whoever steals is normal; whoever fights the thieves – is not normal. I don't know how you DS have managed to disrupt the system of values in Serbia? In this country, who drives a jeep, or a jeep, and is, and who drives a "jugo" -- a car. Now he's a car, because he doesn't have enough money to buy a jeep, and the one who somehow got to the jeep, he's giving lectures, and he says, "Look, I drive a jeep," I'm normal, resourceful. Where did they learn that school? What's that correspondence course? Searching for this Bologna degree, some may have been unfoundedly accused. Please, let someone share Serbia, that someone divides MPs into normal and abnormal, and that's about the "zumbul" who sits here and keeps his job, as Boris Tadic said, defending the workplace through the DS?- I'm sorry. Here, everyone smiles from the DS, but they can't, because that's what their president, Boris Tadic, decided. Boris Tadic knows he's losing because of this, but he's afraid of Americans. That's the truth. There's no other truth. Just to draw your attention, Mr. Batic, that your picture, by accident, is published in SNN, that you look like Mladic, so you can sue SNN, how much would you make in that lawsuit? Two million euros. It's the best way to charge a favor. Mrs. Comic, you've injured Article 27. I know you didn't do it on purpose, or consciously, but you just walked into that game and God help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9496	There's no injury to article 27 in the explanation you gave at the pay phone. Article 27 could not be fully applied, since it could not be taken care of, because the MPs, banging on the Parliament's inventory, were distracting the speaker, and this was happening during the pay phone with MP Tomislav Nikolic. All the other arguments you have made, MP, do not refer to a breach of procedure, and there is no violation of article 27. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9497	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, I advertise Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr Nikolic, who was behind this speaker, said something that really offended all citizens of Serbia, especially the MPs, by dividing them into normal and abnormal. If he only meant politicians, I think that in political life today they are divided into globalists and anti-globalists, patriots and those who are willing to provide services to foreign states and work in the interests of foreign states, but we cannot possibly share people the way he would like to share them with Tomislav Nikolic. We should keep in mind that it's about a man who claims to have serious security issues, both him and his family. Now, let's see what makes him feel threatened. Because of the fact that SNN, please, under one text dedicated to Ratko Mladic, wrote on his website – Ratko Mladic, accused of genocide, and put, by mistake or not, and I do not believe in mistakes, a photograph of Mr Nikolic. He dared to say -- the party has made a decision to sue SNN and will seek 10m euros in damages, as his security is reportedly at risk. I ask you, how many of you, first of all, are there many people in Serbia who would be happy to play Ratko Mladic, in the sense that they go to The Hague for him, or any other court, and agree to serve life in prison? I believe, a lot. But, behold, Mr Nikolic decided to make 10m euros on that account, or thus justify the funds that Americans will definitely receive for a future campaign. In a legal way, he will, therefore, be given 10m dinars, or 10m euros, once in a verdict. I can't even imagine that kind of money, and 10 million dinars is a lot to me. So to justify such funds, which he already knows will invest in a future campaign. You have to prove the origin of that money. Then this is probably a deal with the CIA to get that money. It is a shame that he is ashamed of Ratko Mladic, who did not take protection of Ratko Mladic, or protested an inscription that stands by the name of Ratko Mladic and the qualifications that are placed on him, but protested what was reportedly his picture. It's not a mistake. You agreed to make a mistake like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9498	There's no breach of Article 104 or in your explanation. Had there been violations of Article 104, the MP would have been warned, and warned. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9499	I've been listening to everything here, and I've arranged for my character to be on the APB. You're smart enough not to react. I made a deal with the money, so they'll pay me easy, right? Mr. Batic, to always say exactly what it was like. Don't accuse me of being a doctor of legal science. You should know better than I did that I was talking about the rights of the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic has the right to interfere with a judicial verdict. It gives a pardon, which means it changes the court's decision, changes the level of punishment – it has the right, it's his act of mercy. He has the right to free himself from criminal prosecution, abolism, which is the re-interference of the President of the Republic, in those two cases, in court practice. When asked – would you give pardon to the murderers of Zoran Djindjic, I said that I would first have to go with my associates, I meant some of these benches, study the subject, so that I could be convinced that someone deserves a pardon or not. Murderers, brutal killers, drug dealers, those who raped, especially minors, would never get a pardon from me as president of the Republic. So, I haven't changed my ideology, I'm repeating it now. You can also use these current words of mine - to sometimes accuse me of me interfering, to get involved as President of the Republic in judicial judgments. There's a way for the National Assembly to get involved in that, by passing laws. Here, at a time when you were in power, there was a bill on general amnesty, I think it was Minister Stojkovic, and perhaps you were in opposition at the time. I'm sorry, but the minister was Stojkovic. There was a bill on amnesty, which was never on the agenda because of the disagreement of parliamentary groups. If he had been brought in, the law would have been involved in judicial judgments. If it had been adopted, according to our amendments, by certain levels of punishment, a certain percentage of the fine would have been reduced. I didn't say there were normal and abnormal MPs, I don't think so. Listen carefully, if you already want to be here, we'll take this pay phone equally, but some have recognized each other. It's not my fault, I didn't mention the messengers, the MPs come out and say they're normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9500	People's MP, please state a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9501	I'm sorry, I'm done. All MPs here are absolutely normal, and 22 MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9502	There is a word from MP Vladan Batic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), so MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9503	I'll speak by Article 104. Mr. Nikolic, you better not have defended yourself. I personally listened to your statement. I heard from your mouth that you were going to question, or you used that term. However, you said, I didn't mention the messengers, either like this or one, although it's ugly for anyone to say what you said, but you said you'd stop teaching and teaching the MPs. You didn't tell me who that was. Maybe you can, but you sure as hell can't. We have learned from you now what amnesty and abolition are, but we have learned, in particular, about your thinking that some people who are – not accused, but convicted, though not yet by a judicial verdict, are abolistic, or amnesty. For such acts and for such a crime, no president of any democratic state in the world would be affected by either abolization or amnesty. That's all I wanted to say, for no personal reason whatsoever, but that story of yours about meddling in the work of the court and the court's decisions has asked me to say this. Among other things, Mr. Nikolic, I think it was your big mistake in the election campaign. You mentioned Milanovic. He was convicted by a judicial verdict. I think you've lost one part of your potential voters, but I don't want to, and I don't want to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9504	National MP, there has been no breach of Article 104, nor is your statement an explanation in favour of the claim. I ask the People's MPs, I remind them, in fact, to use the right to reply, since the content of what they say is a replica. By doing so, we shall spare each other my obligations to apply the Rules of Procedure and your obligations to apply the Rules of Procedure. The right to replica is the discretionary right of the chairman, so that's the only risk you have if you're looking for a right to a replica. There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9505	Mrs. Comic, what can I do for you? It's a situation when someone becomes talkative. It's about the injury of Article 27, with half of Article 104. Now let me explain to you why with half of the article 104. Here's the thing. A month ago, there was one session of the Administrative Board and he also tried to play, and if Shami were there, he would have recommended that he pretend less to be smart. He tried to explain something to Master Dejan Mirovic, so he failed, and then the man said, you know, I graduated from Law School. Of course, journalists were shocked, everyone was shocked. We were all surprised, so we said, well, if you weren't in the presidential campaign a graduate lawyer, instead of a construction technician, you'd probably do better in the election? We have now heard that he has become a health worker, now he has entered into something that is Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's business. However, if by any chance he had this schooling properly and had failed his exams until he learned, he would probably learn one lesson – the presumption is that they are reasonable, and inaccountability is proven. You know, the presummation is that everyone is complicit when they enter the National Assembly, and some examples, when they come out for a pay phone, prove something the opposite. So whoever claims otherwise needs to prove it. I have no intention of proving that kind of opposite, but I just want to draw attention to you that there should be 78 chairs here for the SRS MPs whom the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have given, gave their voice, with the belief that the SRS election programme will be applied and that these will all shake from such a strong and powerful opposition, and then those in the coalition with some there have agreed to invent something that needs to be taught here. We don't need these lectures, we need a decision to return the mandate to the SRS and that's what the SRS is looking for, that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are looking for. We need only what was decided on 11 May 2008 to belong to the SRS, and there is the beginning and end of all the problems that exist in the National Assembly. Inform Boris Tadic that it is a problem and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9506	There is no violation of article 27 and none of the half of the members 104, as you have said, nor did you explain in the content of your presentation which part of the procedure and who caused the breach of the procedure. You are right to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at committee meetings, just like in the National Assembly sessions, but something that was a month ago, I suppose could have been resolved then, by saying that the Rules of Procedure had been injured. The word is from MP Jadranko Vukovic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 226 and I have a question for you, Mrs. Malovic. I would ask you to enter one name, I was inspired by Mr Nikolic – Igor Becic, an MP. I've learned this in the last two days, he's moved on to Mr. Nikolic, and more criminal charges have been blocked by someone, I know who he is, and you can check and get me an answer in writing if that's the transfer, that's 22, what Mr. Nikolic says?- I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9508	People's MP, immunity protects you from everything you say at the speaker of the National Assembly, but the content of your exposure is inadmissible. So, if you know someone committed a crime, you can't say it at a pay phone -- I know who it is, but I won't tell you. I ask you not to disrespect the National Assembly. If you are asking for the word that you are talking about such serious things as criminal charges, or abuse of an authorised person, which, by abuse of official office, are unauthorized, by your word, prone or "use" criminal charges, then you have no right to insult the National Assembly with a sentence – I know who it is, but I won't tell you. Following the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by Jadranko Vukovic, based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9509	Mrs. Komic, I don't understand who I offended if I said that Mrs. Malovic would check what I said. So, I know there are criminal charges, they're standing somewhere, and now you're saying I'm hiding it. Ask Boris Tadic. If I'm wrong and there are no criminal charges, then you can react by doing so. You allow Tomislav Nikolic to say – 21, which is the order. That last one committed some crimes and it's in someone's drawer. Now I'm supposed to tell you, in whose drawer. Mrs. Malovic will check it out and reply in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9510	National MP, you are required to state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. By looking at the stenogram, you can make sure you said the sentence - I know who it is, but I won't say it. It is an insult and a demeaning of the National Assembly. No matter what immunity protects you from any kind of crime, unless you are directly caught in committing a crime for which a 5-year sentence is prescribed, playing with criminal charges and such information is a mistreatment of the National Assembly. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9511	There's a injured member of 104 here. So, MP Igor Becic resigned Thursday, which you manipulate when all MPs are at stake, to which you hold them in obedience. What crime did he commit since Thursday, when he resigned, until today? Well, you're saying here that someone is hiding his crimes because the Serbian Progressive Party is co-operating with Boris Tadic. It will be more likely that you send this message to the other MPs that if they decide to do such an act, and their will is free, they can do whatever they want, you UDBE will dig up some criminal record that exists against them. So Igor Becic, from the moment he joined the Serbian Progressive Party, has committed no crime and has not filed any criminal charges against him. As far as I know, and the Vice-President of the Administrative Committee is here, there is no request against him in the Administrative Committee to discuss his immunity. If that's from the time he was in the SRS, then how did Igor Becic answer to you who you now call a criminal? What he was, that's what he is now. He's not a criminal and you know it well. There are two reports that "yellows" wrote against him and there's one criminal complaint for libel, private, by which we've never taken off immunity. I'm really sorry that that's how you understand your friends today. And for those of you who are banging tomorrow, the same thing can happen, that someone is waving some criminal charges that exist against you, that they accuse you of working with the BIA, just because you're not anymore, you won't take this kind of behavior. That is why the constitution predicted that the mandate belonged to the MP, that the political party, on whose list he was elected, would not blackmail him, that he could vote freely here, rather than vote as ordered. If he doesn't vote as you command him to activate his resignation. The man himself activates his resignation. No one in his name can resign. That resignation is a threat, and it is no longer an act that this and that MP do not want to be a messenger of the people anymore. I said mine, my conscience is clean and peaceful, and you think about how you're going to do it. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9512	People's MP, I reminded Parliamentarian Jadranka Vukovic and warned of the obligation to respect Article 104. If I thought he broke it, he'd have been warned. He was thus only alerted to the respect of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, in the manner in which each MP addresses the National Assembly. National MP Jadranko Vukovic, right to replication, on the basis of Articles 101 and by direct reference.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9513	What you just said, Igor Becic trusted our friends in Vojvodina that it was his trouble and that you would give him protection. We'll check that out. Did the "yellows" write, who wrote, that's why he came to you, because you're close to a group of authorities and that you'll protect him. We'll check it out, then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9514	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), so the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9515	Mrs. Comic, Article 27 again. You've been seeing for several months that if this member is misapplicated, then we have this situation. She's very interesting. At a time when EULEX is deployed in the north of KiM, it takes the administrative border, the line towards the Republic of Serbia, implements its own will, usually implements such examples in the National Assembly, which should disabling the National Assembly, as viewers would say -- you see, there's one of them spinning again. We of the SRS must be resilient, reminding you and warning that Article 102 paragraph 2 is constantly being violated here. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you give a word like that to some examples, you know it's people who brag about how they picked up resignations and lost them, how they can't be activated, how they obstruct both justice and the Constitution, etc. We're going back to that old story again. Usually a real man is ashamed of something, and someone's proud of it. It's not bad for our "Yugo", if you've earned it, bought it, even on credit, etc., but if it's a jeep of suspicious origin, then it's someone's "in" just because they're sitting in the jeep, because they're wearing expensive clothes, expensive shoes, showering three times, flat, on a day and that's how they get in touch with Europe and with the Planet, and they're trying to represent it's something, and it's not, then, when they're working their consciences, if it works, it's really not my fault. I must tell you that such a phenomenon in the National Assembly, during a decent debate on the law governing the organisation of courts and public prosecutors, can be destructive. The destructive phenomena in our policy are very bad. I remind you, Mrs. Comic, it's like voting from Bodrum, like voting from Thessaloniki, when several thousand people are arrested overnight without a solution, without anything, when companies are closed, etc. Since time is running out, just once again to teach that lesson to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia – defend your jobs. If you're kicked out of your jobs, call yesterday's meeting of the DS's main board in Subotica, the "sabotical prey," which he decided, there's no need for Boris to send new letters. They need to keep their jobs, not keep their jobs like this, apparently. Take care, this is still the National Assembly and know, whenever such examples appear, something bad is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9516	There's no damage to article 27. Your argument regarding the violation of the Constitution implies another procedure. In your presentation, you did not explain how any part of article 27 was injured and more, by its nature, replicas, than calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9517	Dear colleagues, I, for your sake and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, came out for this pay phone, above all, to protect our integrity, related to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Nikolic said the MPs here were so-called. The resignations are kept in subjection. To make that clear, what's this all about? I must say that all of us, when running for office, that is, when calling for elections and putting on the list of individual political parties, had to sign a statement that we accepted the candidacy. So we volunteered to do this job. When our list received a number of mandates, we did so in accordance with the Constitution, and Mr Nikolic worked on this constitution and should know that Article 102 states that the MP is free to, under certain conditions, irrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of the political party on whose proposal he was elected MP. He's free if he wants to, if he wants to, the way the law says it. Of course, it was mostly all the MPs who did it, and we did it. There's been a crime against crime. Someone stole our resignations. Someone stole something from me that was my expression of will. I didn't give it to anyone personally. I gave it to my political party, which put me on that list, and I am personally very affected that Nikolic stole it from me and can now manipulate those resignations, blackmail people, as he does. It's for every conviction. That's what's extremely immoral. What's the difference between breaking into a bank, stealing something that's someone else's or kidnapping the election will of a citizen by stealing the resignation of an MP? I don't think anyone in the history of parliamentaryism, anywhere in the world, has done it, nor has he thought of such a monstrous idea, but one Nikolic came up with, or someone smarter than him to tell him to do it, that he should do it. Then who manipulates people? Is it all the rest of you who have those resignations, or the one who stole other people's resignations? It's not such a meaningless thing when you hold someone's will in your hands, you're in a situation to manipulate people in different ways, to blackmail them. We're all human, with virtues and weaknesses, there are vices, we know what vices are like, and it's easy to manipulate people like that. I'm sorry it happened, but the situation is, unfortunately, so. As long as we don't clear this situation here in Parliament, I don't think these people have the right to appear behind this pay phone. Madam Chairman, you know, it's just that we don't answer for the replica, because we can direct the replica... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... only to the People's MP, not to some citizen who, by your will or by the will of the Parliament's majority, has found himself behind this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9518	People's MPs, no harm done to member 104. The situation surrounding the resignations each of the MPs describes in its own style, and you in your presentation, and they, and the word in the National Assembly, is given exclusively by the MPs. Replica is the discreet right of the chairman, who appreciates whether or not there is a basis for replication. You are not satisfied with my response to your request to vote on Article 104's injury. We'll come out in voting day. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9519	I have nothing to add to what Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, as a respected lawyer. I couldn't explain better how to manipulate someone else's will through the resignations that someone keeps with him. So when you have other people's resignations in your safe or drawers, you manipulate someone else's will. As a result, there are no resignations in the SNS, no one has resigned, and only to give you that position of 2nd Article 102. I read the constitution once again, so that you may understand where you are wrong: 'The People's Messenger is free to, under certain laws', and where is this law which sets out the conditions under which the MP of his own free will to make his mandate available to the party? What is the name of the law, quote his member, explaining how the MP puts his resignation irrevocably to a political party whose list he was elected from? Find me where that solution was worked out in law? Until it is settled in the law, it cannot be applied, because the Constitution says, under the terms of a certain law. The Constitution says, "Bring the law, then make it available to others." This way, you have the resignations of those who have taken loans, who have no other salary, who have planned to support their family for four years by a parliamentary mandate, which is very immoral, which is not good, which is not like a political party. It looks like a group of people who've been brought together with the intention of commanding them, to manipulate them by the end of the term, and that's basic. I would never want your head on a BOLO, ever. I would never tell you if you'd done it so that those who stayed behind would get some money. Just so you know. I said I was proud to be replaced by Ratko Mladić, but I'm worried that now every shit can kill me and say – this is Ratko Mladic. So don't twist my words, what's happening to me. Something very bad is happening to me in life, in part, and because of your party president, and you know it very well. It's my good fortune to find out who was told, when told, who was preparing and how. Now I'm telling you, the one I'm telling this to will be recognized. Don't raise money for Vojislav Seselj's warrant so I won't be alive. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9520	There's no injury to the member you called. The MP explained in her own style the subject of the resignations and interpretations whether or not there was a law that prescribed the conditions for the submission of the resignations. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1), so MP Dejan Mirovic and MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure, given that you are not responding, Madam President, or the Chairman, and I have recognized myself, and I think I am obliged to react after all this. I don't think anyone in the SRS is manipulating me and I don't think he's manipulating my mandate. I'm in the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9522	National MP, for the right to reply, you must be directly mentioned. People's MP, you've been given the floor under Article 100(1), and you've begun your exposure by not wanting to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but reporting for replication. I ask the MPs not to earn, I listen very carefully to all the speakers and we can use the stenogram to determine whether the MP said he appeared on the line, because he was recognized in what MP Tomislav Nikolic said. So when you said you recognized yourself in what Tomislav Nikolic said, I interrupted you, because I have the right to remind you that you can have a replica if you are directly mentioned, or if you are president, deputy president of the parliamentary group, or authorised representative of the parliamentary group; otherwise, you do not have the right to reply. If you wish to use your right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I ask you to speak in the next three minutes about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9523	Ma'am, I wanted to, however, if you'd let me go for another three seconds, or five seconds to speak, you'd hear what I'm calling for, and in what part I think the dignity of the Assembly, or the Members of the People's Parliament, has been injured. You don't let me do this and tell me something I know. It seems to me that I've learned at least enough in this time to rule the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you'll excuse me, let me go and don't count this time. So I believe that the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, which regulates Article 104. We are the People's MPs of the SRS, we are part of this assembly, and I believe that the exposition of the predecessors has questioned my dignity, as the People's MP of this assembly. You'll figure it out, and then you'll tell me. If I'm not satisfied, I'll ask you to plead. We have just heard here that someone is ruling our mandate, or our will. I'm now saying, I've been in the SRS for 15 years. I've been an MP for five months now, and I don't think, and I didn't think for a moment that I was wrong to stay in the SRS. In the SRS, I was left with principles and consistency, which, among other things, were taught by those who today speak something else, those who invoke the Constitution, and only two or three years ago spoke and thought something else. What did they say two or three years ago? Mr Tomislav Nikolic said the following on 19 May 2003 – I do not think that the party of Bogoljub Karic could enter parliament because no one can enter parliament without elections. "This is my message to all political parties. He'll either resist now, or we'll stop fighting politics. What we'd fight for if after the election we didn't know who had so many MPs. We will do politics from day to day, campaigns, elections, and Bogoljub Karic will wait and buy MPs who are elected. ''In short, among other things, Mr Tomislav Nikolic said this on that occasion – this is a great exam, we will pass it. For the MP who betrayed the SRS, he said the following – we are not interested in this poor man at all, let him do with his life whatever he wants, we are interested in Bogoljub Karic. Could this phenomenon be rooted in Serbia? If he wins, there will be nothing left of Serbia. Tomislav Nikolic and the MPs who left with him are proof that, unfortunately, the phenomenon that was then rooted has not dried up in Serbia. This is what I'm gonna end up with. This phenomenon, through the SNS, will last while the plant and its roots water these on the left, and when they stop watering them, or when they pour oil into the pot, the plant will dry, and behind that plant it will remain just an unpleasant smell.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9524	There is no violation of Article 104 – in the manner in which the MP is free to make his mandate available. You spoke in your own style, like all speakers before you. Man's style. You have not been warned because of the expressions you used, nor have the messengers who spoke before you. No injuries to Article 104, and for warning, you can stop the stenogram and see that you probably wanted to talk about the injury, but you were talking about the replica. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9525	I am reporting on Article 104 and on the interpretation of the Constitution, Article 102. I'll be brief, since Mr. Nikolic is not here. He claims he's right. We claim we're right. I think it would be best if someone who is neutral, someone who knows him and us, expressed his opinion, which has already been made in a daily newspaper, 22.10. This is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who is, by the way, both a lawyer and a lawyer. She says, "There's nothing personal about it. All I ask is that the law and the electoral will of the citizens be respected. The Vanparliamentary Party cannot say it is parliamentary until it participates in the elections. The voters have not yet had the opportunity to opt for the SNS, voting for Nikolic. They supported the SRS programme. Even though I'm excluded from the SRS, the right is on their side." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9526	People's MP, there's no breach of Article 104, but I warn you that the second time you choose words more carefully, because you can't tell a pay phone that you don't want to talk because there's no MP here, and you called to get word and talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is a serious matter, and I ask you not to disrespect the National Assembly, not to abuse the right you have and which no one will be denied, but it cannot be considered rhetorical that you say that you are not interested in speaking, because MP Tomislav Nikolic is not in the hall. The word gives you the chairman. As a People's MP, I'm quite certain, you're asking to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure because you believe that a procedure has been injured during the session. I warn you, that's how we behave. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9527	Mrs. Komic, that's Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we MPs are unable to give notice to the chairman. Probably, and we're going to have to change that to the Rules of Procedure, because the way you're conducting this debate, on issues that have been current for two and a half months, almost three months, we're going to have to solve it. Please, you've just had a chance to hear Article 102(2) read. I have no intention of reading it, since it's clear to everyone, but it was so offensive at the expense of young Djurisic. Now let me explain why. Djurisic holds all resignations, or, to be precise, what is prescribed in Article 102(2). He boasted of me and warned me, brothers of the radicals, if you had given your resignations to Đurić, he would have kept it much better in the safe. I didn't make this up. Srjan, this is a serious matter. Whether you two lied to me or not, that's another thing. Article 102(2) states that the MP can give his mandate to the political party. Take the National Assembly website and see which political parties are represented in the National Assembly. You're going to have a painful situation, and that's to make some of them appear here, who appear at the pay phone, are not parties. You had the opportunity to hear a few days ago about the argument of borrowing, the conscious, the intentional, and the scenario of how to end the coup and to reduce the reputation of the SRS, to finish the dirty work in The Hague, that this same specimen came out here and said – what are you rebelling, here, I'll pay you back, just give me a little of what belongs to you, out of the budget, what you take for 78 and my 21. You here have, as DS, the chairman, and the public in Serbia, something that's being told in person. What's that? "I've kidnapped and I'm proud of it." That's got to deserve a social conviction. That public has to condemn it. A team before you heard Dragan Stevanovic, what he read, what his views are. You DS will be the victim of such a policy, which tolerates it. I've never had anyone on this side say it's okay, Krasic, you're right. You always said it wasn't true. You always said that, but it's been a few months, so you're chasing me down the hall by the sleeve and you say, "You were right." I tell that to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9528	Three minutes and 30 seconds. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9529	Please don't warn them. I'm so glad they're getting to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9530	People's MP, no matter what I'd be glad to have all the MPs happy to work together here, the rules are the same for everyone. The MPs who are on your left, even though you are trying to communicate with them, have no right to receive and to interfere with you during your opening night. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeth, casts out, do they have on the right hand side? No, no one has the right to interfere with the MP and throw it away, but in this case I have asked and issued a warning to the MPs not to interrupt the speaker. Thank you, People's Messenger. There's no injury to article 27 and the fact that you mentioned in the explanation that it's a debate, probably, is a slip, because there's no debate here. People's MPs are detecting infringements of procedures and are calling on a member of the Rules of Procedure to speak about the injury. Since, by content, the mah, all the injuries spoken concerned the replica, I was obliged to remind you that you have the right to use the replicas, but that your right and free choice, all of us, which we will use at our disposal, would have the session of the National Assembly run in order. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9531	Madam Chairman, I wanted first of all to draw your attention to one fact. You stand for a vice president who has a really good concentration and rarely when you miss anything the MP says about this speaker. Sometimes I get the impression that a fly can't fly away without you noticing it. However, Mr Nikolic said about this speaker something that you had to condemn, which is that the MPs of the SRS, or the Serbian Radical Party, on the orders of Dr Vojislav Seselj, are collecting money for its liquidation. Did you hear that? If you have heard and have not responded, you have indeed violated the dignity of this house and have not fulfilled your obligation. If you haven't heard, I repeat to you what this man said about this speaker, and it describes in the best possible way what kind of man he is and what kind of psychophysical state he is in right now. He's in fear. From who? I don't know, but I'm saying that from a man who's been in prison for six years, there's no reason to be afraid. Maybe he's afraid of coming back. I don't know, 'cause he needs to meet him and look into his eyes. He probably knows he won't have the guts to do it. But let me tell him, he's certainly not going to be involved in politics in a year's time. That's his mandate from the West. He'll go to Bicettin to bake some brandy. He's done part of the job. Young Vukic, who is currently in Croatia, will continue this policy. He went there to learn how to "sanaderize" Serbia, or he went there to see that little Serb that he said remained in Knin, but he didn't say so, I say. He said there are as many as 6,000 Serbs there. It's a lot for him. These are the people who speak one thing today, tomorrow they say another; for 15 years it has been taking resignations from all of us, after all the elections, now it is suddenly not in accordance with the law. Now he's okay with this, now he's okay with it, the way it suits him personally, or someone who's giving him instructions. I just want to show you how inconsistencies and immoral a man is, especially when he's been attacking a man who's been in prison for six years and who doesn't have a chance to answer. Please, can you imagine the situation that we're talking to Vojislav Seselj on the phone and he says, "Collect money, find a hit man and kill that dog." Well, an impossible situation, so the entire universe would know that. Anyone would have found out, because those conversations are absolutely listening. What do we look like, please? We politically want to destroy these bastards, but we want to kill someone, so no one's hair is ever missing from their heads, whoever left the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9532	National MPs, the only thing I could say as a warning to the quoted part of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic was to remind him of the obligation to respect Article 104 and to prohibit the delivery of facts from other persons' private lives. And then, and now, I felt that such a warning was inappropriate, given the content of what was said, and that's why I didn't say it, and it was made public, and I'm quite sure that what was said will be kept in account, will it tell the truth after the speaker of the National Assembly. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the third time today, I am going to go out for this pay phone, in the hope that, perhaps, Madam Minister, I will also point to the quality of certain amendments, to their meaning. So far, you have not shown the will to accept amendments that, I say, are meaningful to you, which do not come out of the framework that you have defined with your own reasons, but, well, it won't be difficult for me, if I have to, five more times to come out. Of course, I repeat, too, that you are in a very unpleasant situation, not you personally, of course, you are an exponent of the government, the government, given that you are threatening, objectively, not to adopt this law. If that were to happen, it would be a slap for the government. On the basis of all this which is today, or tonight, or yesterday, or the day before yesterday, when the debate was held, a conclusion is imposed, which I seem to have mentioned in part this morning, which is that in an unprincipled way you will have to adopt this law, or you will accept amendments to individuals whose votes depend on the adoption of the law, so in some way you will show discrimination against other MPs, who here also spoke on behalf of some, I know, or national minorities, or some endangered environments, but it seems to me that you will be forced to do so, in the context of adopting this failed legal solution. One more time, I'm gonna do what I said today. I would really like fellow MPs from the position, or from the authorities, who had amendments to the text of this law to be principled in the voting day, to vote in favour of their amendments, to support the amendments to the opposition, because, apparently, their position and position of the opposition on this law is compatible, or not to vote in favour of the bill unless the government is ready to accept the amendments to the opposition, or one amendment is sufficient – Mrs Radovic, and thus, in some way, or completely, bring things into normal, within the frames of normal. I asked you today, Madam Minister, do you know in whose interest the adoption of this law is? You didn't give me the answer, I assume at the end of this debate you'll say. But here, I've been doing some menus from this European kitchen. This is part of a comprehensive book, which would define our path to Europe, or European integration, is the National Integration Programme. Among other things, the following is said: The National Assembly adopted, on a proposal from the government on 25 May 2006, the National Strategy for Justice Reform. The government adopted an action plan to implement the Strategy in June 2006. The national strategy aims as a fundamental goal, by establishing the rule of law and legal certainty, through reform of judicial authorities and justice in general, to preserve and strengthen citizens' confidence in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia and to make further progress in the process of approaching the EU. According to the National Strategy for Justice Reform, the achievement of an effective judiciary is based on four key principles: independence, transparency, accountability and efficiency. That's what you wrote, as Eurofanatics, I repeat, I don't mean personally you, so your political concept is expressed through this. I can accept that you are dealing with European standards in the field of justice with certain domestic capacities, but the conclusion is that you are also copying these laws, as many others, from, say, the legislation of Croatia or the legislation of Slovenia. These may also be the reasons why the laws are condemned to failure, or are defined as they are. Try, say, with laws from Slovakia, they have effective legislation, it has proved to be effective and it works. But here, I'll deal with all four of these principles individually. You say "independence." What degree of independence of courts, after this centralization, will be, we can only suggest, and as for the independence of the judiciary as a whole, you have shown by the procedure and way of adopting this law how ready you are for independence. I said that today. You systematically forced the judges to remain silent and not objectively objective against a law that was not good. You convince us, and we should accept the fact that the judiciary, in this way, will be independent. The independence of the judiciary cannot be defined by paper, by any act, must be defined by one positive practice. As much as you want to define something and frame it with the law, if there's no will, you can't do it. You say transparency. So much is going on behind, so much is happening beyond the public's eyes, and maybe even those who are the most responsible and, let me say, the most important thing in this whole story. You're talking about responsibility. Is everything that has been going on in the judiciary in the last eight years possible to guarantee anyone who is going to be referred to this judicial system that the justice system in the coming period, only because of the fact that such a law has been passed, will be reformed, or that responsibility will return to the judicial system? In a judicial and legal sense, we also had a responsibility to Bojan Krisht, right? Is there any legislative matter that regulates, or that deals with all that he has done, and is listed from this pay phone? There is. Everyone's either deaf or dumb, or blind to what he's done and what he's done. Is anyone responsible for this today? No, I don't. What responsibility, like Parliament, can you speak to me as representatives of the executive government? There's no responsibility. That's the problem. The responsibility, in Serbia and in judicial reform, is not put on paper, but is manifested through concrete actions and moves. You can't solve everything, not even by law. It's not enough to have a law. I asked you today how to allocate funds from municipal taxes that went on behalf of municipal courts? You say, it's going to be laid down by law. Is the law good? Who will define the criteria? Will the criteria be fair? You, in accordance with the law, flew into Darka Mladic's house the other day. Is that right? You didn't call on the statutes of an association of citizens, you called on the law. Is that good? You discredited a man, discredited his family, his business image, etc. You did the same thing with the Vujic family a month ago. You did it in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, our entire country, the only form and expression of transparency are two members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are art. 225 and 226. Only thanks to these members of the Rules of Procedure can there be recognition and transparency in Serbia. There you can hear what's going on in Serbia. That way. It's a good thing there are, and we in the SRS are going to keep using it as a model and a transparency system. Madam Minister, as far as efficiency is concerned, you can only imagine how effective the judiciary will be. I remained deprived of these answers, in what context are these geographical distances, travel infrastructures, or traffic connections. You didn't tell me that. I expect you to tell me. Here, these last few days we've been talking about the judiciary, we're demonstrating our will to introduce certain rules in courts, and parallel to that, they happen in courts, for which you, as minister, are competent, terrible things. Here's the file. This, in particular, refers to an appeal court. Now I'm not going to use this pay phone, if you're interested, I'm willing to talk to you and point to some anomalies, and that's all past you, next to you. It's objectively happening. The numbers aren't small. The numbers are millions. They range from 15 million to 30 million dinars. I think some of these papers are on your desk, too. I think you're very casual and very superficially familiar with this subject. I think you should get to know each other in a different way. I know he came to see you at the Ministry at the table. He's referring to the Court of Appeal in Nis. Sometimes you look at what's going on and what's going on. Today, when we talk about courts, about the judiciary and the need to reform the judiciary, here's the Trade Court in Leskovec, the judges, abuse the system of announcements. The parties in the cases cheat, manipulate them that they are called to the hearings, people are waiting, they are not called to the hearings, and they are manipulated by people. Procedures are being initiated against them, people are making written statements that witnesses are some unpopular, incorrect proceedings of the same judge, and this is a Branimir Stankovic, a judge from the Trade Court in Leskovac. Who knows how many people are damaged in these procedures. And I'm going to give you this, I'm going to give you witness statements, court statements, statements from lawyers, statements from damaged parties in the proceedings. The numbers aren't small. Abuse and boastful behavior, objectively, gives the impression of a very bad and inefficient judiciary. These same people say that in this trade court, of seven judges, six are worth, and that one is not. The impression of the judiciary is based, unfortunately, on that one man, not on six of those who do good and good quality. I mean, Madam Minister, to do a good thing by withdrawing this law from the procedure, a lot of us think so. I don't think you're going to be in a position to apply this. You do the math. If you take this seriously, you will do something good and something smart, if not, be prepared to experience perhaps one inconvenience, which is that this congregation, or congregation majority, does not adopt the government’s choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9534	Thank you. On Article 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mirko Munjic, a Messenger of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9535	Article 7. The bill reads as follows: "The departments of the Higher Violent Court are: 1) The Department of Kragujevac, for the area of infringement courts in Arangelovac, Gornji Milanovac, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Kralje, Kruševec, Novi Pazar, Paracina, Požega, Prijepolje, Raška, Sjenica, Trstenik, Čačka and Užica". The proposed amendment requires that, after the word "Fire", the word "Prays" be added. So, that the Major Criminal Court Department in Kragujevac may also be for the area of the Violent Court in Priboj. The government's argument is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that, in principle, the concept of increasing the number of criminal courts is not accepted. It is precisely this concept of the arrangement of courts and seats, i.e. The draft law on court seats is essentially not good. The very fact that so many amendments, both opposition MPs and MPs, have been submitted to the proposal for this law, is in favour of this. So many amendments have been tabled that, indeed, the best option that the promoter has at this point – that the bill is withdrawn from the procedure. A lot has been said about this by all MPs of the opposition, and as far as MPs are concerned, today I have said that there is a great responsibility on them, especially in relation to their constituents, to the citizens they represent. These citizens, I'm sure, when they heard the concept of this law, when they heard their amendments, they thought that today's MPs in this House should vote in favour of these amendments, that this would not only be a mere submission of the amendments, but these amendments should vote. We will be in a position to see the position of MPs in the voting day. I say, it would be best, given the concept of the law, that the motionor withdraws the bill before the day before the vote. As for the concept of court arrangements, and therefore the seats of the courts for which the SRS stands, I can say that we advocate such a concept of courts where in the first degree the municipal courts would be, and somewhere around them in the first degree, with the departments of economic disputes, in the second degree there would be county courts, then, in the third degree, there would be the Supreme Court of Cassation, which would be the highest legal instance, and that court would unite the whole theory and the case law and, as such, would be the highest legal instance. In addition, our concept does not know appeals courts as special courts, nor criminal, as special courts. So, if these disputes were to decide on the sentence of imprisonment, these violations could be tried in municipal courts. The aim of this amendment, which the colleague has submitted, is to improve, in a way, the concept of this law on the seat of courts, by adding to the Office of the Major Criminal Court in Kragujevac, in addition to those mentioned, the Criminal Court in Priboj. Many reasons, which have been expressed these days in favour of such solutions, speak in favour of this solution, but I must once again say that the concept of this law itself is wrong, as well as the other laws in the field of justice, and these are laws on the regulation of courts, on the choice of judges, on the High Council of Justice, on the State Council of Prosecutors, and this last law is just a logical continuation of the proposed laws. This law, as well as the laws that I had counted before it, in fact, no one is satisfied, no judges, no citizens of Serbia, no MPs of the opposition, nor many MPs of the position. The fact that this law is not satisfied with judges gives us a direct signal that all those stories of corruption and the fight against corruption are falling into the water. This calls into question one of the basic principles, which is the principle of impartiality of the judge's office. What will be the efficiency and economics, and how will economics be achieved by such a concept of the law on judges' seats? There will be no court president in many courts, since this number of courts is being abolished, with the ruling majority, on the other hand, much easier to control the smaller number of court presidents. To remind, for example, that according to the proposal for a law on court seats, only 34 basic courts remain, therefore, so much so that the President of these courts, so that this principle of control, or the supremacy of the executive authority in relation to the judiciary, will be particularly expressed if this bill is adopted, in the same way as if other laws were passed, a set of these laws in the area of justice. Practice will show that by passing these laws, the costs will be doubled. These days, we have seen many examples showing that, by passing these laws, the costs associated with the procedure itself will be increased multiplely. The greatest efficiency that will be achieved by the adoption of all these laws in the field of justice, including the adoption of a law on the seat of courts, is, in fact, a kind of lustration of judges, which will be carried out, we have talked a lot about these days, through a general choice or re-election of judges, so only politically similar judges will be elected. So, judges who are at the will of the ruling majority will be able to pass, will be able to be elected under these laws, and those judges who do not, will normally fall. It is believed that, by passing these laws, there will be no work between 500 and 700 judges, and there are plenty of other court officials, etc. In addition, the election of judges who provide for the law on judges, which will be deployed in courts, as you have provided for by this law on the seat of courts, will violate one of the basic principles, one of the basic principles that the Constitution of Serbia provides for, and that is, the principle of recognition of the rights of judges acquired. Namely, acquired rights must be guaranteed to everyone. That's what our constitution guarantees, so it's normal for those acquired rights to be guaranteed to judges. They must all be guaranteed, and it cannot be allowed, by adopting a new legal act, to enter into a violation of the law, so that someone's rights are abolished, so one offence would enter into another and so on. By passing these laws, there is a supremation of the executive authority in relation to the judicial authority and it will come to a special expression. This sub-premation is still present today, and indeed there are many examples in the area of privatisation that point to this supremacy as far as judicial authority is concerned. I wouldn't talk about individual cases, although they're practically done. The only and most important thing to say at this point is that this law on the seat of the courts, as we have discussed for the other law in the area of the judiciary, the promoter should withdraw. I think it would be best for everyone and for everyone to be happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9536	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted to Article 7, by MPs Sheriff Hamzagic and Verica Radeta. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9537	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, every time reforms are announced in any area of society, it causes attention to the professional public. However, by announcing reforms in the area of justice, especially when texts were published in public, or at least parts of the text of the proposal for this set of laws, it was no longer merely an interest of the professional public, but, literally, the entire public of Serbia stood up. All men are intimidated by what these laws will produce if, eventually, they come into effect. We are still convinced that this will not be so, especially since the application of these laws is foreseen for 1 January 2010 and there is enough time for certain changes to take place. Imagine what these bill proposals are like when the Society of Judges has the same attitude in many segments, for example, as MPs of the SRS Group. In addition, the Society of Judges criticises the MPs, first of all, the MPs of the SRS, but that is no problem, sympathy is mutual. If the Serbian Radicals had decided, the Society of Judges would certainly not exist, nor would there be a need to exist, but the Society of Judges is now not a subject, the subject of legislation that many judges will take to the Society of Judges, or to other societies, because they will have to fight for survival in their jobs, judicial functions and public prosecutorial functions, essentially, at jobs, because what these laws, this set of laws foresees, implies that, after the lustration that will be carried out in Serbian courts, about 500 judges will be left without bread, or so many families without one salary in the house, provided they had one more. The number of court administration employees that I am not talking about, especially since most of these people in the judicial administration, i.e. the administration, have been almost on the verge of existence, because, unfortunately, in the last eight years, these people have never been taken care of in Serbia. They often strike and stop working for an hour or two during the day. Again, they were condemned by the Society of Judges and by a number of judges and the public, for now someone cannot finish his job. Of course, in such conditions, and with such pay, we would be happier than now that they expect to be fired. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group is one of the amendments, and now we are talking about an amendment to Article 7(1). Article 7 speaks of sections of the High Court and in Section 1, point 1), states that the Department of Kragujevac provides for the area of criminal courts in Arangelovac, Gornji Milanovac, Jagodina, Kragujevac, Kralje, Kruševec, Novi Pazar, Paracina, Požega, Prijepolja, Raški, Sjenica, Trstenik, Čačka and Užica. In the amendment, I suggested that, after the word "Trstenik", the word "Tutin" should be added, i.e. the Major Criminal Court Department should also cover the area of the Tutin Criminal Court. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment, with a reason not to accept it for the same reasons that it does not accept the amendment of MP Sasa Dujovic. It's very hard to manage and go back and forth with these arguments that the amendment is not accepted for reasons like the one before, so when you get to it, again like the one before and all. Somehow I found that amendment by my colleague Sasa Dujovic. The government says it does not accept the amendment since amendments proposing an increase in the number of misdemeanor courts have not been accepted. The point is that this amendment is a trace of the amendment to Article 2 and beyond. I don't know where you got the idea, when it comes to Tutin, to increase the number of misdemeanor courts, when there's a law enforcement body in Tutin, there are two judges working in that body. They have a dozen employees, as far as I know. They are all out of work, thanks to someone telling you that accepting this amendment would mean increasing the number of criminal courts. So again, unseriousness, irresponsibility, and I have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that a representative of the government and government, or one of the civil servants who prepares this for the government, should make sure that the arguments are at least common sense, that we do not have to break the spear and discuss it. Therefore, it is necessary to accept the amendment to Article 2 and, as a consequence, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 7 as one and the other relate to the need for the existence of the Court of Justice for Infringements in Tutin. There are many reasons why, when I spoke about amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, I was in favour of the claim that it is necessary to accept these amendments, but, unfortunately, it does not reach the consciousness of the Minister who represents the Government here or the fact that there are 99 villages in such a small territory of the municipality of Tutin, the poor municipality. Imagine 90 people from 99 villages, and the farthest village is 41 kilometers away from the seat of Tutina. These are the villages of Boroštica and Bracak, villages which he cannot reach, Malten, to come, especially not in winter. You will again say that Article 7 does not mean that these people will travel away from their place of conduct when it comes to violations. I remind you, first of all, because of the public, because of the citizens of Tutin and the other citizens, that you have not accepted the amendments either to Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5, and now here and now 7, you are probably not going to be on Article 9. These are all amendments which we in the SRS advocate that this law and these laws do not make a negative contribution, i.e. not to contribute even worse and weaker development but to the poor municipality of Tutin. Indeed, the question is raised, to which you have not yet answered, Madam Minister, how will these people, who will need the services of the court for violations, meet their needs, how will they address the Council for Infringements, especially in the way that you have provided for the Higher Violent Court? One of my colleagues was talking about a short period of limitations when it comes to violations. That's true. I don't know if you realize that in 2008, in some winter period, when the snow falls, if a letter is sent from one village to the municipality of Tutin, if they have at all a post office counter, that letter can't reach Tutina in three, four or five days, let alone Novi Pazar or further, to Kragujevac, where you predicted the seat of the Higher Violent Court. It may be incomprehensible and incomprehensible to you, but believe me, it's true. There are no roads, no normal traffic, no more than one day bus connection with the seat of its municipality, let alone further. I've told you several times how this distance between Tutina and Novi Pazar, which is only 35 kilometers, but the road takes an hour and 15 minutes to drive. So, you had to take care of all these facts, as well as the fact that the people of Tuco are moving out and it's not good, not only in Tutin, but in all the municipalities where people usually run away, that in such municipalities you leave another hundred families without bread, or at least so many people without a job. They have no other solution than to go, to move, to move out of their homes, to move closer to Belgrade or not to know where. It is amazing, Mrs Malovic, that you do not want to understand the essence of these problems, the essence of these amendments. These are not the amendments that we have submitted for the sake of order, these are not the amendments that we wanted to obstruct in any way, delay the work of this Parliament, etc. No, these are the amendments that mean life to those people on the ground. Believe me, I hear from a lot of people in the Tutin municipality every day, all support these amendments, they expect us to convince you. But obviously, it's not going with you. We're trying to convince the congregation majority. We'll see how it turns out in the voting day. This is already the fifth or sixth time I have appealed to the conscience of the MPs who have tabled amendments – not to blackmail the government, not to blackmail Parliament, but to vote in accordance with the amendments they have tabled, to vote for their amendments, to vote against the law in general, unless all these amendments are passed. It's hard to choose here which amendment is more necessary, which is less necessary. The best solution is, definitely, if you don't want to withdraw the law from the procedure, and you would say you won't – then the amendment of Ms. Milice Radovic is. Accepting that amendment would overcome all the problems until the moment that some better conditions for some more drastic reform in the judiciary might arise. Now, in this year of economic crisis, social misery, in everything that awaits us, imagine a small municipality of Tutin, with 100 to 120 people who will be jobless, because you, Mrs Malovic, will not accept amendments from the SRS and colleagues from Tutin, whose amendment is now being spoken of by Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9538	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9539	In addition not only to this amendment, but also to the intensity of all the MPs who have submitted amendments to this law, one more thing has to be said, just as we reached the High Court of Infringement. If the provisions of the High Court are considered, it is found that these provisions are very similar to the provisions of the Court of Appeal; therefore, for you it is the same, the exact same pattern, the same logic. You, therefore, have reduced the total number of misdemeanor courts, making the exact same pattern as the basic courts, i.e., reducing the total number of infringement courts, opening up individual departments of misdemeanor courts in certain places, and leaving certain places completely absent from having a criminal court on their territory. Look, the nature of a criminal court is to deal with certain crimes. That delinquent, when it comes to a misdemeanor, is an illegal act that has a state sanction behind it. It is not a crime and is defined differently from a crime, but in order for a crime to be what it is, it is necessary to have certain specific deadlines. Obsolescence is different from infractions, and this suggests quick decision-making. This means that the infringement procedure must make a very quick decision and that the deadline for a decision by appeal must also be appropriate in order not to result in absolute obsolescence. When it comes, then, to a misdemeanor procedure and when it comes to courts, infringing courts that are about to arise, because somewhere by 2010, they are not expected to be, at all, and so far they are law enforcement authorities, I can't figure out what logic has made you rewrite the whole logic of the basic courts to the courts for violations. I don't get that at all. I wonder if anyone here knows what this is about. When you look at this section of the High Court, it turns out that there are only three departments of a higher criminal court, and these are departments in Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. So, you don't see anything else here, and you're talking about which area of the criminal courts there are these departments here and here, of course, we have what the areas of the criminal courts mean. Believe me, I don't know how you pictured it. I don't know who's been doing this misdemeanor projection for you and, in general, the role of the High Court of Violation in this instance?- I'm sorry. It seems to me, not to me, but I'm pretty sure this isn't going to work, and that's the point. It's not that we like it or not, not that we're against this, but in practice this isn't going to work well, so be assured. The argument of equating practice in reducing the number of courts can be an argument, I accept that, but in practice it won't work. You don't have a single health argument that makes this work. The exact same objection suffered by this part of the law, and that part of the law when it comes to basic courts. We're even kudicating it up there, but there's a higher temperature rising around basic courts, municipal courts in the country, than when it comes to infringing courts. Basically, these provisions are worse than those. Whether it's Tutin, or not Tutin, etc., that's a whole other thing. The problem is with the bill that you did not come up with an excuse for the strategy in question. You did not come out with a very clear explanation – which is why this network of court arrangements is created, both infringing and in these others and in which these criteria differ from the area to the area. What drove you to round certain areas in one way, and the other in another way, such as, when it comes to basic courts – which is why there are, for example, for the Borski District, two basic courts, and there are four municipalities, one basic court for the Southern District, and there are 12 municipalities? When we spoke today in Prokuplje, in the morning, the same question was asked yesterday, of course, and the previous days. So you don't have a healthy answer to that question. Because any number that would justify any logic in what you've given can oppose other numbers. When it's not about territory, size of territory, or passivity, then it's about the number of cases before the court, and vice versa. So there's no consistency. I therefore say to you that the best solution for the legislator of this law is to avoid these conflicts and one, after all, is a very long, painful debate, because it is certainly not easy, that is, this debate leads to one healthy convincing of one side and the other – to accept certain solutions; this would go somehow. I'm afraid that's not the case here. This turns into one burn, on the one hand and on the other, that doesn't lead to anything. I think the only correct reasoning is that this law is now withdrawn from the procedure. This can be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to sit with the professional public, to look at the analysis and to open these analyses to the public, to the professional public, and to the MPs; to meet on several occasions the Committee on Justice and to look at it peacefully. It is quite possible that this law in a different atmosphere, with a much smaller number of amendments, will always be objected and will be written by some amendment, therefore, to adopt, perhaps, in a month. That would be the only rational solution. This is how I fear we have the right, and you have experienced it from every opposition party, on this right hand side, or there was not only one opposition party who had thought to choke with these amendments, but rather all opposition parties, and even some MPs of the ruling coalition, and not a small number. So they are doing it precisely to send you a very clear message – what is not well done at the beginning, which suffers this many remarks, the correct thing is to withdraw from the procedure. It's the only logical and rational solution. Otherwise, we'll see. We shall burn ourselves on this matter with words, and we shall see after and after: when the day of the vote comes, we shall see how this thing develops. In any case, this is friendly advice, which does not go against anyone, but for the benefit of all of us and for the benefit of those who have chosen us, and for one side and for the other – to withdraw this bill and to see which would be a rational solution and with what justifications would these solutions be presented to the National Assembly. And these other laws have suffered proper objections, you've heard them, we don't think well about how it was done, but this, right to tell you, sounds quite scandalous. This has to be sort of solved. I now suggest one of the most effective and best ways to end this thing, and you, however you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9540	The word has an MP, Dr Nikola Krpić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9541	Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I won't talk much about what my colleagues have already said, but my voice is that, with Ms. Verice Radete's explanation, I only say a few more things. Everything she said stands. You see, when it comes to Tutin, one of the smallest municipalities in Serbia, where snows, garbage and low temperatures are certainly about five months a year, when no transport can be made to Tutin except on the hillback, there were problems when health and health problems were discussed. I'd like to ask Mrs. Secretary to speak to Mr. Minister for Health. There are appropriate principles where it can be a maternity home. Mr. Milosavljevic wouldn't accept it like this, orally, when we talked. However, he had a reson, he was our guest, we took him to Tutin and when he saw what and how he allowed it, and it was the only example in Serbia, to be an outpatient maternity home, for the simple reason it's impossible to get from Tutin to Pazar, which is 30 km away. Imagine if you need more etc. So these people are supposed to live there. There are 95% of the Muslim population and 5% of the others. It's a dissociative city, and if you can use your authority to make sure that what's scheduled for Tutin is realized, however. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9542	Thank you, Dr. Snack. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9543	For the sake of the public, I must say that this amendment applies to Article 7. A bill that regulates the departments of the Major Criminal Court. Of course, it refers to the territory of the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, for which Mr Riza shows interest, because it comes from there, but I must tell you that this amendment is in principle no different from the other amendments. And this amendment follows that previous amendment that Mr. Riza submitted to Article 2. The bill, and now counts on these two amendments being one whole; the first refers to the infringement court, and the second should, if adopted, follow the change and refer to the division of the Major Criminal Court in Nis, but there will probably be nothing, since this majority has already decided how to resolve these amendments. In general, for this topic today -- the organisation of all these courts, I will also rely on this amendment, in order to have a connection, so that Mr. Novakovic would not have a problem with some other MPs after me, but must point to the 2009 budget proposal. Please pay attention to what is written here. So, during 2009, there will be an existing judicial body organisation, because everything we have been talking about is likely to start to apply, at the request of the promoter, only on January 1st 2010. So, during 2009, there's an existing organization going, and now, please, pay attention. The Supreme Court now has 176 employees, it is estimated that by the end of 2009, it will have the same 176 employees. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has 33 employees, will be 33 by the end of 2009. The War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is 28, by the end of next year they'll be 28. The municipal authorities for violations, this is some pandan for what we have today and these days called a misdemeanor, it is impossible to literally compare, only as a orientation can be used, so the municipal authorities for violations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia now have 2,057 employees, and by the end of next year it will be 2,079, meaning 22 new ones should be employed. Please, given what they said – keep your jobs, and as some from the government said – the time has come to tighten the belt, here we see an increase in the number of employees, and as I understand Mladjan Dinkic, today someone was reading his interview, it is said that it is necessary to reduce, in general, the number of employees in the country. Here we have an increase and, just to draw your attention, they also took care of those who are going to stop some of these functions in 2009 within the judicial authorities, so they're going to hire a new one in that place, but here we have 22 new employees. Let's move on. The municipal courts currently have 6,829 employees in Serbia, which means that by the end of next year they will have 6,865, which means 40 new ones, with the fact that some will stop the court office, that someone will be elected, another 40. This is what I'm saying to make you understand the sense of this transformation, because in 2010, there will be a trend of layoff, a reduction, so you said in the context of the proposal for all of these laws, that a new scheme of judicial bodies implies, it seems to me, somewhere you said, about 400 and slightly less judges. (Snezana Malovic, from the place: The Court Guard... I'll get to the courthouse, she's in second position. Don't worry, I haven't forgotten. So we have an increase in municipal courts. We're talking about the number of employees here, I fenced myself, I didn't tell the judge, I told the number of employees. Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office – 627, only one more to be admitted next year. District courts – 1.810 and by the end of next year 1,812. District Public Prosecutor's Office - 279, and by the end of next year 281. The Council of Infractions, it's some pandan of all departments, plus the seat of this higher criminal court, so far, this second-degree procedure, and these departments and senior offenders are doing a second-degree procedure, we have 91 employees, and there's nothing changing. In trade courts, we currently have 843 employees and will not be here until the end of next year. The senior trade court is 72, so that's how long it'll be at the end of next year. Now there's an increase, it's something new, given that zero composition of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors; the High Council of the judiciary will receive the new 50 employees, and the State's Major Prosecutors will receive 22. It's about the existing structure of employees, with a tendency to be it by the end of next year, and we'll see there; of 12,845, it'll be at the end of 12,980, so 55 new ones within the judiciary. As for the existing municipal law enforcement authorities, as they do not change, they continue next year, they will spend 2.4 billion dinars, and as for the Major Crimes Council, it will spend 174 million dinars in 2009. It's now a pandan to this subject, I've extended it a little bit to municipal courts for violations and the Supreme Criminal Court. The senior criminal court will have its headquarters and three other departments, so that the cases do not move to Belgrade, dissociated. That logic is somewhat, I can't say prescribed, but in a similar way as it is characteristic of second-degree courts. We think this could have been completely different. This morning we had the opportunity to hear that several MPs had come out and said – those abroad are complaining about our judiciary and, when they complain, they think too much of trade courts, because they are allegedly unable to finish the job at the speed they want. I have to tell you that the speed they want to do business in one of our trade courts isn't the same as in their home state, that's where the procedure takes longer. They always talk about us – turbo speed, to finish a job with authority – foreign language, foreign company, and later it turns out that this company is registered at an airport, in a free zone, only has foreign names, foreign names, and these ours are afraid of these foreign names and names, because as soon as they see a foreign name, even if someone rejects English when they enter a court, they say – that's 100 percent CIA, BIA, MIA. Since they have absolute priority, it all ends. According to that criterion, Sartid left for 20 million, and the state took over a billion and some debt. I think it's the wrong argument to criticise our courts. However, there is one thing, one exposure here today was absolutely inappropriate to the National Assembly. I need to draw your attention that it does not say anywhere in our judicial regulations that a court, judge, prosecutor or prosecutor should not be criticised. If that were to be interpreted, then, in practice, there would be no public criticism, and then there is no telling where the public can control what the judiciary is doing. The public is authorized to control what the judiciary does. When I say - the public, I mean not just citizens, journalists, MPs, but absolutely everything. It must not be commented on the ongoing case, where evidence is being carried out, or some witnesses are yet to be heard, a first-degree verdict has yet to be reached, a appeal procedure has yet to be completed, a verdict by appeal, or, if it goes to an emergency remedy, eventually, later, although there is no need for extraordinary legal means. The ban on commenting, and it is understood that commenting can be an influence, takes up to justice. After justice, everything is subject to criticism. Today we had a chance to listen to one here, teach us how no one can call a judge. You can call yourself a judge, but when a case is over. When the case is over, the public can criticise it. It cannot change the verdict, because the public is not in the judicial system, has no authority, but can criticise, because if there were no criticism, then self-will in court would be far greater than it is in the Serbian government or any other executive body. The man started to brag about how he got some schools here, teach some lectures and demonstrate absolute ignorance. Speaking of which, I need to draw your attention that public criticism is gaining weight if, in a fairly identical legal or factual situation, only one court, or only one major court has decided otherwise than in 99% of other courts. Then there's something wrong. The public can rightly criticise, but it is a problem of another nature. The problem is that the prosecution has to use such information from the public and make sure that everything is okay in one such case, whether there are elements of a crime in these cases violation of the law by the judge. It is a very difficult work, and it is very hard to prove because, usually, judges are hiding behind that immunity and behind their right to give their opinion, their legal position on a legal issue. It's hard to find that thin line, but it's doubtless that this thin line is exceeded if 99% of courts decide on an identical legal matter in one way, and only one or two out of 130 and some courts, to narrow it down to a districtal, far fewer of these courts find it to decide in a different way, contrary to other courts, a team before a few months ago was held counseling where prosecutors and judges received a high-quality interpretation of how to apply the relevant provisions of the Law on Local Elections, above all, I mean an article. 46 to 56. After consulting the judiciary as judges in the future to apply that provision, as they first face one such law, 99% of the courts decided in one way, and then they found one or two, under certain conditions, to be three, the district court that completely differs, contrary to something that could be said to be already a case law. When they decided, the case was finished, finally completed, it could be commented, because you have nothing to influence, since the decision has already been made. It is forbidden to influence previously, in the decision-making phase, and when a decision is made, if there is no public criticism, especially in the National Assembly, which is probably the most objective, then the question is asked – what are we doing? Are we supposed to write regulations so we can all be a party in some procedure? That's impossible. As regards the specific amendment, it is likely to share the fate of the amendments made by the same applicant to Article 2. It probably won't be adopted, but if it's seen as a principle, it's a fully applied principle as for Tutin, as Kenan submitted for Priboy and these others... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Amendments submitted for senior court's departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9544	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Vice-President Natasa Jovanovic and Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9545	Mr. Vice President, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because that's the only way I can get, I hope, within the shortest time, a response from the Minister and the Justice Ministry, about the case Mr. Krasic spoke of, and what Mr. Jojic also spoke of today, on several occasions. It is about asking you to, as a competent minister, and on the basis of, apparently, the most flagrant violation of the Constitution and the Law on Local Elections, ask for an answer from that only court in the state of Serbia, the District Court in Kragujevac, on the basis of which he made such judgments, which he even writes on behalf of the people. On behalf of which people should the Constitution and the Law be trampled, the mandates of the SRS, the Kragujevac 10 parliamentary mandates, the Municipality of Knic 5 and Lapovo 3? So, colleagues from the DS, to you who are lawyers, and to you who are not, I can give this scandalous verdict to you. You will see for yourself that the judges of these two councils, led by this criminal at the head of the District Court, Miroljub Tomic, mock the law we have passed. They thus humiliate us as a legislative authority and say they will not respect the Constitution. They even go so far as to tell the committee who was authorized in the case of Lapov, the president of Serbian radicals, Mr. Zlatko Radic – come on, you are now in addition to your appeal. Madam Minister, it's a scandal, they're asking Mr. Radic to write in a complaint, and he made a nice appeal to Article 49. Law on local elections. Does he demand that the decision be annulled by the SO or complains that the Assembly has failed to make? I asked Mr. Secretary, and thank him for giving me this collection of regulations on local elections. The local elections authority in the town of Kragujevac, GIK, is unanimous, with members of the DS, it is your expert lawyer in Kragujevac, Mr Goran Ivanovic, who is a member of the resolution board of DS, who was once president of the GIK and who said – I will vote with two hands for this, find that the resignations, powers and contracts submitted by the SRS, i.e. my smallness as an authorised person, are valid, in accordance with Article 49. The law. To the court, since the Kragujevac City Assembly, because of this deal, Nikolic and Stevanović, did not want to, and DS said – well, we will not tear down our coalition agreement in Kragujevac, these 'gayots' already know that Stevanović's whisper, as soon as I mentioned you, your party, I forgot that you are from that mile, somehow do not fit in with that picture of Dinkic, they said – well, we know that you were doing the right, but here you are. Please, Mrs. Malovic, urgently ask for an answer, because this is what we're going to talk about every day. He's not responding to a republican public prosecutor, and I saw him show up the other day, he made a statement on state television, he's not responding to a municipal public prosecutor, this is the only place in Serbia. Kragujevac is a place where the road is closed to every democratic process and what is called the expressed people's will in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9546	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9547	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Malovic, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here, in the debate on this bill, following a comprehensive discussion on the proposal for a solution to the headquarters of economic courts, we are now discussing the Higher Violent Court. Certainly, the concept proposed here fully confirms all those discussions that have been led these days on that there are many contradictions and many inconsistencies when it comes to the concept of all kinds of courts that are defined in this important bill. The first illogicalness and absence of a more serious explanation by the government's representatives is the fact that this law provides for 45 misdemeanor courts and 34 basic courts. We, in the context of the discussion, have also repeatedly highlighted the technical equipment and capacities that have all 138 municipal courts, which now come down to 34 basic courts. At the same time, we also discussed the fact that there are a large number of municipalities with strong economic capacities, with a large number of inhabitants, with great development potentials, and we pointed out some unjustly left out of the list of municipalities that have basic courts, so that, in the absence of a more serious explanation, we would see that these same municipalities, one number of municipalities, more precisely, 11, have planned infringement courts, such as Arandelovac, Vienna, Bačka Palanka, Ruma, Trstenik, Lazarovac, Obrenovac, Mladenovac. These are the municipalities that should receive a misdemeanor according to this bill. When we ask ourselves, where is the criterion and why these municipalities don't have a basic court, we get no answer, no answer in terms of the application of the case, in terms of quality of decision making, technical conditions of work. We didn't get that kind of explanation from a government official. In the context of the discussion, I would like to point out that this is a very important law, which does not have its own aspects only when it comes to the judiciary, it is the most important one and that is its basic reason. It must be included in a complete picture of Serbia's development, in the country's overall strategy, when it comes to the development of certain regions and certain municipalities, of course, taking care of legal proposals already in place, such as the Law on Local Self-Government. We are facing a complete absence of criteria, that we have the Law on Local Self-Government, which this Parliament adopted in December of last year, 24 cities, and then we have 45 infringement courts, 34 basic courts, 16 commercial courts, which we discussed here about an hour and more ago, where, on the one hand, there is an explanation of the Law on Local Self-Government whether to encourage regional development through the strong economic development of certain cities, and then we have the fact that eight cities do not have an economic court. These are the things that the Ministry of Justice had to take into account, of course, by putting as a priority judicial reasons and role in the judiciary, but it cannot be seen separately from the overall state strategy of equal regional development and the development of certain regions. We did not get a convincing explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia why such a concept was proposed and why certain cities were defined in this bill so that they had a basic court, and others did not. One of them has both basic and higher, they don't have business. One of them has a mistrial, but they don't have a basic court. It's just that we can't understand what the key arguments and criteria were. We've only heard a few arguments that are, absolutely, not enough for one of these complex substances to be discussed here. Perhaps all the colleagues who discussed here, from the opposition, are primarily, but also from the position, that it was more important to implement such an important law serious public debate, which would include, in addition to the judicial public, which is the most critical of the proposed solutions, and the public, which also deals with the economic and regional development of certain parts of Serbia, including sociological and demographic, any other analysis that would be included here and which would show the consequences of such a law on the overall picture of certain cities. The fact that we have 45 misdemeanor courts, 34 basic courts, that 11 courts that have been left out of the court's list have received a misdemeanor court, points to a serious absence of the criteria in the adoption of this bill. That picture also includes a proposal in Article 7 that there are only three departments of the Major Criminal Court. If we have already defined that we have 26 higher courts and we wanted to define that the goal of certain urban continents is to become engines of development, a place that will affect the overall picture of the development of certain regions, is now individual multiple infringements, which have worked well and had good results, we remove and bring them down to only three major cities, such as Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. So this exhibit of mine is meant to expand the image of the consequences of applying this law from the field of justice. It cannot be reduced to the field of justice, it has a much larger, much wider context of observation of consequences, within the framework of laws, in many regions in Serbia. Please do not go into how it will be in the voting day, think, first, about all the amendments that we, as a parliamentary group, and a large number of opposition and positional MPs have submitted, to respect the arguments that we have raised, and, in the extreme line, if all of you, eventually, accepted amendments, are destroying the complete picture and the concept that you have proposed here, the best solution is to withdraw this law from the assembly procedure. These solutions cannot be seen separately from the state-level regional development strategy, because we have announcements from one ministry that, in the adoption of a proposal for a law on equal and regional development, we will have seven regions. Watch out for the confusion they're about to create, 45 misdemeanor courts, 34 basic courts, 26 higher, seven regions, 24 cities. There is simply no clear picture, a clear state strategy on this issue at this time in the country. You will only see what the proposal for a law on equal regional development will look like and what it will have to do with concepts and solutions, which have nothing to do with these courts. The judiciary is an important state institution and therefore I ask you to take our analysis seriously and our arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9548	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9549	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, who knows what day in a row, we are struggling to prove something that seems clear to all Serbian citizens, and to the professional public, and to the association of judges, and to God, and to European judges. I want to remind everyone here, and especially Mrs. Minister, that, when we got this bill, I was thinking, since until recently I was in the ruling coalition, honestly speaking, honestly, that this is one of the conditions, the passing of such a law, to so-called. the European map, on its way to Europe. Looking at the letter translated and sent by the Society of Judges, it is evident that European judges are asking for this law to be withdrawn, that this law is contrary to the opinion of the Venice Commission. Speaking of days on all these amendments, which I claim individual adoption of some of them cannot fix the law, which is generally bad, saying and supporting a colleague of Palalic, who spoke before me, watching the number of misdemeanors, basic courts, can be seen that there are no clear criteria here – why some city and some municipality have one court, and others do not. I wish for the best of intentions, Madam Minister, to gather courage, it is not too late, to withdraw this law. There are a lot of important things on the agenda, it's the budget, it's going to take a lot of days to adopt that budget. Many Serbian citizens will depend on that budget. We of the opposition will try to fix it, as we see it, after a few hours, that it is a matter of compromise. Please gather your courage and withdraw this law. This law is not in anyone's interest, not in yours. I will give you an example of what this law looks like and the way it was brought into the congregation and which, not God, will be adopted. A few years ago, as a member of DOS, or party belonging to DOS, it seems to me that you were then head of the cabinet of the then Minister of Justice, a law was proposed on trade courts, and in the city from which I came, which is the town of Cachak, the department of the Trade Court is being abolished. One of the provisions of the law is to abolish the Department of Trade Court, where there are 10,000 economic operators. It's not my intention to praise Chachak and his economy. It's my intention to tell you that the Trade Court has survived in Chačka. If you didn't know by now, here, in front of the whole public, I'll tell you. Co-operated with an older colleague from the DSS and asking him not to, that some amendment be accepted, that it is impossible for the Chamber of Commerce to be suspended, he advises me, speaking to the Minister of Justice at the time, to write an amendment that retains the Department of Trade Court in Chačka. Like all Chacans are smart, and I'm a little smart on them, I wrote to establish a trade court in Chačka. Nobody even looked, and that's how Chuck got the trade court. No one was watching, and it was adopted, fortunately by the citizens and all these businesses. As you represent this law, as you have brought it to us, it seems to me that someone has not analyzed it properly, nor considered it, nor found the arguments and criteria by which we have 34 basic courts, 40 and I don't know how many misdemeanor courts. I have given you only one letter I received, and most of the letters I received from the municipal boards of the ruling parties, believe me. If anyone makes me, I'll read it. Let me just tell you about the City Court in Mionica, which is being abolished, it still takes the investment of your ministry, the Ministry of Justice, in the building. There's been a court for 120 years. One of the ministers is there, it's an old Serbian-style building, renovated facades. You know what a municipal court means to a municipality, so it was as small as Mininica. This place is recognised in court. That's where people go to seek justice. Where are the human rights here? Where's the decentralisation? You say people won't travel. That's not true. It's going to travel 50, 60 kilometers, and it has to be said clearly. Please, to be honest, like that, it's still not the time. To rest you and to rest you, to go home, to know why we all, believe it or not, save you here, thank Lord God that it is so, withdraw this law and all will be satisfied, and the ruling coalition. They expect it, to tell you honestly, and they hope that someone will be smart in the government to remember finally that this law is withdrawn, so that we go to the agenda point -- trust the government, that we have as much time as possible to adopt the budget, which, in fact, the whole of Serbia is waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9550	National MP Siniša Stamenkovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Milovanovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Let's concentrate. I asked and no one answered. Just tell me who answered. According to Business, Mr Todorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 85, first position, don't count this on me, says – National Assembly meetings on proposals for laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts by the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, from 10 to 18 hours, with an end of one hour. Mr. Chairman, it is not by any chance that when you call whether there has been an error on the part of the amendment. You said yourself we should concentrate. I'm asking a simple question. What you're doing is against the Rules of Procedure. First, we know what time it is for the National Assembly to work. They had the opportunity to see that, more or less, the majority of the time we discussed today, in line with the draft agenda, the amendments, that the debate was quite tolerated, but you are bringing yourself into this position where the Serbian Parliament finds itself, pressed with problems and many laws that should be adopted in a very short time, and, objectively speaking, there is no possibility of that happening. We have warned that the budget awaits you, that because of this problem, which you failed to resolve in time, that the draft budget should come on December 1st, you will accuse MPs of stopping you on the way to Europe, obstructing the work of the Serbian Parliament, not allowing you to adopt reform laws and all for the sake of Serbia's citizens' well-being. I warn you to stop this harassment now, because 22 hours is the most decent time it means to work. We went out to meet you several times when the transmission was interrupted, so the transmissions were delayed because we had understanding. We can work things out, but there are limits, you have to understand. It's just that the violence you're applying won't go away. You can test it, but you'll get a chance to realize after that test that it's all for nothing. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, above all, you should respect the Rules of Procedure. If you are not ready to respect the Rules of Procedure, do not expect this from the opposition MPs. That's why we're going to start discussing the Rules of Procedure from this moment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9552	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9553	The article 85 speaks of how the National Assembly works and how it works. Do you know who you saw doing it after ten o'clock? From us, from the Democratic Party of Serbia. At the time you were the opposition, it was Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's first government. Then, on several occasions, perhaps more than a few, it worked really after ten in the evening; in some situations we worked until two or three in the morning. That's when the people used to call it "vampire session." The difference between these vampire sessions, which were on several occasions, they do well remember, is in the next – just once we tried, just once during that term, to do so by force, and then we failed. At one point, at some point, which is far from reasonable, it was about two o'clock in the morning, we had to stop. Every other time we did that, we did it by having someone go up to, then, the head of the SRS Group and we were trying to agree on a way to work. It was then the largest opposition group in Parliament. For these reasons, it was very important to agree with such a group on the regime of work. We presented the reasons why things should be accelerated and here, on a few occasions, we managed to reach some sort of silent agreement. So it happened that we were able to work on a matter that's on the agenda by twelve, or one in the middle of the night, and in the last term, we agreed to break the practice of the so-called vampire session. If we're going to open up "vampire sessions" again now, I don't mind, but first of all, it looks ugly for the citizens of Serbia and implies another thing, it implies that those who claim to be "black hole" are right, and that is what those of the Government of the Republic of Serbia who voted. In particular, I mean Boža Djelic, who, like his colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not deserve to be called either, because what the government did, or what it did, cannot be described, because it did nothing, and what it was meant to do, it did not. It's that black hole in the Republic of Serbia. That's what's a very big problem. You have a problem with the president of the state replacing the prime minister in his statements, saying something that has nothing to do with the role of the president of the state, and putting himself at the helm of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, informally. This is what is happening in the country of Serbia, and it is happening that individual proposals for the government law have not even come to the Serbian Parliament to be considered. It's more than 30 draft laws we haven't seen. The budget itself, the draft budget, which you've scrutinised as it is, we'll discuss it when it comes to the agenda, came with a normal delay, and that, unlike our common government... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Aligrudic. I'm done. I can't compare those reasons. Therefore, I ask you best to end this debate at a relatively reasonable time, according to an earlier unwritten agreement, it takes maximum to ten hours, and to continue tomorrow morning at ten. If you don't do it, and you don't have an agreement with the opposition to do it this way, in this regime, then I really don't know how you think you're gonna finish this job you started. It just doesn't work and we have to warn you. (President: 30 seconds) Don't say we didn't tell you that. I apologize for the interruption of time and thank you for your warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9554	Mr Milan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Petkovic, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I asked almost a month ago for an answer from the Resolute Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to a certain question. I'd like to ask the same questions for the second time today. I hope they arrive within 30 days. More than a month ago, I asked a few questions, and specifically, how many documents have been requested so far, and how many documents have been made available to the International War Crimes Prosecutor's Office in The Hague, and by some states, not to say, completely, all state institutions, and especially the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the Special Court of War Crimes, the police and other institutions? Also, I ask for an answer to the question of how many documents have been placed at the disposal of the Serb defences indicted before the same UN tribunal? I demand that I be answered and asked how much so far has been rejected by the UN tribunal's prosecutor's office of defence of the Serb defendants before the UN tribunal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9556	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a Vice-President of the National Assembly, Ms Natasa Jovanovic, and Mrs Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Novakovic, since we have now moved to work on these serious issues that are plagued by citizens of Serbia, as citizens watch Serbia's Second Radio Television Programme and transfer of the National Assembly, I ask for an answer, according to Rule 226, from the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, I think, the inspection supervision of the Ministry of Water and Agriculture, and as regards the new mafia in Serbia, which is called the "mother of the Mafia". You here have some brother-in-laws, some of whom represent, like the humorous Shoder Lists, alleged political figures, but this is a serious issue, and it's about gravel, sand that was exploited in the flows of the Drina and West Morava River. Last week, in the area of the municipality of Čačak, the locals MZ Mrčavci, Mršinci and Katrga, which is, by the way, the village of my origin, Mr Markicevic says that even though we are countrymen, we are now not going to claim it, as well as the locals of the entire municipality of Ljubovija, protested for the fact that the republican inspection authorities are doing nothing to prevent this mafia, which exploited the gravel and sand from these river streams, and not only that, but they are completely deforesting the entire fields, so neither Mr. Munjic, nor Mr. Markicevic, nor my family anymore have certain hectares, or are along the river. We're not important in this situation either. Other complexes of the country matter. You go and say, "Yeah, it's my grandfather's, now I'm going to take a walk to the Drina River, or West Morava, so you can see that there's nothing left in your legacy. How? Someone's been digging and coming in with the badgers. It's not that five-octobaric bugger, to be clear, it's some of the others from this, indeed, organized mob, which is gnawing huge money, and people are losing their estates. Not only that, this riverbed erosion, people who do this work and the profession, poses a great danger in every sense. I think the state of Serbia should deal seriously with this and the competent ministry. Therefore, I ask the question of the republican authorities, because this was the work of the government in Ljubljana, and the government in Cačka, where we coalition partners with the NS, DSS and SPS – how will this natural wealth, the wealth of our country of Serbia, be protected without being enormously enriched? Mr. Todorovic has launched all these cases, especially the 'Aeronomic Mafia' and Bojan Krist. We are seriously dealing with this issue, not only in these two municipalities, but in the area of all the municipalities that gravitate the coasts and Drina and West Morava, including the Great Morava. We'll get to that, be sure to get information on who's protecting that mob. If you think it's small money, it's small, you're wrong. It's huge money, speedboats, trucks go by, and that's why I repeat again, the locals of Katrga, Mršinci and Mrčaevci and the entire municipalities of Ljubovija have been protesting over the past month, asking for the state to stand in the way. As you kidnap the parliamentary mandates here, you take away the people of the Oran and the field with your care, and you do not protect the peasants, and you do everything possible to make their position difficult. I'm glad to see that here, in the O.R., I see colleagues who are following it, because this is a question and a topic that we're starting for the first time; we're going to have to deal with this seriously in the next period. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9558	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9559	Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, you just violated Article 104. Rules of Procedure, and two consecutive terms of 100. You violated Article 104 because you violated the dignity of the National Assembly when you ran over two amendments, and the MPs of the SRS reported to be talking about these amendments. After that, colleagues Ljubishi Petkovica did not know his name. What's he saying? It says that you are obviously exhausted, that you can no longer concentrate and that it would be good to call, let's say, Mrs. Comic, who, meanwhile, could continue to hold the presidency. Since you, Mr. Novakovic, spent the weekend at Divchibara on state spending and there making a law on the National Assembly, I expected you to rest, breathed fresh air, and at least you would be able to endure tonight to communicate with the MPs, as what your next injury should be, to take care of Article 100(3). Rules of Procedure. Article 3rd item of the 100th says the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation when the MP addresses the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've already had three MPs talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and whether you hear it or not, you don't care, you call the next one who raises the Rules of Procedure. You can't do that, Mr. Novakovic, to hold a session of Parliament. It does not comply with Article 27 either. If you're able to do this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, let's keep doing it. If you're not and Gordana Comic isn't here, then let's split up, and we'll continue working on the amendments tomorrow at 10 o'clock, the way it should be and how normal it is to do it. If you think that by exhausting the MPs of the people to get to one of your goals, you've made a mistake. Three minutes' time's up, so I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9560	Thank you. I apologized to Mr. Petkovic. I think he accepted my apology. As for the amendments, before you answered, I tried to apologize to all the MPs, because I really didn't see anyone answer the word. When I wanted to return to the amendment, to read it from the beginning, Mr Todorovic was given a word to the Rules of Procedure and that moment, simply, I have no alternative but to, according to the order of the announcement, give the word to the MPs. Interpreting about "choders" and other questions, I'm really not the one who owns it, which Mr. Markovic would say, to give. We will certainly insist that questions be addressed to the competent ministries, so anyone who has asked them will receive an answer. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9561	Mr. Novakovic, I'm not happy with the answer you gave. I ask that in the day of voting, the National Assembly be made known about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I expect all of my dear colleagues from the SRS will insist that in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's what Miss Natasa Jovanovic, Dragan Todorovic and Ljubisa Petkovic have already reported, and others will already say if they are unhappy. We have been so far, so go ahead, in the day of the vote, plead for the violations of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9562	Thank you. Of course, in the voting day, the Assembly will declare the injury you have pointed to. The word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure has MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 226, and I'm asking you to stop my time, because I'm going to quote the Rules of Procedure. "The MP has the right to ask for explanations and information from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues within the framework of the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP." You won't count on me for these 45 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the head of the Parliament Group has led the topic of crime and corruption at the Belgrade airport and since the Assembly has been discussing a number of violations and incredible crime, Bojan Kristo, as you know, escaped from Dusseldorf a week ago and lost every lead there. Today, Bojan Kristo, after guaranteeing him that he would not be arrested, appeared at Belgrade airport, concluded a work book, has not been filed against him, no thief has been arrested, and has left, will no longer appear at the Belgrade airport. The fact that Bojan Kristo was blackly enveloped by Belgrade Airport seems to be no longer interested in anyone. After all, we knew that it would happen when his boss, the party boss, started defending him so warmly – young, smart, hardworking, hardworking, only he didn't say he had so many sticky fingers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Bojan Kristo is just one cartoon on a huge scale called the crime of the ruling coalition. Bojan Kristo is the only one we've hacked and forced you to force him to step down from his post and no more robbery. There's no public enterprise, no businesses, nothing that you got your hands on that wasn't wrapped in black. The debate on corruption and crime will continue, and I'm sure you'll be at the budget session... I thought it was this much enthusiasm for my exposure, and that was Mrs. Gordana Komic. Since those 50 seconds don't count, because I was quoting, I'm asking the director of the Privatisation Agency, I'm asking the ministers, I'm asking the Prime Minister -- is it possible that another incredible robbery is coming, is it related to the privatisation of Genesis? Let me remind you, there were 40m euros first, so the second tender was on 23m, so it appeared, you know who – Miki Kostic, MK Komertz, was your director, the "yellow company". Since the time is up, I apologize for these two seconds, and I will report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9564	He wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, and he gets his word on Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9565	I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226. The state of justice in the Jablanic district is long known to the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice and, of course, nothing is done, because the Dossov authorities protect their personnel in the judiciary and as loyal as they are to the Dossov authorities, they will be able to steal the budget, or all the citizens of Serbia. Judges like this need to protect and guarantee human rights and property rights. If that were the case, I'd quote you one specific case, the Bear case. Judge of the Municipal Court for Infringements in Medveđa Snezana Radovic, in a mistrial against Petrovic Radoslav from Vrapac, for the violation of Article 226(1) of the Law on the Fundamentals of Traffic on Roads, and on the basis of Article. 84-118, 232, and 235. The law on violations and members of the Law on Amendments to the Law, which determines fines for commercial offences and violations, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia's 101/05, makes a solution on 26 April 2007. "The accused Petrovic Radoslav, of Father Radovan, by the profession of unqualified worker, unemployed, born 24.06.1933 in Vrapac, with the place of residence in Vrapac, is responsible for the fact that on 25.04.2007, in the period from 13.30 to 15.00 hours and from 16.00 to 17.15 hours, on the village road in Vrapac, he made a roadblock by preventing, that is to say, a tree tree about six meters long and about 10 cm thick, at 80 cm high. '"I want to realize that part of the surface has taken over and protected its property this time, and that the court is working on this finding that I said in the previous case. The defendant received a fine of 5,000 dinars. Since he is from the border area with Kosovo, he is weaker in property, a man had to serve ten days in prison. I think, on this basis and in the previous case, I've talked a lot, when it comes to legislative and judicial authority in the Jablanic district. We also have other organs that react in an extremely inappropriate way, and that is what Petrovic Radoslav said, that in 13/03/07, while he was staying in his house, in his corner, Officer Vukkovic Novak, with two other officers, came along, and on that occasion referred the words of the threat to his wife, Petrovic Jelisaveti, and to his son, Petrovic Ratko, that they would see theirs when they found them. So, in this case, you can see how dosos representatives dominate and exercise power in the midst of the powerless and poor population.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9566	You speak for three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9567	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9568	Dear People’s MPs, there are a total of 12 MPs who have signed up to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Among them are the two presidents of the parliamentary groups, so I now give my word to MP Milos Aligrudic. After him, the word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9569	It would have been completely inconsistencies of me if I'd thrown you out of place and said I didn't ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure, so I'm using this opportunity to tell you that you violated Article 27, because you're not having a session properly. I didn't ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure at all. I don't know who wrote that down for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9570	People's MP, I apologize to you. The list made by the National Assembly secretary is: Zoran Krasic, Dragan Stevanović, Milos Aligrudić, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Momir Markovic, Zoran Krasic, Dragan Stevanović, Momir Markovic, Radiša Ilic, Nada Kolundžija. I said I saw two presidents, the president and the president of the parliamentary group, and that was the basis, because you were registered on the list as the president of the parliamentary group before the President of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Hope Kolundzhia, who has a word. The word is Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9571	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I appeal to Articles 101, 103 and 104. Please preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. I call on all MPs to comply with Article 103, which says MPs are obliged to adhere to the agenda. The last MPs who spoke could hardly be told what could be defined as the agenda in general. Indeed, I ask you and I ask that in the day of voting we declare that the People's MP Ljubenović has violated the Rules of Procedure, and all MPs - that by our conduct, but also by the respect of the Rules of Procedure, we are doing what we are here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9572	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9573	Thank you. The base is fine. I'm calling for Article 27, because I don't think you're having a proper session. Now I'm talking about the recent violation of the Rules of Procedure you've done. You can't justify breaking the Rules of Procedure by someone leaving a list in front of you with the name of the MP who reportedly answered the word. That justification doesn't serve anything, that you show it in front of the cameras, some list you have, that Veljko Odalović hasn't crossed someone's name, someone who's already spoken, it doesn't make sense. What you do all the time, and that's what I've tried to point at, you'll probably do it tonight, you can't resist it, it's a drive, it's stronger than you – you like to flaunt with people's MPs sitting in benches. You have to do that. When someone throws something, or warns it, or punish it—well, that's fine, but then you break down with it. Then those who watch the broadcast, I've said it before, they only hear you talking to yourself. They don't hear these people sitting in benches. That's what you've done before. In order to avoid it, I answered, although you called me, to try to explain to this speaker that I did not answer the word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that you called me for nothing. Because if I'd tried to communicate with you from the parliamentary bench, I'd either get a warning, or a punishment, or you'd be running a monologue in the next half hour, so people wouldn't know what it's about. That's the point. Then, by taking away my word, you actually violated the Rules of Procedure yourself, so now I had to call back, otherwise I wouldn't have answered. That's what this is about. On the other hand, we have warned your predecessor, the chairman, when it comes to Article 27, and it is not just Article 27, but also Article 85. Working until 10:00, that's some convention. We made a deal and we said to tolerate it. It's been a hundred times in meetings of the heads of parliament. I repeat again. So far, in the previous term, when you, dear lady, were a member of the opposition in this House, on several occasions, I would say, more than a few, work late at night and spend hours after midnight. We once tried to do it without a deal with the opposition, and then we went bad. Of course, let's regret it, because we wasted so much time and the next day it wasn't working on the agenda. In many other cases we worked late in the evening, so that in certain situations, when it was very important, we negotiated with the largest opposition party at that time, to work late in the evening on amendments, which were running in some order, to catch a deadline, because we had a deadline for something to say. Some times we had no understanding, more often we didn't, and some times, in some situations, we had this kind of understanding, not to be let go and not to work on the amendments, but to work on the amendments, even if we were stuck late at night. Then in the last session, we had an agreement not to attend "vampire" sessions. We avoided that, and there was an unwritten rule to work until 10:00. You can try to do it after 22 hours, but that rehearsal requires one advance, which is a deal with opposition parties, which must be meaningful and must be seen as the reason for doing it by midnight tonight, one or two. There's got to be some deadline for something that stands out directly, to make it clear to everyone, so... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I would influence my colleagues to make it go faster. Thank you and I'm sorry I broke time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9574	There's no damage to article 27. You said you didn't ask for a word. You've told a lie to pardon with the MPs of the people. I only respect the Rules of Procedure, as it is written. When the MP reports that he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he is obliged to explain what the injury is involved in, and the chairman is obliged to, afterwards, to explain if he considers that the injury did not occur. Your word has not been taken from you, because the status has been taken away from the People's Messenger to whom it has been said - the first warning, then the first warning, the second warning, and then the confiscation of words, as measures of punishment, so that there is no violation of Article 27. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27 and Article 85. I believe, Mrs. Comic, since you are an outstanding knowledgeer of the Rules of Procedure, not only of the Rules of Procedure, but of the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, which you would say – what the writer meant, that you would agree to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure being carried out in the Serbian Parliament. Among other things, article 27 says that the president, or chairman of the National Assembly, is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Take care of this time in which I quote. Article 85 says, I repeat, since you were not at the beginning, when a warning for breach of the Rules of Procedure took place, the first position: "Sessions of the National Assembly at which legislation, development plan, spatial plan, budget, final account, Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Resolutions, Recommendations, Decisions, Conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly are held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, in time from 10 to 18:00, with an end of one hour." I now call on the fourth position, Mrs Comic, to pay attention, which says: "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly can decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days," this is the second day, which is Monday, with us already a practice, Monday and Friday, "or that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours, if there are justified reasons, which the president declares to the MPs". I am convinced, Mrs. Komic, that you will have to accept one fact, take, among other things, a stenogram. The President of the National Assembly, at a time when a session of the National Assembly was extended, she said, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but at no time at all, in a stenogram, one letter that she respected the Rules of Procedure and gave us reasonable reasons for extending the session over 22 hours. You have to understand one thing, it can happen that the session will be extended after 22 hours, but some MPs have warned you, you really have to state what the reason is. You didn't do it. How do you think you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, committing violence against the opposition? There's more of you, naturally, that's why you're positioning... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ( ) Refuse me the time I quoted, for over 55 seconds, I really looked at the clock. What do you mean you're doing it? To remind you that you have brutally trampled the Constitution, because you did not schedule a session of the Serbian Parliament during the extraordinary session, with a resolution proposed by 108 MPs, you are now violating the Rules of Procedure. Now, in every way possible, you look to abuse your majority, but you must understand the one of His – whose law lies in the topless, his tracks smell like a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mrs. Comic, give me an explanation and I urge the Assembly, in the day of the vote, to declare my requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9576	There's no damage to Article 27, as well as to Article 85. The explanation you pointed out, the agreement between the president of the parliamentary groups, that is, when at 16 o'clock to inform us that we will be working after 18 hours, based on the agreement of the president of the parliamentary groups, is either up to 20, or by 22 o'clock. There's no deal like that for today. The presidents of the parliamentary groups were informed, according to my information, by the President of the National Assembly, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic – that we are working today until the end of the debate in particular, and on the 6th item of the agenda, where we are currently discussing the details of Article 7, on the amendment submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Citing Articles 85, 1, 4 and 5, has already been the subject of calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. When working hours are extended, whether or not the president has explicitly called, we can identify it with a stenogram, I cannot argue, but it is an invitation to Article 85, item 5 – that it is after 18 hours, and until the debate is over. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I advertised attitude 4.) It is in application of Article 85(5), and the 4th position you have advertised is not applicable, in the procedure of this session, and cannot be violated. So we're working until the debate is over in detail. No right which the Messengers consider to have will be denied, and no right will be misused during this night's session. People's MP Milos Aligrudic reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9577	I think he's a injured member of the 85th Rules of Procedure. Because, you see, the position of the 5th, which you have just stated, says, "The President can extend the work of the National Assembly after 1800 hours, and only until the debate is completed in principle, or detail, on the starting point of the agenda." That attitude explains how many agenda points can be crossed if done after 18, and that's all. That's all he does. We've talked about this before, but it's not worth it to you, it says, or it explains when it's done. As attitude 5 speaks after 18 hours, the previous attitude speaks when it is done. The previous one says, "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly may decide that a session of the National Assembly is held for other days," means, except on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, "that is to say that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs." It's understood that it's here, not in the halls or in the cabinets. Which are justifiable reasons, as my predecessor pointed out, we didn't hear. We didn't hear them. It means that the president of the National Assembly, president of the National Assembly, has, however, violated the provisions of Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and you have thus violated it, because by her authority you are holding a session at this time. By doing so, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure violates, it's more than obvious. What's going on here? What would be important reasons, justifiable reasons, remains to be guessed. Is it because this session ends as soon as possible, so that the budget can come to the agenda? That may be a valid reason. But, you see, on the agenda, you have laws under emergency procedure, which enter into force on 1 January 2010. Instead of finding a solution in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to withdraw those laws that suffer enormous objections, such as the law that is on the agenda, to withdraw it from the procedure and to shorten this time, to discuss the budget of the Republic of Serbia, you insist that a completely inappropriate, scandalous law remain in the debate, which has caused dozens and dozens of amendments, which should be discussed well, a table of amendments, and I do not know how much, so that you now explain to us the conditions of Article 5, Article 85, which only speaks of what is discussed when it comes after 18 hours. That says attitude 5, not when. Paragraph 4 speaks, when and what conditions should be fulfilled. He says the president must state the reasons, such as the condition for the extension of work to 16 hours. That's one condition, a material condition. The second material condition is to say the reasons for this extension are justified. These two conditions have been set cumulatively by the Rules of Procedure, both of which must be met in order to have an extension of work after 18 hours. You were even in violation the second you continued your work after 18 hours. According to the towers in the Serbian Parliament, a debate was under way, a voice voiced that it would be working tonight by 9. It's just that people relax, they thought it would all be over by 9:00. Then we realized that you actually intend to work until the end point, because that's what you always say. Every time it was after 16, it was always said – until the end of the point, so the debate ends sometime by 9:00, or 8:00, because of the transfer, and continues tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9578	Three minutes and 30 seconds. There's no damage to article 85, I repeat. In the application of Article 85, Article 5 obliges the President, or the Chair of the National Assembly, to notify the MPs before 16 hours ago that they will be working after the scheduled hour of 18 hours, but only until the end of the period that is now on the agenda. 16 hours ago, that condition was met. At 18 o'clock, there was a debate on the agenda in particular and we will work until the debate ends in the details of the 6th item of the agenda. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9579	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I appeal to Article 85(4). Please concentrate. I have confidence in you that if you really were to unbiasedly interpret the Rules of Procedure, you would come to a very simple conclusion. Don't, please, call for attitude 5, 6. etc. and some members of the Rules of Procedure I never pointed to. I believe you can do this, but on one condition, be impartial. I think your role is to be impartial. There's one more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Kolundzija had just come out of this booth and asked us to find out in the voting day that Mr. Tomislav Ljubenović had violated the Rules of Procedure, because, in the opinion of Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, that we understand, that's her right, I have nothing against, in his presentation he was not precise enough which member of the Rules of Procedure was violated, or did not accurately state from whom he asked for a notice, etc. You can't use double arches, it really doesn't make sense. It's best, call the director's office, or these in shoes and sweatpants - picks up, kicks out and finish your job. But let the citizens see it. If you ask the opposition MPs to be more precise, to be specific, then you must, Mrs. Comic, and you. So now concentrate. This is Article 85(4), which says, "Extremely, the President of the National Assembly can decide that the National Assembly session is held for other days, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours", this is the case, and everything is clear so far, follow me carefully, Mrs. Komic, "if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs". Now we've come to this most important thing about Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure. It says – if there are reasonable reasons, which the president is telling the MPs. Mrs. Comic, we warn you, 16 hours ago, when the president of the Assembly extended the session's work, with no single word or sentence, he called on this member and said, "I am extending the session of the Serbian Parliament until the agenda ends," and then he said, "because tomorrow Solana is coming, these come from the EU." Everyone's waiting to see if you're ready to go to Europe, hold the stopwatches, and we need to show that we're mature, ready to go to Europe. Perhaps, for these and those, or for some other reason, we would accept. This way, Mrs. Comic, unfortunately not with your guilt, but only with the loyalty of the party you belong to, you are violating the harsh Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry for a little over time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9580	Article 85(4), which you are calling for to be broken is not applicable, is not subject to procedure. The working day shall be extended as every day, on the basis of Article 85(5). (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I thought you'd understand me. ) I understand you and every attempt to bind the position of Article 4, and Article 5, Article 85, simply, does not stand, because they refer to different situations. So, we are currently in session, because on the basis of Article 85, item 5 of the working day has been extended to the end of the debate that was on the agenda at 18 hours. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9581	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, I appeal to the article. 101, 103, and I just want to quote the first position of Article 103 - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I believe that those who are calling on the Rules of Procedure to talk about things that are not on the agenda, in fact, harshly violate this provision of the Rules of Procedure, abuse the fact that it is true that we have extended the work. The only thing that is true is that we have extended the work, and you know it very well, because at the meeting of the heads of Parliament clubs we talked about because we have deadlines, we have obligations, because this session is being held, too, by misusing the Rules of Procedure for an endless period of time, because hours and hours have been misused to talk about things that, absolutely, are not on the agenda. I don't think we need to convince the citizens what, in fact, it means what you're doing, they see it very well, but what's our obligation, it's that we don't let you do it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we're just asking to respect the Rules of Procedure. This is not the first time that the session has been extended, and we will extend it every time we have deadlines to finish a job that is in the interests of Serbian citizens, because the parliamentary majority is in charge of respecting the dignity of this assembly, respecting the competences and obligations of the National Assembly. I don't think there's any possibility that the parliamentary minority would object to not having enough space. All the space for this speaker, all these days and hours, was used by not even the parliamentary minority, but by one parliamentary group, which is the Serbian Radical Party. If you think you can blackmail, then you have a problem understanding your own position. We are ready to give maximum space, which, in accordance with previous agreements, goes beyond what is the point of the agenda, but you cannot stop the parliamentary majority from finishing a job that is in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9582	The remark that Article 103 has been violated, that is, that MPs who are being spoken of in the discussion of details do not speak of the agenda is an observation which, unfortunately, I have to respond negatively, because in 15 minutes, as much as every MP... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Please state in the voting day whether Hope Kolundžija has broken the Rules of Procedure). People's MPs, you have objections about what you're throwing out of the O.R., you're trying to keep 72 of us sitting here, and that's not possible. Of us 72, there's only one session that can be held and I'm begging you that we're in agreement here. So Article 103, which speaks of the obligation for MPs to speak about the agenda, is highly tolerated in each of the special exhibitions, and this can be seen from a stenogram. By safeguarding and safeguarding the right of MPs to justify by their own style the defence of the amendment, or the comment of the foreign amendment, there is no warning measure for breach of Article 103, nor has any MP been warned of not sticking to the agenda. As for members 101 and 104, the article 101 was used in the procedure when any MP asked for a replica, and Article 104, which speaks of the pronunciation, was not applied today, and that is my explanation why there are no injuries to the members quoted. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9583	You just violated article 27. The Rules of Procedure, and in my previous announcement, I have said that you like to flaunt with MPs sitting in MPs' benches, saying a series of sentences that are some kind of controversy, with someone people who follow the transmission of the National Assembly can't even hear. That's what you just did. It's just enough to remember your words, what happened two minutes ago, and you'll see that I was right, and you made a point to me to interpret it wrong. You can see you're doing it. Zhagor in the O.R., tossing out the MPs, especially if they are directed to you, as chairman, are not allowed, and I will agree with you there. Whoever of us does this, even me, if I do it some time, I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but there are certain measures that you have. You can use them through an oral reminder to the People's Messenger whom you point to, but some of the flat notes – you, some MPs, continue to comment on what you heard from the messenger benches, it is not correct and it is not good. I warn you best, and I've told you a few weeks ago, when we've been taking the Rules of Procedure's injury to this subject, yes, at least when it comes to you, I'll never miss saying what I think about how you're having a session, especially when you're violating the Rules of Procedure, no matter who you've done it to, according to which of the 248 MPs, I exempt you and me. This is how I point out to you this time that you have broken and injured the Rules of Procedure, the way you conduct the session, when it comes to Article 27. Read these provisions carefully, carefully read all other provisions that refer to sitting alone, giving and confiscating words, communicating with the MPs, and if you take a good look at it, you will see that there is a certain amount of incorrectness, sometimes and violations of the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to the way you chair. When it comes to this other thing, I'm not going to answer for the word "polyming" with Mrs. Kolundji, I don't need it, the woman said it correctly, with a good part of it, and I agree, I just think the wrong address is managed. Simply, the opposition cannot be blamed for the government's unhappiness and the ruling coalition and for their lack of law in the Assembly on time. We are under the obligation, according to this same Rules of Procedure, to work under the law and to submit amendments and to discuss them, with the exception that some times things happen to come out of the context of what is being discussed, but, as someone here said, the word 'parliament' means to answer – parlars, which means that some times it is worth discussing here and something that may not be on the agenda, which is to be discussed because of the public and citizens' interests, and some times also by the basis which, in fact, is in Article 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9584	There's no damage to article 27. I remind you, when you're looking for the word, that you can't get a word with an explanation that you also want to talk about the injury of article 27 and a brief replica. I thank you for the suggestions that the Rules of Procedure are strictly applied and I inform you that the way for which we have a silent agreement, the application of the Rules of Procedure will continue until this silent agreement is completely brutally broken on either side. I deeply believe that sentences are the worst thing that can be done in Parliament and only happens if there is no other space left, so at your suggestion that every violation of the Rules of Procedure, from where I sit, I respond with the measure from the Rules of Procedure, thank you, but no, thank you. I am convinced that 73 of us present, and 250 of us in total, are able to recognize the common interest, that this assembly is working and that this session takes place normally during. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I believed in you. Rightly so, you have rightly believed in me. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: I will conclude that, not you.) National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Due to a tactful agreement that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage, you must decide whether or not a silent agreement is in force? Yeah, sure. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9585	Please, in order to respect Article 27, which is why I am reporting again, we have once again witnessed your controversy with the MPs sitting in the benches... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9586	People's MP, in two presentations, you've led me to plow with the MPs of the people. I don't do that. You get the word that you are talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure and I am obliged to give you an explanation when I claim that a member of the Rules of Procedure is not injured and I am warning you to choose carefully the qualifications that apply to anyone, including the chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9587	Thank you for these remarks. I'll use another term. You recently had a verbal replica with Mr. Todorovic, who is sitting in the other row, so the MPs heard you, what you told him, but they didn't hear what he told you. That's what I wanted to tell you. That's exactly what I pointed out to avoid in the way we conduct the session. If there is such a need, we should give Mr. Todorovic a word to tell us what he had to say, so we can hear your answer, so that it makes sense. How this, through the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, will be carried out, you take care of it, but believe me, it's really not good to run it, I say, in a long-term way. I don't mean anything by it, so don't understand it, and don't defend yourself, there's no need. I stated this because I would draw attention to the fact that you have the right to explain whether there is, according to your interpretation, a breach of the Rules of Procedure which is indicated, or whether there is no such injury to the Rules of Procedure. If someone throws you or tells you something from the MP's bench, I do not advocate that you use the Rules of Procedure rigorously, but I am telling you that these are the measures at your disposal, but if you consider it to be one of the measures for you to say a series of sentences, or one sentence, as some kind of conversation with a MP who sits in parliamentary benches, that is not correct. That's what I'm telling you. I don't see any reason to be angry about it. What you can do, we don't even have to vote in voting day for this, no matter what you say now, you shouldn't be angry, you should stop doing it. I would be very happy here, as a People's MP, and I suppose a large number of MPs, because that would also introduce a little bit more order of action on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9588	Before I give an explanation, I'll also give an explanation to the MPs. The monitor system, which regulates the pay phone, or time, is currently out of service, so I am not shutting down the pay phone clock, but the secretary will record the time, so that no MP, who speaks in the meantime, will be denied for his three minutes, or 15 minutes. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: That is out of the question. We don't trust that. ) The explanation for the extent of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is that I do not have the right, but I have the duty, under Article 100, to give you an explanation if I consider that the member of the Rules of Procedure to which you call is not injured. Since I see, by the reactions of the MPs, that they have no confidence that time will be measured by the secretary of the National Assembly, I am giving a break of 10 minutes for the electronic system to be put into operation, so that there will be no doubt, respecting everyone's right to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the chairman is holding a session without violating any member of the Rules of Procedure. At 11:12 p.m., we continue our work today's session. [[After break, 23.10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I'm informing the MPs that the system is operational. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word in the debate in particular on Article 7? The People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9590	Mrs. Komic was a 12-minute break, not a 12-day break. You didn't forget where we left off. So, I'm advertising Article 85, and I'm asking Mr. Odalovic, Secretary of the National Assembly, a graduate lawyer, to you, ma'am, who has no legal knowledge, and obviously you haven't even learned the Rules of Procedure, explain that Articles 4 and 5 views of Articles 85. Rules of Procedure must be applied at the same time. Not only can it be said – the president can extend the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours, only until the debate is concluded in principle, i.e. with details of the starting point of the agenda. This can only be the result of the previous position, which he says - extremely, the National Assembly President can decide that the National Assembly session is held for other days, which is today, that is, that the National Assembly extends the work after 18 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president tells the MPs. You have heard more than one warning from your fellow MPs tonight that the conditions laid down in Article 85, Article 4, are not met. I will now, Mrs. Comic, remind you, I'm not sure if you've been in the O.R., I even believe you haven't, but whether or not you did or not, it happened like this. 16 hours ago, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said, in accordance with Article 85 of Article 4 – we are extending today's work. I asked her from the scene – how many hours? She said, "At 18 o'clock, we have consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and then we'll make a deal." Mrs. Komic, we insist that, in accordance with Article 27, you who are currently taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, in the next few minutes, perhaps ten, as long as it takes, bring and read to the MPs a part of the stenogram that concerns what I just said, and this is, literally, a quote. So we insist that we look at the stenogram, read it together, see who's right. There was no extension of the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there was no agreement with the heads of parliament, i.e. The deal wasn't reached, and it's like it wasn't even there. If you're going to apply legal violence, if you're going to continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, we're here, we're going to work, but we're going to see who gets bored. If you want to end what's on the agenda, then go ahead, work like the whole normal world, not to talk all night about the Rules of Procedure, so that Mrs. Kolundjia, who's about to enter, gives us lectures, but I'll talk about her in the next report, because I've just had time for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9591	There's no damage to Article 85, Item 5. The fact that no agreement has been reached with the presidents of the parliamentary groups is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, falls into respect of the silent or agreed arrangements reached. Since the agreement that we are working until the end today has not been reached with representatives of opposition parties, I think it is very clear that we are ready to work until the debate is over in detail. The Belief of Radeta, from the scene: that's what no one has said. ) I am informing you that we are working until the hearing is over in detail on this point, and on the basis of Article 85(5), and I remind you that the time of 20, or 22 hours is an agreement between the president of the parliamentary groups. No agreement has been reached today between the president of the parliamentary groups whether it will be 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 hours, however long as the president of the parliamentary groups agree on this as long as it is. Since there was no such agreement, I would like to inform you that tonight we will be working until the debate is over in detail, and on the basis of Article 85, as announced before 16 hours ago, that the session's work continues until the session's end of the debate point. We can continue with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. We can go back to the agenda. I can tell you that it would be better for the Assembly to reach an agreement by the president of the parliamentary groups, but, according to my information, it's not and this is the way we're going to work. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, I urge you to read Article 85(4) carefully. It is extremely important that you read this carefully and act in accordance with the request of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeta, to take a stenogram, and everything will be resolved. You simply cannot apply two arches when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. One archaic, when it comes to the MPs of the opposition, and the other, when it suits you, how you will interpret and work in the Rules of Procedure. Please, I am distracting you again – the position of the 4th article of the 85th is very precise and clear and obliges the chairman, beyond that cannot be crossed. Not to quote the whole attitude, I'm just going to tell you, he says -- it can be extended after 18 hours, if there are reasonable reasons for that, which the president tells the MPs. Mrs. Komic, I urge you to do what is simple, bring a stenogram and say, "Mrs. MPs, you are obstructing the work of the Serbian Parliament." The chairman, on the basis of the stenogram, said at 16 o'clock – there are reasonable reasons why we should extend today's session until the item on the agenda is completed, and then state the reasons. Any one of you can do it. I wouldn't get into it at all, whether you're in a hurry in Europe, at the cash register, at home, it doesn't matter at all. But there must be that reason. Mrs. Comic, when an MP comes out here to advertise the Rules of Procedure and raises a problem, but he doesn't do it the way a certain member is called upon, you're very precise, I won't say a more difficult word. If this is not done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to which the Member of Parliament has been called, you have either given a warning, or, more often, have warned that this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, etc. Why are you avoiding doing this now, when it comes to it, I don't mean you personally, but the President of the Assembly, who is obliged to stick to this Rules of Procedure? Please give us a stenogram to read exactly how at 16 o'clock Slavica Djukić-Dejanović said we will work today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9593	There's no damage to article 85. Stenogram of the National Assembly session, today, December 8, time 15,05 – 15,15: "I would like to inform you that we will be working longer than 1800 hours, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and to ask the heads of Parliament to hold a meeting at 6 p.m., we have one agreement, regarding the activities of our business and parliaments, in the coming days. The Belief of Radeta, from the scene: "How long till tonight?" We'll also discuss it at the meeting. That's why I'm asking the heads of Parliament or their deputies to be at my office at 6:00 p.m. to make a deal. "A deal which, from time to time, with less or more success, was made between representatives of the parliamentary groups, was not reached and we are applying Article 85 and we are working until the end of the debate in particular, points that were on the agenda at 18 hours. None of your rights, when I say yours, mean, the People's Messengers, will be denied, but no right will be misused. National MP Zoran Krasic wasn't in the O.R. at the time we started, and that was a reason not to call him, but to ask who wants a word in the discussion about the details, which the deputy president of the Parliament group said – you didn't forget that we were going to discuss in the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't 12 days ago, but 12 hours ago. I can't prove more strongly to you my obligation, rather than my wish, than my obligation, that all the rights you want to use are real and you have. The way I started it is only so that all MPs who were on the list to say the breach of the Rules of Procedure would be in the O.R. because I would have called any of the MPs to the end of the list. If there was any hope that I could convince you of that, I could prove it, but you have your rights that are inviolable. All 250 MPs. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9594	I'm sorry to have to tell you that my uninjured right has been injured. It's not a laugh. Be very serious. Everyone is guaranteed to work within the day for eight hours. If the employer doesn't respect it, then the labour inspector comes and punishes him. We're now in a position not to notify the inspection, and if the inspection comes, we don't know who to punish. I want to tell you that there is a big problem between Article 27 and Article 31. The conflict is that when a member of Article 31 gets very involved in the role of Article 27, we have this situation, which looks like the one where they voted from Bodrum, voted from Thessaloniki, overnight arrested people, without any warrant, any solution. I have to, for the sake of the viewers, who are usually getting ready to go to sleep at this time, because during the day, they ended everything they planned, to say that this was not about stubbornness, nor was it just about hitting onion. This is a very serious matter. There's not some empty tenacity or spite, although it's our national characteristic. This is about, first of all, the following: someone, on the left, has concluded, and this is Miki Rakic, Boris Tadic and the BIA Vukadinovic, that there is a need to further downplay the National Assembly, that it is unable to agree, even, on working time, in order to make the citizens sick of everything that is related to the National Assembly, and when that situation happens, then – the worse, the better. For who? For this third left-hand side. Of course we don't want to be involved in that prank. Just to draw your attention, and these days, 20 to 30 amendments a day were on the agenda and there were no problems. It's been up to 20 hours, if necessary, and by 22. There was this, if I may say, parliamentary agreement and something normal for work. However, now the situation is completely reversed. For another, about half an hour, EULEX occupied Kosovo and Metohija, according to Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, regardless of those six points. At the same time, a hoodlum walks around Croatia, accompanied by a police escort from the Croatian military, or police, tours Serbian areas and demonstrates his great concern that he is bleeding for Serbs anywhere. This is the simplest manipulation, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is a demonstration of primitiveism, prosaclysm and anti-civilization behavior of some people who have estranged from the parliamentary majority, rose above the parliamentary majority, trying to disabling this debate, but this Rules of Procedure allows us to talk about who sells drugs, who sells national interests, who finance which party. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9595	There is no violation of Article 27, and there is no violation of Article 31, which relates to the duties of the Vice-President of the Assembly, and I think we have explained how we take care of our working hours. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9596	Of course, Article 27. You see, a very short time ago, you read from a stenogram of what the president of the National Assembly said when she spoke about the extension of work after 18 hours and what was added by the Parliament of the People's Parliament of the Republic of Radet, and what, again, the President of the National Assembly responded to that. I believe you've read it correctly. We have come to the fact that he was and is a broken member of the 85th position of the 4th Rules of Procedure, which was clearly seen from what you have read, because that is where he stands – extremely, the president of the National Assembly can decide that the session of the National Assembly is held for other days, that is to say, that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18 hours, if there are reasonable reasons for that, which the president declares to the MPs. It was clear, therefore, that the president of the National Assembly did not tell the MPs who were justified for reasons, so one of the two cumulative conditions for the work to be extended after 18 hours was not fulfilled. What we've been doing and after 18 hours has nothing to do with it, it has to do with something called elemental decency. Hearing that the work was extended after 18 hours, we accepted it as a fact, given something that has been regular so far. So, there was no breach of reasonable time, which was previously accepted, it was about 9 or 10 o'clock in the evening. The fact that no agreement has been reached between the heads of the groups and the president of the National Assembly on how many hours will be done and what can then be interpreted, in your opinion, that they will be working until the end, or until the end of the point, even if it is in five days, it doesn't matter at all. That, first of all, is not exactly the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it's not the correct interpretation, we'll come back to that later, when the time comes. Now I'm telling you, she's old, she's a folk. What's she ashamed of? You know, when there's no deal, it implies there's a passion on the part of the ruling majority. So, you've admitted a few things by now. You have admitted that the position of Article 4, Article 85, has been violated, you have admitted that in part, the passion of the ruling majority is in the absence of an agreement with the opposition, when it comes to the regime of work; I am not talking about anything else, no one here is destroying the government, nor is it challenging the ruling majority, but it is about sensitivity in the work. The passion of work is not a category of Rules of Procedure and I will agree with you here, since I know in advance what you will say, but it is something that Serbian citizens should hear, it is something that must be clear to all. If there wasn't this passion, or if that passion had remained in this misunderstanding, and the misunderstanding was a bad thing in itself, the deal was a good thing, if it had been left or there had been some deal, or if it had been done within the limits of some reason tonight, then probably, I admit right now, we wouldn't even point to Article 4, Article 85, although there was no doubt, but we would have kept it quiet, for reasons of correctness... (President: three minutes 30 seconds. I was quoting the provisions only, I'm sorry. That's it for now, so we'll move on later.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9597	People's MP, when you point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I ask you to point to that breach, not to breach of the unwritten or silent arrangements and rules. So, if we are going to appeal to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, then I ask you to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you consider that the Rules of Procedure has been broken because something that does not appear in the Rules of Procedure is not respected, and that is a good practice and the president of the National Assembly of Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, and the previous President Oliver Dulic, and President Predrag Markovic, that an agreement is reached in meetings with the presidents of the parliamentary groups on how many hours is being done. Since such an agreement has not been reached, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is a matter of will, legal and legitimate, president of the opposition parliamentary groups that they do not want to reach an agreement. Since article 85 is clear, we are working after 18 hours, until the end of the debate in particular, or principle, in this case, in particular, the item that was on the agenda at 18 hours, which the president of the National Assembly, and according to the read stenogram, informed in time, between 15.05 and 15.15 hours, the MPs of the National Assembly. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9598	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I believe you can in these few sentences you read to justify or find what you claim. If you can't understand it, we can understand it, but this time is long gone, you can't concentrate anymore, you believe something that was, but it doesn't say it here. Here, Mrs. Comic, I will be very precise and ask you to listen to the stenogram: "I wanted to inform you that we will work longer than 1800 hours, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and to ask the heads of the parliamentary groups that at 6 p.m., the meeting will be held, we have one agreement concerning our activities, business and parliamentary activities, in the coming days," that I do not read any further. The question arises, Mrs. Comic, did the president of the Assembly say in this part that we will work until the end of the agenda? If you find it here, let's do it, my people, but it's not. So she didn't mention it. He says we'll also discuss it at the meeting, so I'd like to ask the heads of Parliament at 18 o'clock, or their deputies, to be at my meeting, to make a deal. Look, we went to this deal, we couldn't agree, and the president of the assembly was obliged to, in accordance with Article 85, and that it stands in the stenogram, Mrs. Comic, not that you believe that Slavica Djukic said, but that in the stenogram, there are justifiable reasons, so that she could state one valid reason. And we, what to do, the Rules of Procedure is what it is, can be justified or not, but it has to be listed. Please, Mrs Comic, for the sake of Serbian citizens, and also for the sake of us MPs here, as you read what it says, to read where it is listed in this stenogram – by the end of the agenda, plus, which are justifiable reasons why we should do so until the end of the agenda. Otherwise, this is all pointless, it really doesn't make sense to act like this and try to carry out some of your intentions by terror. I'm sorry, please, at this extension, but I hope I spent exactly that much on quoting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9599	When you read the stenogram carefully, you can see that there is no injury to which you call. Article 85(5) is in force because no agreement has been reached by the president of the parliamentary groups. If an agreement had been reached between the presidents of the parliamentary groups, then the agreement would have been valid and it had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure and any member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It has to do with the mutual relations between the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority in the National Assembly. Since that agreement has not been reached, Article 85(5) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure, according to which the National Assembly has been informed that today the Assembly will work after 18 hours and until the debate is over. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Where does it say?) ) On repeated questions – where it writes, once again reading the stenogram: "I would like to inform you that we will work longer than 16.00 hours, in accordance with Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and if I ask the heads of the parliamentary groups that at 6 p.m., the meeting will be held. We have one deal, regarding our activities, business and MPs, in the coming days. The Belief of Radet, from place – until when tonight? We'll also discuss it at the meeting, so I'd like to ask the heads of Parliament or their deputies to be at my office at 6:00 p.m. to make an appointment. "And you, like me, have information that the agreement on the clock, and after the work extended after 18 hours, the presidents of the parliamentary groups did not reach out. Therefore, Article 85(5) is applicable – that it is the end of the debate in detail on point 6. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9600	Art. 27 refers to the Presidency of the National Assembly, 104, to something that actually doesn't deserve a replica, but such a harsh reaction within the meaning of Article 104. When you interpret what I just said, it's no longer the wrong interpretation because we didn't get along well. I can't believe that. You do it on purpose and you insult me. What exactly did you do? You said I couldn't call for a lack of agreement between the heads of Parliament as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's amazing. That's not what I called myself. I've called for a violation of Article 4, Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, and I was talking about the lack of agreement, the passion of the ruling majority and the disrespect of some of the fundamental rules of the game, which have nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, I pointed out, just to describe the situation in which we found ourselves, and I did so to make it clearer to people, to make it clear to myself the injury I point out. What's the injury? It's an injury, and I have to tell you again, it's actually what I'm saying, that the president of the National Assembly, 16 hours ago, when she said she'd be working after 18 hours, she didn't do at least two things. The first thing, she didn't say what those reasons were, which are justifiable reasons, as it stands in the position of Article 4, Article 85, because she had to say it. When she didn't say it, she didn't state the reasons. Therefore, the conditions for the extension of work have not been met. What I've been explaining here has something to do with it, in an indirect way. I said that we wouldn't, nor would I ever answer to talk about this breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would keep that fact quiet, if she, as the lawyers say, had been convalitated, had there been correctness in each other's relations afterwards. You point out yourself, saying about what you know to be, what your findings are, at the meeting of the heads of parliament, that this correctness is lagging behind, so now, by saying that this correctness is lagging behind, you feel that it should be freely, heroically, in violation of the provisions of Rule 4 of Rule 85 of this Rules of Procedure. That's not normal. That's what I pointed to. That's why I think you've hurt Article 104 because I can't believe that after such a discussion of the violation of this provision by the Members of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't understand what we're talking about. Anyway, what are you doing? You deliberately twist the words of your fellow MPs who come out to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure for this speaker, interpret them wrong, to get the impression of those who watch this transmission if we said something else compared to who we are. It's not correct and it's not fair. Otherwise, Article 27 has been injured, along with the provision of Article 85, which I have kindly pointed out to you by quoting again part of this provision. I think it must be appreciated. The cumulative conditions of Article 85 have not been met to work after 18 hours. If there were any correctness in the course of action, we'd probably just shut up about it. That's what I was talking about. When I talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've quoted you correctly and given you an explanation which makes me think that this provision has been violated and that we can't actually work anymore tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9601	No injured member 27, no member 104, no member 85 position 5, and what can you ask us to say in the voting day, I mean this last one. In the voting day, we will declare the request of MP Milos Aligrudic that article 85, paragraph 5, has been broken. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called earlier, but, well, the circumstances were like that. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and I believe that a member of 104 has been injured by Mrs Nada Kolundzi, president of the ZES Parliamentary Group. Somehow, what she said was left in the shadow of the debate about whether today was about whether we should continue the session in these late hours or not. Namely, Mrs. Comic, I also reported in the context of this sentence of yours that we all have inviolable rights. Mrs. Kolundzija said tonight in her presentation, or second speech for this speaker, she would not allow the congregation minority to stop her from working in the interests of the citizens. For us, Mrs. Kolundjia, and for all the citizens of this country, it would be best to stop worrying about these citizens a little bit. I totally understand why you're nervous. I'll ask you, since you're taking care of the citizens, when did the budget come to your assembly? Say it. He came with how many days late. I'm going to ask you, Mrs. Nado Kolundjio, who's to blame for this freak law having so many amendments? Are representatives of the minority, or representatives of the government and government? Who's to blame that, after eight years, everything you haven't done you want to do in two or three, five or six months? It's no one else's fault but you sitting on that left side. I fully understand your anger and your anger, but we are not obliged to put up with it. I think you should be measured when you go out for this pay phone and don't give us lessons like students. You can do that at the MP's club, no one's going to usurp you that right, no one's going to challenge you. Objectively, we don't deserve it from you, in the name of the Rules of Procedure that you're trying to govern, obviously, failed. Mrs. Kolundjia, no one is stopping you from being the victims of an incompetent and irresponsible government, so be it. The wrath that you have in you for this, we who belong to the congregation minority, are not obliged to endure. Pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure on your part, I ask you not to disrespect us anymore, that you do not give yourself the right to behave so arrogantly, impertinently. We don't have to put up with it. As for the government, the government's parliamentary majority, how effective you are, here's the last law. I'll finish, Mrs. Comic. We are our determination to be constructive today while this was a reasonable and normal time. After eight, or 10 hours, no one in their right would give you the right to do what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9603	People's MP, if there had been any injuries to article 104, I would have given her a warning or a warning. Since that didn't happen, do you want us to make a statement on your remarks in the voting day? (Yes) In the day for the vote of the Assembly, please make a statement on the remarks of MP Dragan Stevanovic. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9604	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, regardless of the remarks made by the chairman, were severely violated by a member of the 85th today. Madam Chairman, I'm now going to quote the views of article 85, take that into account. "Employment meetings of the National Assembly, which are held on draft laws, development plans, spatial plans, budgets, final accounts, Rules of Procedure, declarations, resolutions, recommendations, decisions, conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts brought by the National Assembly, are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, between 10.00 and 18:00 hours, with an end of one hour. "The position of the 4th member of the 85th says: "Extremely, the president of the National Assembly can decide that the session of the National Assembly is held for other days." So, it's an extraordinary job today, compared to the Rules of Procedure prescribed working hours, or working days, on Mondays. It is then said: "or that the National Assembly extends the work and after 1800 hours", meaning, exceptionally, it can, on Mondays and after 18 hours, 'if there are justifiable reasons, which the president declares to the MPs.' Today, extremely Monday, instead of Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, is extremely, after 18 hours, not specified until the president of the National Assembly has explained why we will be working after 18 hours. Meanwhile, the ruling majority's MPs left 14, i.e. 15 MPs and two observers. Madam Chairman, Article 85. The Rules of Procedure have been harshly broken, the MPs tell you all the time, from 10 o'clock to this moment, and they haven't been able to tell you, here, in what minute will it be until today, because a new working day begins.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9605	There's no damage to article 85. I think it was explained during the session. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Yes) In the voting day, the assembly will declare the request of MP Momir Markovic for violation of Article 85(5). The word is by MP Radisa Ilic, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Rule 226. As a People's MP, I have the right to inform and explain, in this case, from the Privatisation Agency, and I need explanations to be able to carry out the function of the MP. What's this about? It's the fate of 700 Serbian glass factory workers from Paracino. To remind you, two years ago, the Serbian glass factory was sold to a buyer from Bulgaria for only 100,000 euros. However, two years end on 16 February and 700 workers of the "Serbian glass factory" are referred to on a forced vacation, on paid leave. There's a big robbery going on for the worker of the Serbian glass factory. What's this about? Workers are forced to sign a blanco agreement on the termination of a working relationship at the "Serbian Glass Factory" AD Paracin and to establish a working relationship with them at a secondary company in the "Serbian Glass Factory". I'm asking the Privatisation Agency to give me an explanation, as a folk MP, so I can pass on that explanation to the scared workers of the Serbian Glass Factory, about whether their robbery is coming up, because on the basis of a buy-in contract, if they lose the deal with the Serbian Glass Factory, and if they're no longer in labor, they'll lose their right to severance. Workers were likely listening to the president of the Republic, who advised them to defend their jobs. However, they came across a closed door everywhere. In local self-government, labour inspection is not responding, no one has responded from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Workers' rights under the purchase contract with a Bulgarian buyer were roughly violated on this occasion. So, I'm asking for an answer from the Privatisation Agency on the issue of labour rights violations at the "Serbian Glass Factory". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9607	The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9608	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I appeal to Article 85, paragraph 6. Listen well, I'm sure you're a clean logicist and you'll be able to come to the conclusion of what's in this Rules of Procedure and what's wanted by this attitude of article 85. He is very simple: "The extension of the session after 16.00 hours, the president is obliged to inform the National Assembly no later than 4:00 a.m. on the day of the session for which he proposes an extension of work." I'm sure you can do anything, absolutely anything, but be careful, Mrs. Comic, don't, please, let me down this time, I really hope in you. So he says here, "on the day of the session he proposes to extend his work." If we all agree that the Rules of Procedure meant today, Monday, it is understood that it can't be Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, because that could mean, roughly, you start on Monday, as we started today, and then the President of the Assembly says - we extend the work, and that's understood - as long as it suits you, until you reach the goal you intend to achieve. Please, since you have time, that day expires, here, this is an official watch, which is consistent, I remember that we have had problems due to the clock in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have the opportunity to follow the day... Mrs. Kolundzija, listen, help Mrs. Komic, you've brought her into an awkward situation. So, it stands out a day that was possible for you to extend the session and please read as it says and interpret in a logical way. I really believe that you will do it, or, otherwise, to adopt a rule that will apply in the future – when the session of the Serbian Parliament begins, it will last until you say so – the phonont. Please do this with article 85 item 6 – the working day for which the session is extended is over. We're already 17 seconds on Tuesday. Today we're going to start workday at 10:00, so you re-extended it, it's not a problem, but yesterday's workday is over. Thank you very much. Gentlemen, we can go home.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9609	The article you quoted was in use today between 15.05 and 15.15, when you were informed of the extension. (Dragan Todorovic, from town: That was yesterday. The last minute of Monday, December 8, expires. So there's no harm done to a member of the Rules of Procedure. You have been informed of an extension between 15.05 and 15.15 on the day of the session. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Today is Tuesday. ) National MPs, a member of the 85th and 6th centuries, are the basis for which we are working today. The MP's throwing it away on Wednesday. If you want us to waste our time on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to prove to each other that we can wear ourselves out in the debate, that's your right and that's unhurtable. Therefore, Article 85(6) you called upon, understanding that it could not be transferred to the second date, reads: "The extension of the session after 18:00 hours, the president is required to inform the National Assembly no later than 1600 on the day of the session, which took place on Monday, 8 December, on a stenogram between 15.05 and 15.15. Now we're in a session which, on that basis, has been extended. It was extended on the basis of Article 85(5), and by the end of the debate in detail on the agenda item which was on the agenda at 18 hours. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Article 100(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9610	I call on Article 103, which obliges the Members of Parliament to speak on the agenda points. I just want to say that Article 85 of Section 6 speaks, in fact, about the extension of the work the president or the chairman is not obliged to notify the day earlier, but in that day, until 16 o'clock. That's quite clear. This attempt at new ingenuity, trying to find a new excuse so that we don't work in the agenda, is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9611	The National Parliament did not highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure and did not damage the Rules of Procedure in Article 85(6). So, the announcement by the chairman gives up to 16 hours on the day of the session and the notice given, because no unwritten agreement has been reached between the president of the parliamentary groups, is that, Article 85 paragraph 5 - we are working until the hearing is over in detail, and by the 6th item of the agenda, which was on the agenda Monday, 8 December. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, and he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9612	Article 27 obliges you to apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as well as the provision of Article 85(6), item 5, item 4, item 3, item 2, item 1, for the simple reason that today was December 9th, and the extension of the work applied to December 8th. I will simply prove to you that my colleague, Hope Kolundji, is not right, nor are you right when, firstly, you deliberately quote part of the provision, and don't read it to the end, so I will read it to the end of the provision. "On the extension of the session after 6:00 p.m., the president is required to inform the National Assembly no later than 4:00 p.m. on the day of the session", and you left this out: "for which he proposes an extension of work". It would seem to you that the time of the extension of the work can last indefinitely. In theory, if we were to discuss the injury of the Rules of Procedure this way, we could do it by the New Year's, and that's not possible, because today is the new working day - December 9th. It's impossible to interpret differently. Do you know why we've been working after 12 hours? I'll remind you of that when you're talking about agreements that have failed. We've been working since midnight. It happened that the opposition kept a close eye on it and did not make this remark, for reasons of correctness, because it was an effective agreement to end something. You are now boasting that no agreement has been reached. I'm sorry, if it's an art, if it's a skill of the ruling coalition, not to reach any deal with the opposition, then you should be willing to suffer the consequences of strict respect for the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, to the truth of will, did not strictly respect, even at the time of our ruling majority, when we were together, or, before, when you were opposition, and we were with some other parties in power, because the opposition tolerated us in certain cases and did not make this remark. We rightly point out this remark now that we see that there is no tolerance. I'm sorry, that you've forgotten that there is a need for communication in the National Assembly with MPs' groups and for an agreement on such matters to be made, does not mean that we should suffer here the consequences of a misunderstanding whose vindictee is the ruling coalition, because there is a majority. Of course, that doesn't mean that now I need, in return, to say that everything is fine and that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. There is. It's a good quote, and I quote, "The extension of the session after 6:00 p.m., the president is obliged to inform the National Assembly no later than 4:00 p.m. on the day of the session", that's what you said, "for which he proposes an extension of the work". Goodbye, that was December 8th. Of course, no later than the end point. That's the meaning of Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9613	No damage to article 85, no bet 5, no bet 6. Do you want to make the Parliament's vote on that in the day of voting? (Yes) The assembly will declare in the voting day an objection brought by MP Milos Aligrudic to article 85. The word has a folk MP Marina Ragush, because she wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and she gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9614	I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure governing the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Komic, I want to thank you for your correct political stance, because you finally see that the opposition does not obstruct the work by misusing the members of the Rules of Procedure, but by using the right guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure. Today is December 9th, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, today is the day when EULEX is illegally installed in the entire KIM territory. Today is the day when an enigma of what was actually going on behind closed doors is truly revealed, related to the negotiations of the Serbian state summit. Today, we also learned that the fate of the exiled, the missing and the killed, those whose organs had been played by the Ship's terrorists, we will never know. Today is also the day when people in Serbia testify to the full will of the ruling majority. Today is also the day in Serbia that half a million people live below the minimum poverty line. Today is also the day Serbian citizens are due to see power in Serbia. This is total tyranny, an example of the tyranny of the government over the opposition. What this parliament should discuss is next. We don't need an election, because your state project -- breaking the opposition in Serbia. The electoral will is most drastically overrun several months after the election. So we should disband a parliament where there are no government ministers -- which will talk about the recession that is coming to us in 2009. We really don't need a parliament in which we won't give a platform for negotiations and policymaking, a parliament that will play like this. Just tell us, what moment are we today, or the previous days, all stopped being human? What's the point? Is the purpose of correct amendments to fix the completely wrong laws, or have we lost what citizens have given us in the elections, which is – trying to introduce a rule of law into Serbia, improving the everyday life of a man in Serbia. What's the point of this? We can make it this way by morning. But give me one reason, one reason why we're breaking the Rules of Procedure, why we worked today, or yesterday, and it was Monday? Convince me, because he's beyond reasonable doubt. I apologize for this overrun, but I haven't finished thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9615	People's MPs, I ask you to define an explanation request. You called in an article. 225 and 226 and you haven't sent anyone any explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9616	Yeah, that's right. Here, I'm asking the president of the National Assembly, since she's not present, I'm asking you for the next explanation. Give me one rational reason why this savagery in the congregation? What's the point of this work, when no one can rationally judge anymore? Tell me, on what basis did you all, the ruling majority MPs, violate a 60th member who guarantees normal working conditions? You here, people who have passed even the 50th year of life, derogate health. You're derogating him to me, and it's broken. So we're really going to have to here, using rights and international institutions, to fight for basic human rights. So I'm looking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9617	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on Article 100(1). People's MP Marina Ragush, I think an explanation has been given in the course of pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, the Assembly is currently at work, without harming the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9618	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 104. In a previous presentation, the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly. So, Mrs. Hope Kolundjia said that we're pulling this session. Mrs. Kolundjia, for a few days we've been discussing a law that doesn't make any sense, a law that has 19 members and 134 amendments. Who wrote those amendments? Did only the opposition write them, or did the MPs also write the ruling coalition? Did they drag this session too? They're not? Then what were you thinking, how are we holding up the session? Secondly, during the meeting of Mr. Vice-Presidents, the opposition's MPs were not given a word by amendment on two occasions. Are we rescheduling the session? Especially us at the DSS, when we don't get to talk about the amendment? So, what do you want from us? Let's get out of the O.R., is that your goal? (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: After you've been expelled from the O.R., will again. You did that once. You want to do it again? Say it in public. Come out and say it. So you're not even letting me work on the agenda. I warn you of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, explain what the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and – what do you expect from us? Should we get out of the O.R. and let you guys go wild in here? Well, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9619	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. With my best wishes, I'm in no position to do this. This is the position of Article 2, which implies giving an explanation to MP Milan Dimitrijevic, because I did not understand at all what he was called for as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'll get a chance. They're warning me, "what." Yes, it is. What is it called for? So you will have the opportunity to say again on the same basis, because I failed to understand – no member, no one you are calling for, and I am unable to explain whether or not a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I can take a look at the stenogram or you can get another word for it. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but that's the situation, the difficulty of communicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9620	No problem. It's a long Monday. We'll wait for more. This is the longest Monday in mankind's history. Article 104. This, but also the whole congregation's majority, the DS-led coalition, violates the dignity of the National Assembly. You don't have to explain to me when my three minutes go by, if you don't agree. You can put it right away in voting day. Namely, Serbian citizens, here the opposition is again being accused of obstruction, although it regularly works on amendments, which it has submitted, otherwise, and the ruling majority, to a law which at this time does not have a majority to be voted on, I responsibly argue. Until this moment, it is not known that this law will be passed at all. On the other hand, DS MPs are eating chocolate cakes right now, honeyheart, which are shared by an MP walking around the hall. If it's not a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, I don't know what it is. During that time, from summer to now, official data in Serbia (sir, you are not ashamed to share chocolate cakes), wages fell by 50 euros compared to what they were in Serbia in September. Instead of the 200 thousand new jobs promised, you now promise to defend your jobs and ask us to be here with you in solidarity, to work on the Rules of Procedure. You have unilaterally decided to apply the Agreement, frozen, on Stabilisation and Association and the Trade Agreement with the EU. You're reducing 10% of your car customs and thus reducing the budget of the Republic of Serbia. One who has 18,000 euros to buy a car has 20,000 euros to buy it. At the same time, you announce that three times you will increase your car registration fee, so whoever has a stand or a "South" will have to pay 20 to 30,000 dinars. So, to re-attach the EU, which keeps our door closed, cocoa says your president today, you're hitting the poorest again. This is what you announce that you will do as Government – to fill the budget. Because economic growth, at 7.5%, as in 2006, has fallen to below 3%, as it is now. We won't rest until that government falls, and if you don't come to your senses, look what's going on in Athens. You won't last long if you continue this way, imagine yourself well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9621	National MP, there is no violation of article 104, nor is the content of your presentation the reasoning of a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. National MP Gordana Paunovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, if you are watching us, and we hope you are watching and seeing the chaos that is happening in the National Assembly, the obstruction of the ruling coalition. The SRS only works by the Rules of Procedure and will always work only by the Rules of Procedure. I'm reporting under Article 226 and requesting notice from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. The day is adequate, and the situation in Kosovo and Metohija from today will be even more difficult, I hope it will not happen again, and ethnic cleansing of Serbs is done in the most brutal way. My question concerns the Ministry of Kosovo, i.e. the Minister for Kosovo – what will Mr Bogdanovic do about the situation that took place in the village of Kriljevo, Kosovo Mitrovica, in connection with the mysterious death of the Bogdanovic married couple? Married couple Bogdanović, Stanica – 74 years old, and Stanko – 77 years from the village of Kriljevo in the vicinity of Kosovo Kamenica, were found dead in their own house on 5 December 2008. The spouses who were the only Serbs in the village were surrounded by 300 Albanian houses. They were most likely killed a week ago, according to Serbian representatives. Kosovo Police Service claims it is two natural deaths. Relatives do not believe Kosovo police claims and think Kosovo police want to hide the truth about the crime. Boban Jevtic, president of the Kosovo Kamenica municipality, claims that he learned from eyewitnesses that traces of blood were found in the house and that it was the heartless murder of two old Serbs, committed by Albanians. A similar opinion is made by Dragan Nikolic, head of the Kosovo-Pomorava County, who said that the couple Bogdanovic was killed and that neither Kosovo police nor international prosecutor allowed relatives nor representatives of Serbs to enter the house. Bodies were transferred to Pristina to perform an autopsy. Bogdanovic's corpses were brought to Korminjane, a village near Kosovo's Kamenica, in plastic bags and without pathological findings. The relatives don't want to take over the bodies without a pathological report and without an explanation of UNMIK. In the village of Kriljev were the executive units of Eulex. Is it a coincidence, or on purpose, that at the time of the murder, the Eulex units were also there, according to the logs, which could mark the beginning of this mission?- I'm sorry. Once again, I ask the question – is it possible for Raca to repeat itself or continue, in the strictest possible way, ethnically cleaning of Serbs?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9623	The word has a folk letter from Lidija Dimitrijevic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that on the night agenda, the third shift of the National Assembly's work is debated in detail on one of the draft laws of the set of judicial laws, on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and in view of the role of the People's Parliament, I need to be informed of the issues related to the work of the Council on the fight against trafficking in human beings. I want to know what measures this advice takes, because it is extremely worrying data that speaks of the number of victims of human trafficking and human trafficking. The data suggests that between 2004 and 2005, illegal channels, people were transferred, with a total of 66 criminal charges, 52 for human trafficking and 14 for illegal crossover of the state border. During 2006, 37 criminal charges were filed against 84 people for the crime of human trafficking. Among the identified victims, there are underage children. According to the International Organisation for Migration, around 12% of the total number of human trafficking victims are children. I need a notice – are the trials completed for these crimes, especially the processes in which the victims are minors? I am asking for this notice from the minister of justice, given that she is here at the moment, but also from other ministers, members of the Council for Combating Human Trade, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Health, Minister of Youth and Sports and Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9625	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and has a word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, you have injured an art. 31st and 27th. The Rules of Procedure and you, as well as the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who did not inform me, and she was under obligation, that you will be chairing at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, and you said it was still Monday. This is, as colleague Shormaz said, the longest Monday. Secondly, on the basis of Article 85, which you have violated in all attitudes, which is repeatedly absorbed here, you continue to usurp that chair, although this is practically informal work and citizens need to know that. So all this is happening right now is, in fact, an informal assembly session... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9627	People's MPs, I warn you that you cannot call me an informal session during the regular session and call me a usurper at the seat of the chairman, or vice president of the National Assembly, because it is a violation of Article 104. I warn you not to use such expressions and such speeches as those in the National Assembly. This session is not informal, we are no informal group, and you cannot demean the National Assembly, nor express such attitudes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9628	Mrs. Komic, by the way, I wanted to inform the MPs, that's what's not heard in the broadcast because you're shutting down the microphone, that I was forced to, in the moment before I came here, sit in the seat in the first bench, because, and that's not even the MPs, and neither are the viewers of the assembly transfer, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure by making it impossible for me to follow the assembly sitting on your right hand as vice president, because you're also yelling at the Secretary of the National Assembly and you're saying what's not polite to say about the MPs, and that's that we can't fool you, as children, that you're going to fight with us. I can do three, four... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9629	People's MPs, you can't tell the lies about the speaker of the National Assembly. I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9630	Thank you very much. I am already in agreement with what you have done by breaking the Rules of Procedure, which Serbian citizens also see, have signed the decision of the Administrative Committee, chaired by the Vice-President, because it is only possible, Mr Konstantinovic, because we do not have the chairman of the Administrative Committee, the legitimate... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9631	People's Messengers, you have been warned, and a warning has been given. You now state that the National Assembly has no chairman of the Administrative Board. For the last time, I warn you not to force me and leave me room for normal session management, because I don't think expressing the measure of caution is the way good co-operation can take place. Please compare your speech to the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9632	Mrs. Comic, I'm solidarity with you, as vice president of the Assembly, I see you're tired. If I may, I think it would be interesting for you, to read to you the message that has just come to me for you, and have asked me to pass it on to you, if you please... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9633	People's MPs, I give you a second warning, and I ask you to bring in your explanation of the violation of any member of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9634	I ask that the Assembly declare in the voting day that you have violated the article. 27, 31, 85, 104, 103 and 101. The Rules of Procedure, and I ask that it be entered in the record. I'm signing up for the Rules of Procedure again, for later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9635	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. All MPs who want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure are on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9636	Mrs. Komic, again Article 27, I think you know him by heart and I don't need to quote him, so I don't want to make it impossible for you to enter the EU quickly, and you're going to make sure that taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure has a spirit, not the Holy Spirit, but the aim of that provision. I must warn you that in the use of some argument, or some explanation, why today is Tuesday and not Wednesday, you violated some logical laws. You said that by any chance a silent agreement was reached between the president of the parliamentary groups, we could apply the Rules of Procedure. But you made a big mistake. I fully support your tenacity and this style of applying the Rules of Procedure, there is no problem at all, we are used to it, but I draw your attention that, in the way you apply the Rules of Procedure, you show that you do not respect the rules. You need to know, if you've been working longer than eight hours, that that extension is also time-limited. I have to distract you, Mrs. Malovic is a pregnant woman. Pregnant women are forbidden to work at night, especially in the third shift, and we are eight meters underground. I'm just distracting you to consider, when you're determining the spirit of some norm, that you're also taking care of it. I must inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this kind of performance directed by the DS, or Miki Rakic, Boris Tadic and this Vukadinovic, is a society of manual workers, ideologists are elsewhere. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if there is this transmission, something doesn't sound to me like it exists, they need to know that this is an elaborate operation and it's an integral part of something we agreed on about Eulex. The Eulex story is now gaining weight. The Republic of Serbia should be humiliated. Today, EULEX at KIM, directed by DS, would be no surprise – tomorrow and in your apartment. This is an example of how it degrades, degrades, and destroys the state. I would ask you to find in the voting day that you have committed an injury, but I would recommend that in the voting day it is determined that the way represented by Mrs Nada Kolundji here represents a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9637	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It has been repeatedly explained that the course of the session is based on Article 85(5), and in the voting day, the National Assembly will declare your objection. The People's MP Milorad Buha wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come forward for article 27, and I am obliged to meet the chairman of the Assembly with the provisions of the Labour Law, as a system law, which has limited working time and provided for overtime. Every man has certain work, psychophysical and health skills, but at a certain time. Thus, the legislator predicted regular working hours and overtime. What does the Labour Act say? In Article 53. The law on the work of the legislator provided for the following – at the request of the employer, he is employed to work longer than full-time. We know that regular working hours are eight hours, and for longer working hours it says – only in case of more force and sudden increase in the volume of work and in other cases when it is necessary to complete a job that is not planned. Paragraph 2 states - overtime cannot last longer than eight hours a week, nor longer than four hours a day per employee. So more than 12 hours can't work. We're now in the 15th hour. Laws, Art. 274, fines are scheduled. The fines of 600,000 to millions of dinars will be fined by the employer with legal personality if the employee determines overtime against the provisions of this member, that is, Article 53. The labour law. We must warn that in this case it is a drastic violation of the Labour Act. Every man has certain health skills, working abilities that can be exploited at a certain time. We can't work longer than 12 hours. So, take care of this, God forbid anything happens to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9639	National MP, I am in charge of the Secretary of the National Assembly with you, as soon as possible, to hold a discussion to provide you with information on the status of the Members of Parliament, because the objections you have made do not stand, but you have the right to have the right to information on the rights and obligations of the Members of Parliament and the Secretary of the National Assembly are required to provide you with that information. The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9640	First of all, I ask professional services, that is, it was you, Mrs Komic, to do, to come in accordance with Article 121, to draw out cards, or to reset the cards of non-members.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9641	People's MPs, you are calling for a provision of a member that defines the obligation of Members of Parliament to identify themselves on entry, where your card is not in the room until this moment. I'm asking you to return to your seat and you'll be in touch again. You don't have a word. I ask the National Assembly's service to enter the O.R. and all the cards that, possibly, stand in identification units to remove and leave them on the counter outside the O.R. Therefore, the application of members relating to our obligation to identify ourselves with an electronic voting system refers to all MPs. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9642	I know that fatigue does its part with many people, but obviously not with you. You are both tired and tireless, the same. You are permanently violating Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure, which points to respect for other provisions of the Rules of Procedure. A few minutes the MP came out and noticed that there were certain identification cards in the units, that some are not in the units, but that the system shows the presence of MPs, which is irregular. If there's anything that's a technical problem, if anything important is a technical reason, it was a little bit of that reason. You have interrupted the presentation of the People's MP in half, driven from the pay phone, so that later you may do what is, in fact, the People's Messenger asking you to do. Unbelievable. I promised you two weeks ago that I would always respond to your drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to how you conduct the session. That's what you just did. To the side of all this other stuff we talked about. So now I'm only out because of this and trust me that in this way you blatantly violated your powers under Articles 27 and other members of the Rules of Procedure, because having the authority to do something doesn't mean using those powers to the harm of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9643	People's MP, I am very careful how the Rules of Procedure is applied, with the desire and hope that the application of the Rules of Procedure will be beneficial to all of us. The People's MP, Verica Radeta, asked that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure be respected because no MP from rows 2 to 9 respected a member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges us to identify us in the electronic voting system. It's a measure from the Rules of Procedure that I have to apply. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and has a word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, I refer to Article 121 as a member to whom Mrs Verica Radeta also called when she warned you that congregation services should pass the hall and establish a simple fact that your MPs lead you into trouble, that is, to deceive you, by slowly taking out the card, and on the screen is this yellow field as if it were in the hall. Now, when you look on your right side, in the other row, you have a marked yellow there, as if someone is sitting next to the Verse Radete, and I can show you that the Verice Radete card is with me. Instead of following the warning...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9645	National MP, does this mean that your electronic card is not in the registered electronic voting system? If not, please return to your seat and register. If we want to respect the Rules of Procedure, we must respect it all together. From where you're standing, you can see it. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Why are you doing this? Because I want us to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly together. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You will not piss me off, at least be fair to those borders. I am fully in agreement with the need to respect all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If you show me the card of the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radete, thus proving, demonstrating that it is still registered in the electronic system, and you get the word, then you leave me no space but that no one who is not registered is given the word. All the time you've been saying the rules of procedure, all MPs get their word. An MP who's not registered in the O.R. can't get a word in. National MPs who are not registered do not participate in giving quorums. We have never and never participated in keeping the quorum read. Therefore, if Members of Parliament who do not register electronically, on the basis of a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to the obligation to register, when entering, the MP shall not be registered, they shall not be able to receive a word; if they are not present in the determination of the quorum, they shall not be present for giving a word. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Where does it say?) ) I ask you to register electronically, with remarks – where it says so. For in order for the presentation of the MPs to be in the stenogram, the MP must be registered in the electronic system of the National Assembly. We all know that, and we don't need to discuss it. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9646	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't see the point of coming out for this pay phone and making a lie. So it's completely incomprehensible why it's necessary, as if the camera isn't recording, and as if the citizens can't see that what you're saying isn't true. There's as many of us as it's recorded in the O.R. and what's a matter of complete nonsense is what number it is, because there's no working quorum. If there was a working quorum, you could ask if there's a quorum to work with, but there's no quorum to work with. So many MPs, as far as the parliamentary majority is concerned, are registered in the O.R., unlike those of you who are sitting and not registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9647	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9648	Article 104. Basically, I don't like these debates, which is why it offends me who is present, who isn't present, etc., and I mostly avoid it. Come on, truth be told, what's worse? To be present in the O.R. and to work, even if you weren't registered, or not to be present in the O.R., to keep your identification card in place, which we all saw was true?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9649	People's Messenger, the Rules of Procedure do not prescribe what is better and what is worse. The Rules of Procedure prescribes the obligation of all of us to identify ourselves in the electronic voting system by entering the O.R. It obliges us to carry our MP card with us. During today's and yesterday's work, a huge number of MPs who had not been registered in the O.R. received word and were considered, too, a silent agreement. At a time when a National MP, who is not registered in an O.R., utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure of another People's Parliament, who commits the same offence as her, is a border that does not cross the rules of procedure, that is to say the harm of the Rules of Procedure, and that is clear to all of us. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27: "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and doing other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure." I'm quoting Article 60. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "Each one has the right to respect the dignity of his person on the job, safe and healthy working conditions, necessary protection at work, limited working time, daily and Sunday vacation, paid vacation, fair work compensation... '"I appeal to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 60: "The Members of the People are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. It is not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor to make facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons'. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Art. In 225 and 226, I ask the competent ministry – which parliament in Europe and in the world is working in these hours, working on three shifts? Which parliament, and for what reason, holds MPs on the draft law that will enter into force only in 2010? I quote a member of the 19th proposed law because of citizens of Serbia: "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and is applicable from 1 January 2010. "As previous colleagues have said, we are eight meters underground. It's already nine. 12. In 2008. We started work eight. 12, 10 o'clock in the morning. Please, the chairman, apply Article 98. The Rules of Procedure, which states, in paragraph 2 - the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion. Item 3 – The President of the National Assembly shall interrupt the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. How do you think we positively assess your law, that we actively participate in the adoption of anti-corruption law, in these hours, at this time, in these conditions, so an MP comes out and feeds his colleagues, to endure what does nothing, and you expect us to do and explain our amendments? The simple question now arises – who is holding back the adoption of this law and who is obstructing it? In the voting day, please let us all be clear about the injury of all these members I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9651	Ambassador Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 104 has been brutally violated, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because we have now seen that at least twenty cards have been extinguished here. I've shut down two or three of them myself. The card was drawn slowly and the name remained. The card owner is gone. After all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me remind you, Neda Arnerić of Bodrum voted that way. She's taking a bath in Bodrum, and here's the card. Novakovic, as they were called, from Novi Sad, voted so from Thessaloniki. That's how the Labour Act passed, and that's how Governor Kori Udovici's election went. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've come this far to be forced by the terror of the ruling majority to count them every 10 minutes, to see how many have gone and how many cards are left. Mr. Millyvoy, if you have something to say, come out for this pay phone, because you can't hear from here if you're talking or letting out unarticulated screams, and I'll tell you what I mean when I get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9653	National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Are you registered in an O.R., electronic voting system? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I report to the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 225, and above all on Article 226, and I would like to request a notice that is extremely important to the citizens of Serbia. I am taking the opportunity, since it is uninterrupted, for several days, that the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia is present, to ask a question and to request a notice. Please, the matter is very serious and concerns a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have asked that question many times, I repeat, because this is – what is the working time of the courts in Serbia? And even though I asked that question ten days ago, obviously, there are no changes, because the courts work from 7.45 to 13 hours. They only work, it looks like, five hours, or half the time. Given that a large number of citizens have objections to this, and that you have the right, as Minister, because you are overseeing the conduct of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to give a notice, because there are several reasons for that. Madam Chairman, I'm also asking for a notice. Will the chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr Ratkovic, schedule a session of the Legislative Committee, at which the Legislative Committee should give an authentic interpretation of the application of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, the provisions of Article 85(6), in particular, when it comes to the work of the National Assembly after 18 hours? Given that there has been a misunderstanding here, I propose and request that the Legislative Committee schedule a session and give an authentic interpretation of whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured, because the Legislative Committee has the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9655	By referring to Article 27, therefore, pursuant to Article 158, the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law can be submitted by an authorised legislator. If the Legislative Committee assesses that the proposal is justified, it shall make up a proposal for authentic interpretation and shall submit it to the applicant and to the National Assembly. If the Legislative Committee assesses that the proposal is not justified, it shall inform the applicant of the proposal and the National Assembly thereof. The National Assembly shall decide on the proposals of the Legislative Committee referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article. If the National Assembly does not accept the position of the Legislative Committee that authentic interpretation is not justified, it will task the Legislative Committee to formulate a proposal for authentic interpretation. Therefore, it concerns the proposal to adopt authentic interpretations of laws, other regulations and general acts adopted by the National Assembly, as well as the questions of a single legislative methodology. On the basis of Article 158, and on the basis of Article 45, it is up to the chairman of the Legislative Committee to hold a session with you in the discussion and further consultations at which the Rules of Procedure shall be submitted and we shall enter the procedure for interpretation. I apologize for the language mistakes, it's said to be a bearer. I thank the People's MP Verica Radeti, but I think that MP Petar Jojic and I understood about the realization of his request for a working body for which the chairman is in charge. National MP Dragan Todorovic first asked for a word to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, so MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 27, where it is said that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic, MP Verica Radeta and I have tried to convince you that this system is not perfect. Unfortunately, the technical system is not responding and allows certain errors. We warned you that it was possible for you not to be there and that there was a cube on the screen that stood there as if someone were there, as possible and vice versa. Here, at the cost of turning off my microphone again, I would ask Mr. Aligrudic to move. You see, there's my card in my MP's unit, which is put in there, and there's that Faith Radete, but on the screen, you don't see that this field is marked as if I'm in an O.R. Unfortunately, Mrs. Comic, you have allowed, or you have come into a situation where your MPs will make you humiliate this assembly and yourself, in a way, because you agree to these things that are happening. It's not that bad, it's not that bad, it's not that bad, it's just that as MPs of the opposition, we're looking to point out some of the things that are going on; no one's going to fall for it. But what you're doing, it's about your character, that you don't stand over anything, you're able to do anything to show that you're doing the right thing. I remember, it wasn't that long ago, when there was a vote from Bodrum. You remember yourself, Mrs. Comic, as some of your MPs, not only here in the hall, but also on TV, explained how, in fact, Neda Arneric was in the Serbian Parliament, as she voted from the second or third order, so some of your current coalition partners showed that you then cheated on Serbian citizens, how you forged the vote, because Neda Arneric was not in Serbia, but in Bodrum, so you forged the plane tickets, and that's what she's saying, Mrs. Komic, about the party you belong to. I understand your loyalty, but don't put yourself in such a position as to prevent the violation of the Rules of Procedure from manifesting itself to the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and that whoever points to it is punished, and that those who abuse it, the malts, pass away as people who have managed to outwit you and us. Thank you so much for not taking my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9657	Messengers of the people, in this congregation are all my messengers; I have none of yours and our messengers. I'm asking the National Assembly to come straight to the O.R. and check the signalling in the electronic voting units elsewhere, because it's obvious that the system isn't perfect. The People's MP is assessing me to blame someone. I do not blame anyone, and I repeat, all MPs here are mine, trying, together with you, to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in all its provisions. I hope that your evaluations of character have been sent to the crowd, not to me personally, because for these four terms I carry my parliamentary card with me, I put it and keep it, believing that it is the obligation of every MP. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9658	So, Article 27 states what the President of the National Assembly does, so that I don't read all of this to you, I'll read one of the last of these positions -- he does other jobs provided for by law and the Rules of Procedure, which implies he has to do according to the law. That means he has to respect other laws. The National Assembly is represented by the president of the National Assembly, and the work of professional services is run by the General Secretary of the National Assembly. I think our fellow MP, Mr. Buha, was a bit of a missed subject when he spoke about the Labour Act, because that labour law, it's a big discussion, but I'm more inclined not to refer directly to the MPs, when it comes to this time, too much, in which we work. It's a bigger problem with ministers, it's already closer to logic, but you know how, there wouldn't be this session of the National Assembly tonight, in the sky, contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, not to help us in our work of people who are employed in the National Assembly. These people are hired by the General Secretary of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Labour Act. Do you think we have any other personnel and other people who will be here tomorrow at ten o'clock to help continue, I suppose, these sessions? I don't know how you're gonna start tomorrow at ten, will you have an 84-present quorum, if this session, according to your interpretation, is endlessly going to last, until the end, as it is said here, of the point on the agenda? That's a special question, we'll talk about that later, about those finesse. But here's the question, and now I'm asking it, within the meaning of Article 226, that the president of the National Assembly, first of all, answers me, and you as chairman. At this point, I realized that we actually entered a rut set by the president of the National Assembly, although I think you're the one who owns this circus to end. I think you have the right to say at this point – it's okay, these arguments are made, they stand and at this point there are no conditions for further work, but we will continue today, at ten o'clock, as the Rules of Procedure provides. We have stenographers, we have people who do technique here, who work here. These people who record everything that we're talking about, work in certain cycles, change because it's not possible to work for a long time in a concentrated way; there are rules on how it seems, not to get into it. Do you expect us to keep these people here until six o'clock in the morning, so that you can present your whim, as the ruling majority, and in violation of the regulations of the Rules of Procedure? I don't think that's possible. I ask you most beautifully, not on behalf of the MPs, we were elected by the citizens on our election lists to earn everything, so, if necessary, and sitting for four days without sleep. There are people who are not obliged to suffer, not only are they not mandatory, but you, I don't mean yourself, Mrs. Comic, but I am speaking to the President of the National Assembly and the Secretary General, whom this assembly has chosen, are obliged to respect what I'm talking about. I'm really asking you to stop this charade right now, if for nothing else, on behalf of these people, and to normally continue our work tomorrow, at 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9659	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). The injuries you have inflicted have not been done, and the explanations have already been given.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9660	I have two questions and one statement. The first question is to determine what day it is. It's not nice for the assembly majority to say it's still Monday and I'm staying in the minority, claiming it's Tuesday. I'd like to ask the chairman to tell us what today is. So, I expect the answer from you, Mrs. Comic, since you claimed at 12.15 that it was still Monday. It is very important to me that you answer that question, so that I may appeal to a certain member of the Rules of Procedure. It's not nice to defend yourself with silence, it's not your thing. Well, since we have absorbed this topic, the majority of the congregation has remained in the minority, today is Tuesday, to inform you and to inform you. Another question I have for you – will you allow us a lunch break between two and three hours? You're defending yourself with silence again, Mrs. Comic. The third finding, did you notice that, a half hour ago, a certain MP of the ruling majority brought in here a bag of peanuts, seeds, popcorn, leprosy, and here he shared them? Now I want to call myself, therefore, that is Article 106, paragraph 7 - the reminder is given to the MP, and we already know these familiar items, and you are very old, but, in paragraph 7 – if other proceedings violate the order of the sitting or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Is it okay to bring a bag of food in here? Look, there's a dilemma here, I don't know if that MP shared it with the MPs, or if he was selling it, so I don't know if he was reselling it. If he was selling, we have to determine at what price he did it. I didn't notice he was issuing fiscal accounts. It is not right, then, that while someone is working here, MPs go out and argue that we are working on amendments, even the Rules of Procedure, because we are forced, someone is engaged in trade and earning money on the torture of the MPs of the people. It's really not right. So on the first question you stayed silent, the second you remained silent, and there's nothing to answer. I'm not hiding my satisfaction that I managed to leave you to him, it's a great success. I think the first one went with my hand, so it's a great piece of information. We'll make sure you stay silent, but that silence of yours, in fact, says that you are especially inclined to harass the MPs of the people. It's 1:15 now, you don't give lunch break in two hours, you're gonna make us work, I don't know how much. That absolutely doesn't make sense. Here, fellow MPs, now I am serious, have also pointed to potential health problems that MPs may have. It's not normal to work 16 hours in continuity. We have tomorrow. I also suggest to the congregation majority and to you, give one brief break until 10 a.m. and then continue normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9661	People's MP, you haven't spoken to which member, essentially, your statement of injury applies. Article 106 is a member who defines the conditions under which the notice is made and he is the discretionary right of the chairman. Your attempts to establish dialogue would represent a case of controversy, which is forbidden by the chairman. I refer you to the members of the Rules of Procedure who define who is allowed to interrupt the speaker, the MP of the National Assembly. So the chairman may interrupt you, but the dialogue between the speaker and the chairman cannot be conducted in any case, nor is it foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on last year's 100th position.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 233, 234, 235 and 236. For the people's MPs to know, they say, some new members, so the citizens know, I'll read the members. Article 233 says – the provisions of this Rules of Procedure shall apply in the work of the National Assembly in the case of war, direct war danger or emergency, unless otherwise specified by these Rules of Procedure and other general acts of the National Assembly. Article 234 – President of the National Assembly, in the case of war, direct war danger or emergency... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: This really doesn't make sense. [[elevator in the O.R.]] I mean, what's this about? (Dragan Todorovic, from the place:What are these curses and insults? This doesn't make sense. ) [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9663	Member of the Parliament, do you maintain that there are injuries to the members of the Rules of Procedure relating to the work of the National Assembly during the wartime, the immediate threat of war and the state of emergency?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9664	Yeah, I'm staying on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9665	Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9666	I want to tell you... (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Is it possible for MPs to swear and insult, do you want to... )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9667	People's MP, do you remain in a position to inflict injuries to a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to the work of the National Assembly during the wartime, the immediate threat of war and the state of emergency? Will you continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9668	Yeah, but don't take this time into consideration.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9669	Of course not. Since you're not using time, I have to ask you, are you staying with the injury? Here you go. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: You really want to lead to the incident. You go ahead. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9670	I'm staying on it and I'll try to convince you. [[elevator in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9671	People's MP, do you remain in the matter of committing injuries, do you wish to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9672	I want to, but I want you to do a little order here, because I can't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure while two MPs clash and insult. Out of the O.R.: Just one. [[elevator in the O.R.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9673	I ask the MPs to allow Ljubomiru Kragovic to talk about the violation of members of the Rules of Procedure relating to the work of the National Assembly during the wartime situation, direct war dangers and emergency. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic called on members of this chapter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and apparently is unable to speak, so I am forced to ask several times whether he remains in breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) I ask all other MPs to take their seats and, while respecting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, listen with due attention to MP Ljubomir Kragovic. I'm warning you all that any passing will be punished by warning. I ask the MPs to listen to their colleague, Ljubomir Kragovic. Here you go, fellow MP, sorry to interrupt, but don't speak, and that's why I have to ask you if you're staying here to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9674	Of course I do, that's why I called, because our country is in direct war danger. I want to explain it to you, but your colleagues in this yellow company are making so much noise that they won't let me tell you what I want. Let me inform you that this "diplomatic victory" is the alleged reconfiguration of UNMIK and the arrival of the Eulex fraud mission. The Serbian people in the state of Serbia have been deceived, and the Serb people in KIM will suffer. The Eulex mission has arrived. As of today, there are no more uniform UNMIK police officers. They were ordered to take off their uniforms and to walk in Serbia, i.e. KIM, civilian only. What does that mean? This means that the Serbian people do not have adequate security at KIM. To go to Mitrovica now, to Gracanica, to Strpce, you will find a tajac; there is no walking, no citizens, no cafes, no restaurants. Everyone looks forward to today. The order that came from one of the powers of the international community, to break up and remove the uniforms of all UNMIK police members, has created a major chill with the Serb people at KIM. A vacuum was created, a space in which Ship's Separatists and terrorists can act freely. There is no one to protect the Serb people. That's why I quoted a 233 member who speaks of the immediate danger of war. If I'm wrong, I guess this state has the Ministry of Police, has the Ministry of Defence, has at least one man, a member of its own, at the KIM who wants to confirm this information, so I'm asking the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to respond, because we're told that it's going to be the reconfiguration of UNMIK, not that UNMIK will dissipate, that there won't be UNMIK. You don't have any police officers in uniform today. Do you know what that means for the Serb people at KIM? What are you laughing at, Ivan, I have to tell you that? If your wife and your children were down there, you wouldn't laugh, you'd be amazed and scrawny. [[elevator in the O.R.]] Get serious, listen, there are 100,000 Serbs down there. It's not a joke. How can you not be ashamed? I therefore ask that all the authorities, all the institutions of the Serbian state, hold a meeting immediately and call on representatives, both Mr Zaneri and Mr Kermabon, and to withdraw this shameful decision, to allow UNMIK police members to perform their duties in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9675	The word has a folk MP, Marina Ragush, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9676	Mrs. Comic, thank you. I'm reporting from Article 104. Rules of Procedure, which regulates the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would really like the opposition MP, or the DSS, to come out for this pay phone and say what Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic said and to figure out what this torture and this inhuman work was really about. Here, I give up my right, my colleague, but the public in Serbia needs to know how the ruling majority behaves. At the same time, I am leaving this pay phone and I am asking all those who have applied after me to register again, and colleagues from the DSS – to come out here and tell the people in Serbia that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic is acting and that we should know that the second part of us is approaching, and that soon all of us will probably be punished by death, shooting, just because we reveal the fundamental will of the ruling majority in Serbia. Thank you for that amount of courage in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9677	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9678	Madam Chairman, since you didn't understand last time what I was going to say, I'm going to slowly, laden, explain to you what this is about. The head of the MEP's Group for European Serbia has called on a member of 103 to talk about what is on the agenda. I'm up for it, and I don't mind. At one point, the amendment was discussed by DSS Parliamentary Group head Milos Aligrudic, five or six minutes. After that, two DSS MPs, who had not received a word under the same amendment, appeared because the chairman had moved to the second amendment, not seeing who had responded. The same situation was repeated when an SRS representative spoke about the amendment and when Mr Petar Jojic asked for a word. So you're calling on Article 103 and that same member you're breaking, not letting us talk on the agenda. So that was the reason for my address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9679	Thank you, People's Messenger. I'm sorry, I really didn't understand for the first time. Each parliamentary group has 15 minutes to use to discuss the amendment in particular. If it happened that, while I chaired, there was an oversight of the raised hand when it had already moved to the next amendment, I can only apologize and suggest that you plead on that in the day of the vote. The course of the session is such that we cannot return to the debate on the previous amendment. I repeat that for a MP who, with the chairman's oversight, has lost as many of his minutes as he has, or later reported, there is no way to return to the previous amendment. National MP Vladan Jeremic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, as the debate moves away, I am increasingly convinced that what we were talking about is about advertising Article 85. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, won power. One thing's obvious. So, if there were any arrangements, it would probably have been kept quiet outside the Rules of Procedure. But since there was no agreement, then we had to be here, as MPs in the Assembly, so that we clearly adhere to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing about this member is Article 19. The draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, because the justification that something is extremely justified, which extends the working time of the Assembly, absolutely does not stand, since, as we have heard, this law would not start to apply until 1 January 2010, and from that date we are still far away, although there is obvious progress in the work, at least when it comes to the duration of the sittings themselves. The real reason, I think, is that the ruling majority, led by MEPs for Europe's Serbia, finally realized the destruction of the proposed legislative solution. We heard on several occasions – 19 members of the proposed law, 124 proposed amendments, and many illogicalities, many absurd things during this debate in the Assembly. The government also rejected proposals coming from the congregation’s majority. We'll see how this ends. I am sure that the only intention was to, by accepting the fact that it is indeed an extremely bad solution, the ruling majority, in their own own own own own own way, and one of those is what is giving us tonight, not just for us, but for the citizens of Serbia, is to make it impossible for us to honestly work on the intended points of the agenda. By the time I got back, I wanted to point out that about two months ago I pointed out some of the illogicalities that are happening in SO Mladenac. When, for example, the number of those who vote in favour and against certain decisions is summed up, that number is greater than the total number of committees, and some new details, in the same manner, were held at the final session of SO. Since my time is up in this reporting, I'll talk about it later, so you're already recording me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9681	The MP, it is clear, during the highlight of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that we are being told to work on the basis of Article 85(5), because there was no agreement by the president of the parliamentary groups, and a direct application of Article 85(5) is not a novelty that was discovered in the meantime. The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9682	Mrs. Komic, that's Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm taking a big risk, because I don't know how you're going to react to these words that I'm going to say. But this is a scandalous way of holding a session of the National Assembly, because most in the National Assembly want to seduce a totalitarian system in Serbia and then not choose the funds. You really don't choose the means. This debate on judicial laws was going very well, more or less, but I announced to you Monday morning that, as far as KIM's territory is concerned, Eulex is following, with all these consequences discussed by Mr Kragovic. It's quite obvious, I know very well, since I'm DS's bankruptcy manager, that a warrant has come to create a kind of circus in the National Assembly. You will see this morning what newspapers will be like, what an avalanche charges will be on the burden of the National Assembly, and the culprit for all this is across the street, it is Boris Tadic. They had a very bad session of the board on Sunday. Only you laugh, Serbia gets hurt when you laugh and you win. This is a challenging situation to draw attention from the very black things that happen to the Serbian people – EULEX at KIM, unprotected Serbs, Vukic in Republika Srpska, accompanied by Croatian police, there something, Kobajagi, protects, and this is designed by Miki Rakic, Boris Tadic and that Vukadinovic, because these security services work for foreigners. You made us stay here and advertise the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, in order to prove by our perseverance what you were doing. Just to remind you, it is a reflection of the primitive vote from Bodrum, a reflection of the prosacular vote from Thessaloniki, a reflection of the non-civilisation behaviour – the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic, the action "Sabbe", the sale of our banks, "Sartida" for 20 and some million and destruction. That's why we're here to stop. We can't prevent that much, but the citizens can see what it's really about. I told you a few days ago -- you take care, in that opportunism towards the SRS, you go into treason, and today you prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9683	There's no damage to article 27. (Marina Ragush, from the post: We give up the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, only to see Mr Zeljko Tomic say that he has injured our dignity as an DS MP. There was almost a fight between the two MPs. We give up in his favor. ) People's MPs inform me that they do not want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that they are ready for MP Zeljko Tomic to get the word, regardless of what is not reported and wants to speak. People's MP, you're not reported to have your word now. Please listen with a little more patience, our joint work and common interest that, during this session, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be applied in all its parts. So, MP Zeljko Tomic is now in no position to get his word, and he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The proposal is for him to get his word now, and for the MPs who called to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure to speak after him. National MP Zeljko Tomic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9684	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, of course, the Dignity of the Assembly, Article 104. But, Mrs. Komic, this concerns you most, indirectly, and directly, someone else I'm going to mention a little later. When Mr. Zoran Nikolic from this pay phone asked you something, you refused at that time to answer him. It often happens when MPs from your post get something, or ask you to set up a dialogue with them, although it represents, realistically, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's okay, and we understand that. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure and that's a fact. It is interesting, however, that you hear what the MPs are getting you, especially the opposition, and, while you are reacting to it, you have not heard the most vulgar curses spoken by Mr Srdjan Milivojevic to the MPs, mainly the DSS, or opposition MPs. It heard more than half the hall, and it reacted, but it didn't hear the chairman and it couldn't react. Everyone here knows that. If this parliament is a black hole, then you, Mr. Milivojevic, are a black hole in the black hole. What you've done tonight is unforgivable, beneath all moral standards, any kind of training. There's nothing there that can justify you. If we're going to swear and insult, will we move on to the next step? Shall we fight? What are we going to do? Will we, like in Thailand, fight? You don't stand a chance here. You don't stand a chance in insults either, but we won't insult and try to keep the minimum of dignity. You're the one who most insults the dignity of this assembly, with his inappropriate throws and, tonight, finally, with the most vulgar curses. What do you think we're gonna take? I'm not going to say what, doesn't allow me, or, if I've been raised, that little education doesn't allow me to quote what he said, but we won't tolerate it, in any way. That is why I appeal to the chairman, when he listens and conducts dialogue with the MPs, he listens to you when you blaspheme the messengers without eyes. What do you think, you've been cursing and it's going to end? You're a black hole in a black hole. This isn't a black hole, but you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9685	People's MP, I've been conducting a dialogue with Parliamentarian Marina Ragush, and that's why you've been given the word. I am talking to MPs who are talking to me with a question or trying to find the solution in this communication that is necessary for all of us. Given what you've stated, Hope Kolundji's People's Parliament wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9686	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully understand that the atmosphere in this assembly has entered that stage where we all need to take responsibility and say that we do not want to agree to such a thing, that we want to build here a relationship that will be worthy of this institution. I apologize if any MP from my MP group has offended anyone. We don't want to do that, and I'm allowing that communication to turn into something that maybe isn't at the level that we'd all want to build here. I suggest we stop this work and continue tomorrow, because obviously, there is no willingness to continue to work on the amendments, which was our goal when we extended this work and it was our goal to finish the job we're here for. But if it becomes pointless, then I think we need to find a way out of it, by interrupting and by continuing tomorrow, I sincerely believe, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with what is the agenda and what is the obligation of this assembly to do, respecting the deadlines and obligations it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9687	Based on the presentation of MP Zeljko Tomic and the explanation of Hope Kolundzhija, I give notice to MP Srdjan Milivojevic and demand that he apologize for violating Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here you go, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9688	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have only responded with the same dictionary that was sent to me on the right. If it offends anyone, I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9689	National MP, I warn you of the respect of members of 104 and members who regulate the conduct of MPs of the National Assembly, it obliges all of us. My wish is to make an apology, personally, after the President of the Parliament Group, and that we all understand together that it is possible in the National Assembly, that we should give each other harsh words and then apologize afterwards. I'm glad Mrs. Secretary's back to work. There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is perfectly understandable that after a working day like this, there may be some problems. I'm sure it wasn't intentional. We've known each other for a long time, with jokes and a little sharper dictionary talk to each other. Maybe someone, at one point, what would you say, some brakes cancel out and some problems arise. That's the problem that got rid of. I'm sure none of us want that. The problem was solved by Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, apologizing. Now, explain to me, Mrs. Komic, please, on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure did you invite Srdjan Milivojevic to apologize personally? It is his personal matter, whether he will or will not. Aman, Mrs. Comic, how are you acting? What does that look like? Well, this is really, really amazing. Well, you will now, as far as you can think of, come on, apologize to this, go buy him a cup of coffee, bring him a barrel. What does this look like? This is really, really amazing. It is funny, but it is truly amazing what you bring to this assembly and MPs. It really doesn't make sense. It's possible you're doing whatever you want at the Parliament Club, but you're humiliating your MPs here. Take care of how you behave. Don't put yourself in that situation. Please tell me what member you've been following.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-08-0.u9691	According to Article 27 — the care of the order of the National Assembly. National MP Marina Ragus asked that MP Zeljko Tomic get his word on the scandalous event that took place during the National Assembly session. Taking care of the order, according to Article 27, and by looking at the stenogram of the presentation of MP Željko Tomic, there was also a reaction from Hope Kolundzija. Taking care of the order, I also have the right to invite MP Srdjan Milivojevic to make an apology, and that's what happened. The warning given to him was made because, based on the presentation of MP Zeljko Tomic and the president of the Parliamentary Group, it was obvious that there was an incident that, pursuant to Article 106, implies a statement of notice to the MP. If I had heard or seen it, I would have done it without having to exchange harsh words among the MPs. People's MP Jadranko Vukovic, do you stay here to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? If we finish work, you give up, if we keep working, you stay. Since it is obvious that we do not want to work on the agenda and that we want to talk only about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, then for today we end work and continue tomorrow, at 10 o'clock, or today, at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
