ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u363	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law on ministries and I would like to say that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97, paragraph 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which provision the Republic of Serbia regulates the organisation, jurisdiction and work of state authorities. The legislator of the law is legitimately legitimated by the provisions of Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Next, Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the state administration is independent, bound by the Constitution and law and that it corresponds to the government of the Republic of Serbia for its work. The affairs of the state administration shall be carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration laid down by law. The affairs of the state administration and the number of ministries are determined by law, and the internal arrangements of the ministry and other state administration bodies and the organisation are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the follow-up of the issued, constitutional and formal legal basis, we have before us a proposal for a law on ministries, a sectoral law which educates ministries and special organisations, determines their work, or define the affairs of the state administration for each of the resolutions, as well as the professional affairs carried out by special organisations. Chapter V of the bill contains provisions that the ministries continue to work in accordance with the section set out in this draft law, and then the ministries that continue to work in accordance with the new section, but under a different name. Article 45. The bill stipulates that they are working according to the position and scope of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of National Investment Plan, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and the Directorate for Gender Equality. In Article 46, it is prescribed which ministries and special organisations cease to work, and in the course of the debate, we will analyse this in more detail. Articles 47 - 50 are of legal and technical character and relate to the acquisition of rights, obligations, objects, equipment, archives of employees and appointed persons from, as I say, abolished ministries, administrations and agencies. The Proposer considers that there is a basis prescribed in Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, namely that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In the material you've been given, there's only some reason and basis for applying this standard. I would also like to say that the reasons for the entry into force of the day of publication are also in the following: start the processes of European integration, implementation of international contracts, the realisation of strategic contracts with the Fiat, the issue of a concession agreement with the Alpina Pora for the Horgos-Požega road, the constitution of the authorities of local self-government, the constitution of the AP Vojvodina. Furthermore, the need for further diplomatic offensive concerning Kosovo and Metohija, the position of Serbs in our southern province, etc., not to list, and especially to highlight the imperative of so-called. The white Schengen lists, i.e. putting Serbian citizens in a visa-free regime, highlighting the status of candidates for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, imply an important need for a spotless establishment of a state administration which, as we know, is part of an execution, i.e. part of the executive authority. I stress this particularly in the context of the fact that the current government of the Republic of Serbia has no longer been constitutional, nor legal, nor technical capacity, and thus the ministries as authorities of the state administration. For these reasons, this bill is adopted by emergency procedure, according to the applicant's point of view. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law educates, as you have seen, 24 ministries instead of the current 22 ministries that have envisioned the current law. There is no need to list, or read the text of Article 2. The law on ministries, but I will apostrophe that the new ministries are: the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the Ministry of National Investment Plan, and certain ministries under a different name, under other circumstances and competences, continue to work, while some have been abolished. As far as the foreign ministry is concerned, the newspaper in this bill is that informing citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad, the politics of the Republic of Serbia, is now in the section of the Ministry of Diaspora and we consider this solution more comprehensive, given the large number of our emigrants in the countries of Western Europe and in the overseas countries. The Ministry of Defence has been regulated by Article 4, i.e. a description, a part-round of the affairs carried out by this ministry is in this article. I would like to say that the proposal for a law has put the provisions on the work of this ministry in line with the Constitution, the Law on Defence, the Law on the Army, the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia, and, which is one of the qualities, precisely defines the system of civil protection, that is, the jurisdiction of this ministry in this important sector of the Ministry of Defence. As regards the authorities of the administration within the Ministry of Defence, solutions from the existing law have been retained, so that they will continue to insist on the defence inspectorate, as the authority of the Ministry of Defence, which will carry out inspection tasks, as well as the Military Security Service and the Military Intelligence Service, as the authorities of the Ministry of Defence, and which, as defined by the laws of origin, will carry out security tasks relevant for the defence laid down by these laws and other regulations. I also want to say for the paper, that the Mine Action Centre, we'll see it in further provisions of this law, remains under the control of the Department of Defense. The solutions proposed in Article 5 refer to the Ministry of the Interior, followed by the legislative continuity that we had both in previous and earlier laws. I will only absorb some of the key powers and parts of this ministry. These are the protection of life, personal and property security of citizens, the prevention and detection of criminal offences, the detection and capture of perpetrators of criminal acts, the maintenance of public order and peace, the security of assemblies, security of persons, facilities, the security of the state border, JMBG, citizenship, residence, residence of citizens, ID cards, travel documents and particularly forms, the realisation and affirmation of forms of international co-operation in the field of internal affairs, including readmission, illegal migration, asylum, etc. The responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance are regulated by Article 6. And this, as well as the previous ministry that I explained, kept that arm of authority that it had under the existing Ministry Act. These are the tasks of the state administration relating to the budget, tax policy, taxis, other public revenues, public procurement, the foreign exchange system and credit relations, the system of financial relations with abroad, the customs system, the basics of the social security contribution system, the credit-money and banking system, the property and persons insurance system, the use of grants from European funds and other forms of assistance from abroad, as well as the payment and payment system, securities and the capital market, accounting and audit systems. In the field of competence, i.e. in the work of this ministry, as the authorities of the state administration, it is also the protection of the property of the Republic of Serbia abroad, the expropriation of property-law and other real-law relations, as well as the responsibilities in preventing money laundering, gambling, budgetary control and audit, audit of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. Within the framework of this ministry, the Customs Administration insists, as an authority of the administration that performs the tasks of the state administration and professional affairs within this ministry. As for the ministry of justice, as one of the most important resolutions, especially for Serbia as a country in transition and a country in which it is necessary to urgently harmonise Serbia's regulations with EU rules, the ministry has maintained its current work of competence. I will present only some newspaper that provides for this bill, which is – judicial exam, skill, as well as the implementation of the programme of protection of participants in criminal proceedings. The Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry is governed by Article 8. I would like to point out that one of the qualities of this law is the rationalization of this ministry. As part of this ministry, only the Republic Water Directorate remains, as the authority of the administration which performs certain professional tasks for these ministries. We have continued to retain the responsibility of this ministry, extremely important, given the importance of agriculture as our strategic economic activity. These are the strategy and policy for the development of agriculture, the food and industrial system for the protection of natural resources, the establishment of the balance sheet of agricultural and food products, the system of commodity reserves. What's particularly important is rural development. I would like to remind you that certain planning and action documents have also been adopted on the strategy not only of agricultural but also of rural development, and the implementation of this strategy will be carried out by state authorities, in the first place by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Decisions relating to animal health and welfare improvements, prevention and eradication of infectious diseases, diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans, veterinary and sanitary controls, etc. According to the difolt, of course, there is also the protection of plants against infectious diseases and other competences that this ministry has had so far. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has been regulated by Article 9. The draft laws and operations of the state administration to be carried out by this ministry relate to the economy and economic development, the position of companies and other forms of business, business and financial restructuring of companies, privatisation, bankruptcy, promoting economic development, proposing economic policy measures for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be of paramount importance in the coming period. Also, state administration operations related to regional development: directing activities that encourage regional development, building business and municipal infrastructure, proposing development projects from regional development and projects of interest to the Republic of Serbia, as well as evaluation of development projects. What is important is the work of this ministry to encourage inter-municipal, inter-regional, cross-border and international co-operation in the areas and the work of this ministry. The improvement of economic relations with abroad is of paramount importance and remains in the work of this ministry, as well as the harmonisation of external trade rules with the EU and the World Trade Organisation, as well as other multilateral institutions and organisations. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development will also perform the tasks of state administration relating to tourism development strategy and policy, as one of the branches of the economy that has a perspective in the Republic of Serbia, so a number of sectoral and systemic laws, as well as other planning documents, need to be passed. In the field of this ministry, employment will also remain in the country and abroad, sending unemployed citizens to work abroad, employment of persons with disabilities and other persons who are harder to hire, extra employees, the exercise of rights based on unemployment insurance, etc. The special authority of the administration within this ministry is the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals. Article 10. The bill regulates the affairs of the state administration carried out by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and that is where we kept the solutions from the existing law. The Ministry of Infrastructure is also one of the most important ministries, important portfolios, to carry out the tasks of state administration in the area of project realisation and the construction of transport infrastructures, internal and international transport, the organisation and security of the technical and technological system of traffic, as well as bonding and legal and property relations and inspection tasks, except air traffic control. What's new is the type-approval of vehicles, equipment and parts of vehicles, which is very important to us because of standardisation in this area of transport. The activities of spatial planning, urbanism, construction land and geodesy, which were in the area of the Ministry of Infrastructure, as regulated by the existing law, are being taken over by the second ministry, and we will absorb that in a further analysis of this bill. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is the authority of the state administration and its competences and affairs are regulated by Article 12. A bill of this law. These are therefore matters relating to the Protector of Citizens, elections for republican authorities, which is newspapers, and working relations in state authorities. So here we have one newspaper, these are elections for republican authorities, which has been transferred from another body to the Republic Secretariat. The paper in the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is also a question of the position of members of the national minority and national councils of national minorities, which will now be in the new ministry. We know this area has been in the Department of State and Local Self-Government so far. The Ministry of Trade and Services in Article 13. The proposal for this law has been retained so far with regard to the workaround, i.e. the tasks to be carried out by this ministry. I would just like to point out that there is a Republic Stock Reserve Directorate as an authority of the administration within the scope of this ministry. The Ministry of Science and Technological Development is a ministry that has taken over part of jurisdiction. We have practically kept a particular corpus of solutions from the existing law, with certain newspapers, all in line with Serbia's development strategy in terms of science and technological development. We expect that the jobs done by this ministry will ensure the creation of conditions for faster economic development, for the function of science and technology in the service of a fast and dynamic economic development and the classification of Serbia in the order of post-industrial societies. Newspaper at the Ministry of Education, Article 15. The bill is one provision relating to the responsibility of this ministry and practically refers to participation in the construction, equipment and maintenance of pre-school, primary, secondary, higher and higher education facilities, and student standards of interest for the Republic of Serbia. We felt that this was a comprehensive solution and that this jurisdiction, i.e. the detour of these affairs, was being incorporated into the Ministry of Education. All those powers, i.e. the detour that the ministry had under the applicable law, were also contained in this proposal for a law. Ministry of Youth and Sports, Article 16. The bill retains some of the existing solutions to the state administration's affairs which will be run by this ministry. I would like to highlight a new provision, a new quality in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which is also monitoring and assessing the place and role of young people in the Republic of Serbia, creating conditions for the establishment and operation of national and regional offices for young people, encouraging the development of youth policy at local level, as well as other tasks of a certain law. Practically this is the implementation and development strategy for young people and other planning and action documents of our country. Certain provisions have also been developed in the framework of the youth ministry's activities and sports related to development, improvement of sports and physical culture in the Republic of Serbia. These are primarily the implementation of national sport policy and national strategy for sport development, administrative and professional surveillance in the field of sport, implementation and implementation of action plans and programmes that contribute to the development of sports in the Republic of Serbia, participation in the construction and equipment, maintenance of sports facilities and sports infrastructure of interest to the Republic of Serbia, as well as the development and achievement of international cooperation in the field of sport. The affairs of the state administration, which will be carried out by the Ministry of Health, are no different from those contained in the previous law. These are therefore extremely important issues, particularly for the population and for the citizens of Serbia in the field of health insurance, preservation and improvement of health, professional training and specialisation of healthcare professionals, as well as health inspectors. Also, in the section of this ministry, the creation of conditions for the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body, the production and transport of drugs, medical resources, as well as the jobs that this ministry has done before in the areas of public supply to the population are hygienically proper drinking water and other areas of a certain law. Of course, there are also surveillance operations in various sectors in the area of this ministry. The Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society is monitoring, as I say, the intensification of Serbia's development strategy as an information society, following a constitutional thread in this area, and the workaround and jurisdiction of this ministry will just be the development of constitutional, legal principles, the development of this strategy and the creation of conditions for the Republic of Serbia as a developed post-industry information society in all areas, from education, technology, science, economy etc. Article 19. The draft law provides for state affairs, public administration affairs relating to the labour relations and labour rights system in all forms, except for work in state bodies, which is located in the Ministry of State Administration's portfolio and local self-government. Also, in the area of this ministry, profits and other income from employment, salaries in the public sector, except in state authorities. Safety and health at work is also one of the responsibilities reserved by the existing law. What is important for the work of this ministry is areas where it works, including trade union organisation and strike. I think it is necessary to apostrophe as one of the processes ahead of our society and the need for a new political social agreement, one consensus between the Union of Employers and trade unions. I expect that this ministry, within these competences that the National Assembly will give it, is working precisely on the implementation of such one, I can freely say, a historic agreement, which will result in one responsible social policy and a much better quality position of employees, whether it is for employees in companies, whether it is for employees in other sectors. The paper, which concerns the competences of this ministry, which provides for this bill, is co-operation with international organisations in the field of labour and employment, international conventions in the field of labour, safety and health at work, and, more importantly, I want to highlight this, anti-discrimination policy, social protection system, family-law protection, marriage and gender equality, as well as population policy. The paper, and we mean a new quality of this bill, is the establishment of a gender equality administration within this ministry, which will carry out professional tasks and tasks of the state administration, which relate primarily to the implementation of a national strategy to improve women's position and improve gender equality. The mentality set, let me say, requires our society and our system to make some changes and get out of a traditional society in relation to the perception of the position of women in our society from family, employment, to the participation of women in public life. And we expect and we think, in addition to this ministry's obligation, that is, the birth equality administration, the improvement of the practical position of women and the promotion of gender equality, as well as the policies of equal opportunities, which, I will remind you, is a constitutional category. In its work, the Agency for Gender Equality will implement recommendations from the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination of Women, as well as other tasks in accordance with the law. In the framework of this ministry, the Inspectorate of Labour insists, as the body of the administration that conducts professional inspection tasks in this area What is the paper in this bill is the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. We know we had the Ministry of Ecology under the existing law. In short, I would like to say what the affairs of the state administration carried out by this ministry, the most relevant and important areas are: spatial planning and urbanism, setting up conditions for building buildings, establishing housing relations and housing, construction, construction land, municipal infrastructure, municipal activity, engineering geodesy, inspection supervision in the areas of urban and urban and municipal infrastructure, as well as other transactions by a certain law. What is important to say for the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in terms of its work is business in the field of basic geological research related to sustainable resource use, especially given the fact that the main problem is not only our continent, but also the planetary problem, the problem of natural resources and energy problems, and in this sense this ministry will play a significant role in maintaining and using natural resources, including providing material conditions. Sustainable development is one component that is inevitable and necessary, and precisely in spatial planning and the environment it will be a cohesion of these two systems and improvements in the environment. All this syntagma and this legal category means is something that this Article 20 discusses when it talks about the ministry's jurisdiction. Within this ministry, there is an Environment Protection Agency as an administration body, which performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the development, coordination and management of the national environmental information system. I will stress only one more responsibility, and this is co-operation with the European Environment Protection Agency and the European Network for Information and Observation, as well as other matters of a certain law. I would like to remind you that in 2007, the National Assembly passed the Law on the ratification of Kyoto Protocol, a strategic document of planetary importance, and that the solutions contained in this Protocol, in that convention, are matter that will be implemented and implemented in the first place by this ministry. Article 21 The bill sets out the tasks of the state administration to be carried out by the Ministry of Culture. I would point out only some of these jobs, i.e. competences, which are primarily the provision of a material basis for the work of culture, the protection of cultural goods, library, publishing, cinematographic, musical and staged work. What is particularly important are the responsibilities, foundations and funds, as well as the public information system, the monitoring of law enforcement in the field of public information, etc. In the jurisdiction of this resort remains the protection of cultural heritage, cultural creation and information in the language and letter of members of the Serb people in the region, as well as the establishment and development of cultural and information centres abroad. We have a ministry that provides for this law, new to the existing law, which is the Ministry of the NIP. We know we've had a minister with no portfolio in the government so far, who was in charge of the NIP. The strategic projects ahead of us and those projects that are to be launched and to be completed, I will mention only some of these strategic projects, which are Corridor 10, Corridor seven, important infrastructure projects in the capital, as well as other projects of national importance, are part of the work to be done by the NIP Ministry. What is specific to this ministry, it is so structured, i.e. the detour and competences of this ministry are so structured that co-operation and interaction with all other ministries is necessary and necessary and it stems from the definition of the responsibility of this ministry, beginning with the Ministry of Religion, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Ministry of KIM, all ministries. This NIP ministry will be one of the ministries that this impulse of the development of the Republic of Serbia, the development of local units, will be carried out by the development of autonomous provinces. Article 23 The bill is being organised by the KIM Ministry, a very important ministry for us. What the paper is regarding the solutions that exist in the previous law is that this ministry will carry out the tasks of state administration relating to the system of local self-government and telecommunications and these provisions more precisely define the restoration and protection of spiritual and cultural heritage in our southern province. Of course, those powers that existed as a solution to the previous law are also the formulation of a proposal for regulations that provide essential autonomy for KIM and the implementation of the state policy to protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, co-operation with the UN civilian and military mission to KIM, Unmika and Kfor, and based on Security Council Resolution 1244. In Article 24. The Ministry of Faith, i.e. the affairs of the state administration to be carried out by this ministry, shall follow the practical line and spirit of the Constitution, or constitutional norms from Article. 43, 44 and 48. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, relating to freedom of religion, religious communities, etc. We believe that the diaspora ministry needs to exist in the state administration system, given the large number of members of the Serb people living in the diaspora, both in the countries of Western Europe and in the overseas countries, and not only Serbs, but also members of other peoples, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The newspaper on the affairs to be carried out by this ministry is informing citizens of the Republic of Serbia abroad about the politics of the Republic of Serbia, which had previously been within the foreign ministry. We have found that it is more cellular, more appropriate and practical for this detour to be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Diaspora. The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is a new ministry, of great importance for the implementation of constitutional principles, constitutional norms, all of those documents signed by the Republic of Serbia and concerning the human and minority rights corps, which are practically and based on European civilization. I do not have to speak specifically about the importance of this ministry, but I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Articles 75 to 81, regulates the principles, principles and protection of human and minority rights. What is one technical paper, and as far as this ministry is concerned, is that keeping a register of national councils of national minorities, the selection of national councils of national minorities now in this ministry, and earlier it was at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. What is the quality of this law, but at all one continuity in the laws governing the ministries is a chapter of the affairs common to all ministries, which refers to international co-operation, conclusion and application of international contracts and preparation, adoption, or proposal of technical regulations. In the context of the conclusion and application of international contracts, all ministries propose the launch of a negotiation procedure and the conclusion of international contracts with other countries and international organisations, as well as the application of ratified international contracts and the conclusion of administrative contracts. The jobs that are common to all ministries, I would like to point out in particular, is that all ministries within their own work are achieving international co-operation, taking care of its improvement and ensuring compliance of the rules of the Republic of Serbia with EU law. Chapter four of this Law refers to special organisations as public administration bodies. We see that these special organizations are 13, and so far there have been 14 of them. The Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure is now attached to the Ministry of National Investment Plan, so there are 13 special organisations. Certain solutions that existed in the old law, the existing law, have also been retained in this bill. I will just briefly say about the Republic Secretariat of the Legislatives that the rules relating to working relations in state bodies and elections for republican authorities are in the work of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and so far they have been in the direction of the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives. The Republic Development Office has a reduction in the work cycle and they have been transferred to certain ministries. Here we have the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, the Republic Geodetic Institute, where the newspaper is that the supervision of the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute is carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, not the Ministry of Infrastructure, as it was in the existing law. From special organisations, this law provides for the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet, as well as the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency. I'm gonna be at this last agency for a while. Given the importance of the particular organisation's workarounds, and particularly given the need for Serbia's development in the context of a single investment swing, the provision of conditions for foreign investment, professional assistance to companies and companies that intend to invest in Serbia, this part-rounding business is certainly going towards reducing the external trade deficit, which is one of the main problems of our macroeconomic policy. Within the framework of special organisations, there is a Mine Action Centre. It is supervised by the Ministry of Defence and the Mine Action Centre has legal personality. There are the Institute of Intellectual Property, the Directorate for Internal Waterways "Plovput", the Geomagnetic Institute and the Social Security Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as members of the National Assembly, as the highest representative body and holder of constitutional and legislative authority, so we who represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and are responsible for creating a legal environment, electing and controlling the executive authority, starting with the fact that the ministries as part of an executive, i.e. executive, are most directly applying constitutional norms, and implementing and implementing laws, I consider it necessary to call on you to vote on this important law, which, in my view, represents a quality and optimal regulatory framework for the regulation of the state administration in office, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The moment in which our state and society are located, and in particular the challenges ahead, determine exactly this kind of structure of the authorities of the state administration as proposed by this law. We as a state and society are in the final phase of the transition process, when we need to strengthen Serbia as a rule of law, strengthen the principle of rule of law, create a society of equal opportunities for all, a country that will develop dynamically, and this development will be even. We need to create economic and technologically compatible systems with Central and Western European systems. This bill, this legislative project, according to us, represents a functionalisation of our strategic objectives, in the first step and first phase of Serbia's rapid accession to the EU, the accession to the EU Structural Funds, ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Serbia's strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, especially in the energy area, the defence of our sovereignty and territorial integrity, the fight against crime and corruption and the implementation of strategic social programmes and reforms. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the number, structure and workaround of the ministries, as foreseen by this bill, is optimal for us. The success of a government is not measured by the fact that we have 15, five, 26, 24 or 23 ministries. The measure of the success of one government is the balance of the government, which is the growth of gross social product, the reduction of inflation, the real growth of wages and pensions and the establishment of a leading position of Serbia in the Southeast European region, and all with the aim of raising the quality of life of our citizens to the level of quality of life in developed European societies. In the end, I just want to say that this law, in the context of and other laws, and the Law on Government, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, requires an interactive relationship between this high house and the government and the ministries, and that we all need to represent a coherent system in terms of achieving the authority given to us by the Constitution. I expect that, in the course of the debate on this bill, we will come to the best possible solutions in principle and debates in particular, so according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u364	Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want to exercise his right as rapporteur of the Legislative Committee and the Justice and Administration Committee? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs of Vjerica Radet, who gave an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee and at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandar Martinović and Nebojsa Rangelovic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee, and Judita Popovic, who gave an opinion at the session of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u365	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the MPs of the SRS who work in the Legislative Committee have disputed the urgency of the draft of this law, starting first and foremost from the Rules of Procedure on the work of our Parliament, because it is clear enough in which case some law can be found on the agenda of our session, and for the sake of the public, I have to read it because I couldn't find a single element in Article 161 of this Law. Only a law governing issues and relations can be passed following an urgent procedure that could not be foreseen. So there is nothing here in this law that could not be predicted, and the passing of the law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences to people's lives and health. I really don't think anyone would get sick if this law wasn't on the agenda today or if it was in a few days. The country's security, as we know, is not threatened in this sense, although it is, but this law certainly will not contribute, nor will the new government, to reducing it, and the work of the authorities and organisations has not been stopped, the government whose mandate has ceased and operates as a technical government, in which some ministers who will be in the next government and how they do, make decisions, name members of the boards of directors of very important institutions, and we have not noticed that it is not working. In fact, the thing that really upsets me is that by following Parliament's work and forming all these governments since 2000 -- everyone thinks it all starts with them. It's not good that it is, because it's one of the reasons why we don't move forward, but we tap in place or, unfortunately, in many segments of society we go even backwards. In an explanation for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, the proposer tells us that the adoption of the draft law on ministries by emergency procedure will speed up the work to protect human and minority rights. Somehow, it can be concluded, i.e. to make the wrong conclusion that there really are united human and minority rights in our country, by thinking of the human and minority rights of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, it certainly is. But I couldn't see it in that part of the law that talks about the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, so I don't believe that the promoter meant these human rights and these people, but by alluding to the possibility or already disturbed relations between the constituent people and the national minorities living in our country, and I really can't agree with that in Serbia. There is in the part of Serbia, in our Autonomous province, which is under occupation, but in the rest of Serbia there is no such thing. Emergency is sought for reasons allegedly to give an impulse to further develop spatial planning and to continue working on projects under the National Investment Plan. It wasn't even stopped. It's an entirely insubstantial explanation, especially that spatial planning, as something very important for every country, is placed in the jurisdiction of a ministry that has no compatibility or touch points with spatial planning, but unfortunately someone has seen it so, believing that neither the ecology deserves more importance in our country, although there have been a lot of incidents, nor spatial planning, because it's obvious that we don't really know what we want in the next five, ten or fifty years, and that all decisions in this country are made ad hoc or from government to government. Although there was continuity between these previous governments in many ways, we could also notice that there are no visions for the future. To be honest, the only thing that is true is that it is necessary to form a new government and that this law must therefore be passed. With that explanation, I could agree. (President: You spoke for six minutes. ) On page 17, concerning the responsibilities of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, in light of what the Ministry will do - it writes among other things: "Creating rules on human and minority rights, the position of members of national minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the exercise of minority rights, as well as anti-discrimination policy". It was very disturbing for me because I didn't feel there was a discriminatory policy, at least not the state authorities, towards the citizens of this country of different nationalities, especially in view of the second part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. (President: seven minutes. Here I am, just two more sentences, please understand. The second part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of human and minority rights and freedoms, where it is clearly said that the Constitution is guaranteed, and as such, human and minority rights are directly guaranteed by the generalised rules of international law, certified international agreements and laws, and that the purpose of constitutional guaranteeing inalienable human and minority rights in the Constitution which serve the preservation of human dignity and the full freedom and equality of every individual in a fair, open and democratic society based on the principle of rule of law. If this is compromised, then the reasons for urgency exist, or I could accept the explanation the promoter gave. This is how I think he really didn't bother to overexplanation and for this reason, the opinion of all the members of the board who are here from the SRS parliamentary group was to exclude our opinion. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u366	Thank you. The word is by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if they have not already attended the constitutional session of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, which is scheduled for 11.00 hours at the Blue Salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u367	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, as representative of the LDP parliamentary group on the Legislative Committee, I have issued an opinion, as well as on the previous bill, for procedural and essential reasons. I wouldn't talk too much about procedural reasons, because yesterday, we listed them quite enough. The main reasons for this will be given by colleagues, since we have proposed some amendments, so that, by giving an explanation for the amendments, we will also give these essential reasons for equating opinions. I would just add that this bill, as assessed by the Legislative Committee, is legally possible, but the fact that the application of this law goes in a package of amendments to the Government Act that we discussed yesterday. Article 45. The Rules of Procedure say - The Legislative Committee is considering the draft law, second regulation and general act addressed to the National Assembly, from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. In line with the fact that compliance with the legal system is considered, the Legislative Committee should also consider the fullness of one law, and there are a number of shortcomings on the wholeness of this bill. I won't be too long, because I said that my fellow MPs will speak of the essential reasons for considering the amendments. I'd like to ask the promoter just a few questions. I'd like to get an answer for them. First, according to the fact that the application of this law goes in a package with the application of the government law - if the evaluations are confirmed or, let's say, the Constitutional Court rules that, according to what we stated yesterday, this bill is unconstitutional, how do we apply this second law? Then how do we resolve overlapping the responsibilities of individual ministries, because in the explanation, and also in the tax-related members of each ministry, it is obvious that the responsibilities of some ministries are overlapping? Why hasn't it given up the introduction of some ministries that it's obvious there isn't a wholeness? I would also like a representative of the promoter, not only for me but for all the MPs, to explain to me about the work of certain ministries whether to apply the formal legal principle or the principle of respecting the state of play. In particular, around the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, the application and formal legal approach and the practical approach leads to the conclusion that the existence of this ministry is absolutely unnecessary. I would also ask on the basis of which legal act determines the number of vice presidents? The last government had one vice-president, now several vice-presidents are being spoken of, but I did not find in the regulation on which to determine the number of vice-presidents. Also, the question of why an emergency procedure? I wouldn't take too much time, because that's what my colleague Pop-Lazic was talking about a little while ago. I would just add that behind such an empty explanation there is obviously a political deal and a rush to implement this deal. In the end, I would ask a question, according to Article 134. The constitution, which says that the president and member of the government enjoy immunity as MPs: who abolishs the immunity of a member of the government? So, who's eliminating the immunity of the Prime Minister or the individual ministers? Apparently, on the basis of Article 134, immunity is guaranteed. This important issue is neither clearly defined in the Constitution nor clearly defined in another regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u368	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by a national MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always say to myself that no legal indemnity from the DS can surprise me any more, however, they once again convince me that it is possible. If I understand the proposal's representative well, it turns out that the adoption of the ministry law is necessary because the current functioning of state institutions in a blockade, there is no government and there is no ministry, it is necessary to pass the law in order for the state administration's apparatus to finally function. That's not true. The government works, although it's in the so-called. The technical situation, functioned by ministers, is being photographed on TV every day, giving some statements on how Serbia is approaching the EU by seven miles, etc. Apparently these are also the reasons for the urgent adoption of this law. It will be the end of the world if eight days from the day of publication in the "office Messenger" wait to be announced in order to enter into force. Approximately, this is the meaning of what we have heard today, with a very exhausting reading of what is written in the bill, as if the MPs of the SRS were illiterate or ill-written, so they cannot read for themselves what it says in the bill, but should be a representative of the Proposer to explain it in detail. However, the details of my objections to the proposal for a ministry law will be presented in principle debate. What I'd like to say now is that the way individual committees of the National Assembly function is so scandalous that such a situation can no longer be endured. Yesterday I pointed out, and my colleagues from the SRS, that the Legislative Committee has long had one practice that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is that the Legislative Committee should not propose to the National Assembly that some law be adopted or not adopted, but only whether the bill is in accordance with the Constitution or not. We again have a report from the Legislative Committee, which says, "The Committee has considered the draft legislation on ministries and is proposing to the National Assembly to accept it in principle." Again something that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure further, the legal basis for submitting the report is not chosen as it should have been. The legal basis for submitting the report is not Article 79. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rather than Article 45, which prescribes the affairs of the Legislative Committee. In the end, something that would be funny if it weren't sad, and it's really sad. Here's the thing. This is reportedly a report by the Justice and Administration Committee. I'm sorry Mr. Bosko Ristic isn't here, he's a great lawyer, he could probably explain a few things to me. First, does Mr. Bosko Ristic even know what law we're discussing today and does he know who the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee is? Why am I saying this? This is a report on the examination of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. So now we're not discussing the Ministry Act, we're discussing the law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. At least that's what Mr. Bosko Ristic says. Then he says, "The Committee of the National Assembly of Justice and Administration has been considering the draft law on the ministries... "so it's no longer the law on amendments and additions but just the law on ministries, "... in principle, which was submitted by 122 MPs." Then it is said, "By considering this proposal, the Committee has decided to propose to the National Assembly to accept in general the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act, in principle." Then what is most ridiculous: "The Committee's rapporteur at the Assembly session was appointed MP Vlatko Ratkovic, president of the Committee". Signed "The Chairman of the Committee Bosko Ristic". So it's funny, it's sad. I also draw attention to the president of the National Assembly and the lady who is currently chairing the National Assembly session, it's really embarrassing, it's really embarrassing that the committees, whose head is the graduate lawyers, who, by definition, should know these things, function in this way. You don't even have to be a lawyer to see that these reports don't match the Rules of Procedure, I doubt if children in primary school, if they were to play in a break between two school classes, could write such reports. Now you expect us to take seriously the proposal for a law on ministries or on amendments and additions, I don't even know anymore, the great law, that there are some legal solutions that no one in the world has ever invented, and you are not able to make up a miserable report of the Committee on Justice and Administration, nor do you know who the chairman of the Committee is, or any draft law, Members of Parliament should discuss. I really think it is high time that the work of the Committee of the National Assembly was presented to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because what is now being done and what has been done over the past few months, we have repeatedly pointed out, is indeed a disgrace and a disgrace to the body that should be the highest representative body of government in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u370	I thank the People's MP, Aleksandr Martinovic. It is likely that Omak MP Aleksandar Martinovic did not see or receive a correction delivered yesterday afternoon, concerning the informing of the chairman of the Committee on Justice and the management of the error which was made in writing, and I agree with that, which you quoted during the presentation of the opinion you gave on the committee. You have no right to speak. National MP Aleksandra Martinovic, return to your post and look for a word in the Rules of Procedure. No one can approach the speaker of the National Assembly until the chairman permits it. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and former National Assembly President Oliver Dulic trained me here to be strict and punished for simply quoting the title of SRS President Vojislav Seselj. It is about that famous book "Afera Hrtkovci and Ustaša whore Natasa Kandic", which has been sold out and which opened the eyes of both the local and world public what was actually happening in Hrtkovci and that Vesna Pesic, Natasa Kandic and others who wanted to even Serbia and Croatia, and that they blame the Serb people for the alleged genocide and persecution of Croats from Srema. But what you said, Mrs. Comic, is simply not true. As a lawyer, I know what write-and-calculation mistakes are. This isn't about someone making a mistake. It's about the wrong date. It's about the wrong date. It's about the wrong letter. You can't tell me it's a technical slip when the whole name of the law is missed. We are discussing the proposal for a law on ministries, and we are given a report saying - the Committee has been considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. Does that look like a technical mistake in writing and calculating? Does it look like a technical error to you when the legal basis for the report is missed, instead of Article 45 of the report in Article 79 of the report? Is it a technical mistake when it is said - a report will be presented at the National Assembly session by Committee President Vlatko Ratkovic and signed by Committee President Bosko Ristic. They're no technical mistakes. It's the result of a completely unconscious and irresponsible relationship to work. You don't care about both the EU and the European integration, and the socially responsible government, and the pensions, and the workers, the meaning of what you ladies and gentlemen are doing is to provide some legal form for the coalition agreement that you have drawn up, to do something that will be called government, to satisfy these or those individuals. What a black Rules of Procedure, what black pensioners, what a black EU. This is proof that you are treating the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine this session of the National Assembly being watched by one of your friends from the United States, Great Britain, Germany, etc. What could he say about you? These are people who will introduce Serbia into the EU. You are neither for any native countries that are still far from civilization, let alone for the EU. So, Mrs. Comic, you tell your board presidents to come to their senses, to start reading the Rules of Procedure a little bit. As for strictness, you have a chance to train on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u372	I remind MP Aleksandar Martinovic that according to the Rules of Procedure, he is obliged to impose a member of the Rules of Procedure to whom he declares his injury or considers that he has been violated. I would like to remind you that by consulting a stenogram, it can only be determined that, on the obligation of the chairman, I have provided information that MPs have received a written correction, sent by the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, Bosko Ristic, where it is written that MP Vlatko Ratkovic is not the chairman of the Committee but a member. I did not question any other claim from your exposure as a member of the People's Parliament who issued the opinion, except for information. National MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. The MP who seeks the violation of the Rules of Procedure gets a word when the previous speaker is finished. You are finished, and MP Momir Markovic came forward before you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u373	Articles 225 and 226. Before I move on to these members, to the Rules of Procedure, to correct Mr. Martinovic when he said - whether your friends are looking at it by chance in America. They don't have, Mr. Martinovic, friends, in America are their bosses. Article 225 and 226 says the MP has the right to be informed. Since this coalition began to be seen, it has been clear to the citizens of Serbia and us, the MPs, that they will begin to train strictness. To tell you the truth, I just expected at least some time to pass to spy. I know they can't see individual MPs and individual MPs. I expected that at least a month would wait, and then they would go with this attitude towards the MPs, who today presented Mrs. Comic as chairman, otherwise vice-president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, is this from the yellow company and the fast-tracked coalition around the company you plan to reintroduce the October revolution? You're not going to reintroduce Sabre, are you? Are you not going to bring out the messengers of the people out of this congregation? That you may not take away our word again, that you do not let us say what we have to say, not to you, because it is all clear to you, but to the citizens of Serbia, to see how deceived they are in the elections, in those promises you made and in the fulfillment of those promises that you are now going to have to do. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am looking at you from this yellow coalition, to warn you, the SRS will not allow you to silence the MPs of the SRS. The SRS will always present everything it has, not to you again, to the citizens of Serbia, which you are slowly introducing into both media and information, both in political and economic darkness. It won't work for you, Mrs. Comic, or anyone who sits here in your shoes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u374	I was unable to comply with the Rules of Procedure, since I did not understand what MP Momir Markovic asked under Article 225. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been injured. First of all, Mrs. Komic, you have injured Article 104(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because you have trampled the dignity of the National Assembly. You insult dignity. You insult the common sense of every MP when you say that such mistakes are contained in the report of the Committee on Justice and Administration, supposedly technical character. These aren't technical mistakes. That's a big legal slip. Instead of training your strictness here, you'd be better off distracting your board presidents if these reports were no longer sent to the MPs. If we, Mrs Comic, were to push the max to the finish line, we could actually say that we do not have a report or a Legislative Committee, or a report by the Justice and Management Committee, not only because of this nonsense about the name of the law and the president of the Committee, but because the legal basis for submitting these reports has been completely missed. I'm distracting you again, as well as the board presidents, a member of 79 has nothing to do with reporting. Article 79 regulates the majority of decisions taken at committee meetings. It is Article 45 that regulates what the affairs of the Legislative Committee are and what this Legislative Committee should actually do. Therefore, Mrs Comic, we do not have valid reports or the Legislative Committee, nor the Justice and Administration Committee. The question arises, is there any legal basis to continue the debate on a bill that we do not know exactly what it is called until we receive reports based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u376	Once again, my information was exclusively related to the correction given by the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration to the MPs, and it concerns errors in the name of MP Vlatko Ratkovic, where it was written - the chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, rather than a member of the Committee on Justice and Administration, as it should have been. I'm not going into any of your other claims, nor am I, nor will I, but we can consult a stenogram on that. National MP Judita Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u377	Presidents-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments - Chairman, thank you for the corrections - I have issued an opinion on the Committee on Justice and Administration on behalf of the LDP, which I believe is a problem for one basic reason. He is, in fact, problematic in principle, generally taking on, as he provides for 24 ministries. Twenty-four ministries cannot afford any much richer, much more developed countries in Europe, let alone Serbia with such an economy. Twenty-four ministries, and we are talking about executive power, should be the government effective, the government doing its job, and such a massive government, with 24 ministries, cannot do its job, it cannot be effective. If it's not an effective government, it's expensive, it's double expensive, it's expensive because it has 24 ministers and suites around these ministers, and it's expensive because it's not effective, it's more damage than benefits. We're talking about having one executive power that's going to think socially, which is going to be socially responsible. Where is this responsibility, if we load a government so expensive on our taxes, on our citizens, on our society as a whole? I mean, to really be one socially responsible authority, the one that's in formation, should first of all take care of saving, because saving is the one that makes it possible to get the money and give it to the one who needs it more. You will allow 24 ministries not to give much room for savings. It could solve this problem, it could solve the bill's proposal, by reducing the number of ministries, by bringing together some ministries whose division of jurisdiction is similar, or by abolishing some ministries, and thus getting a much more effective government, with a much smaller number of ministries. I wouldn't want to analyze every single member of this law right now, I wouldn't look back at the explanation we got, why this law is proposed in this form. There'll be enough to say about it today. However, I would like to draw attention to the members of the 30th to 43rd of this law, which are foreseen by special authorities, and the special authorities are those professional services. It's institutions, secretaries, directors. These are the professional services that will work for all these ministries, and that's one of the reasons why we really don't need to have such a big government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u378	Thank you. National MP Bosko Ristic seeks the right to reply. The basis for the replica is personal mention. Here you go. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u379	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President-in-Office, may not look like those you've had a chance to hear so far. It is true that the fact that there were errors in the reports was made here, there were errors in the work of professional services. However, I do not want to call anyone from the professional service, I am only making a promise to the MPs that future reports will be as correct and accurate as possible. We will try to be timely and properly informed about the work of the congregation committees. This is the beginning, I expect that professional services and all MPs will be doing their job better in the future. I thank you for your remarks. I think they've now been argued. We'll accept the criticism whenever it's argued, whenever it's true, and we'll try to fix it. On behalf of and on behalf of the members of the Committee on Justice and Administration, I say we will have more correct reports in the future, with as little error as possible. We'll try not to make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u380	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if there's an anecdote I've heard, but if you'll allow me to convince her in a few sentences. When former NDH Minister, who was extradited to the Socialist Yugoslavia in 1986, Andrija Artukovic was told that he would be shot, he allegedly told the President of the Judicial Council - so you will kill me anyway. Then the judge told him - I'm not going to kill you, I just signed the verdict. Then Artukovic told him - Mr. Judge, I didn't kill anyone, I was just signing. How is it possible that the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, Bosko Ristic, cannot read one page of the report and simply, letharic view determine whether what he signs is true or not. Is that how you, Mr. Ristic, sign every piece of paper that comes to your signature? Do you even read? Do you know what you're signing? It is signed and placed on some document because whoever signs it confirms that this document has some credibility, that it has some weight, that those who read it, third parties, can, with the conviction of one reasonable man, believe that what it says is true. This is how your explanation looks to me like you're literally playing with both the Committee and the MPs, so you don't care what the report says, is what it says true. It could say that we are, for example, discussing today the proposal for a law on hunting and fishing, and you would sign it, and then you would tell us -- you know, it's a technical mistake. I guess it's basic order, if it's really a technical mistake, to go out for this pay phone and say, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been this and that mistake, I apologize, it won't happen again. You would have kept your mouth shut if I hadn't read the report. You would have kept your mouth shut if you had signed a paper that meant nothing, which is a disgrace and a disgrace to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So you don't have enough legal or parliamentary consciences. The MPs have to hunt you down, read every piece of paper you give us, see if there's any mistake. Therefore, Mr. Ristic, you are in fact insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and the common sense of every man, every MP of the people. It doesn't have to be a lawyer at all. It's enough for a man to write and see what kind of paper you've signed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u382	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? MP Jovan Palalic, MP to the people, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u383	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we closed the debate yesterday in the principle of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, and today the proposal for a law on ministries, which is the way for the assembly majority to prepare the government's choice. When viewed comparatively, in some countries it is possible for the government itself and the assembly majority to regulate the government's work and the work of the ministries by their internal acts. Our constitution definitely regulated it by passing a law on ministries. From session to session, when the government's election is being prepared, every time the election is on the agenda, a new law is being passed, where the ruling majority defines the way they will exercise power, the way laws will be passed and other general and individual acts, i.e. defines through the ministries his vision of politics that the government will determine. What is important to note because it falls into the eyes first, is that the number of ministries increases compared to previous governments. Although we already had a publicly declared principle in public, as part of the coalition agreement, that the government will lead a socially responsible policy, it is difficult to say, on the basis of the number of ministries and the announced number of prime ministers, that the government, with this number of ministries and the additional budget expenditures to follow, can lead a socially responsible policy. So, the bill itself is actually a kind of recalling that message sent to citizens. This government cannot run a socially responsible policy, this government in some way demonstrates a kind of impertinence towards this kind of declared policy. What is also important to note, we pointed out more yesterday, but it is very important to point out in the context of the discussion of the Ministry Act, is that with this number of ministries, with the way the Prime Minister was proposed, with the fact that the President of the Republic actively participated in the formation of a government, as leader of a political party, we are entering a period of formation of a weak government. We are entering a period that, importantly again, will lead to key decisions being made not in Germany, but at Andric's wedding, and that the government's strategic policy will be defined in the Serbian presidency, not Germany's 11, as foreseen by the Constitution and the Government's Law. Now that all the discussions that have been conducted and in the laws that regulated the position of the President of the Republic and the interpretation of constitutional norms that were the subject of the discussion here, it is seen in fact that the key problem that existed in the years when we had a similar situation is the key problem that the President of the Republic is at the same time the president of a political party. It inevitably leads to the situation of a weak government, when it is headed by the ruling majority and given by the prime minister. Of course, then we are putting into a situation a principle that should have been defined by the Constitution itself, a kind of balance, as said by the bicephal executive authorities, on the one hand, of the President of the Republic, on one hand, at this point we will have a government that will only be a technical body, which will implement a policy that is otherwise established. As far as the Ministry Act itself is concerned, we see certain changes that simply impose a view that it is either political trade within the ruling coalition, or an attempt to keep coalition partners together, one way or another. So we are faced with one proposal to form an environment and spatial planning ministry, where two areas that are completely incompatible, which simply have no points of contact, are combined in this way, in order to weaken the position obviously of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which should play a very important role in the coalition agreement, and whose head should be a strong man from a political party that will make up the ruling majority, I specifically think of the SPS. So, the environment and spatial planning ministry is a hybrid, a Frankenstein, who we simply don't believe will function successfully and in the very structure of the ministry will be very interesting as well as the minister, as well as the Prime Minister, will define jobs and priorities within the ministry. What will appear as a problem with this number of ministries, with a large number of government vice-presidents announced, is the chronic problem of large governments, which is the issue of co-ordination. We are absolutely convinced that the prime minister, as suggested, with the political power he carries or does not have, will not be able to co-ordinate matters within the government. This type of coordination can only be performed by a strong political figure, and it will likely be the President of the Republic, which in one indirect way ruins what has been defined in the Constitution itself. As far as the rest of the law is concerned, it's very interesting that we had this case in the previous Ministry Act, it was an amendment to have the Agency for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure, then submitted by the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group, set out in fact to abolish the agency and to transfer the transactions it defines to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. At that time, the amendment did not go through, but we see now that the proposed law of the Agency for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure has abolished and that all jobs have been transferred to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which is now even more largely given jurisdiction and jobs. Of course, there are many other things that have been observed by our MPs, which through the amendments submitted in the debate on details will clearly point out and try to fix this, in our opinion, very bad law. We think that the policy that this government has already tried to promote, the policy of social responsibility, should be shown in part already when proposing such a law, it had to show austerity, it had to show understanding of the financial situation in which the state was found and, if not to keep the number of ministries that were in previous governments, at the very least because of this declared policy eventually to reduce the number of ministries. If we face it, and it is likely to be in the exposé of the new government's mandate and proposal, that the government will have several vice-presidents, whose authority, except for the first vice-president as defined and the deputy, are not well-known, we will probably have the largest government in Europe, the government at the same time trying to convince citizens that its first priority is social policy. I think that Serbia is sending a very bad message to this law and also to such a government, sending a message of political instability, sending a message that serious state affairs are working and defining by being the subject of political trade in coalition partners and, above all, sending a message that the government will not be effective and functional.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u384	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u385	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I apologize for not being able to participate in the work of the Assembly from the beginning, but I think a lot has been said in the previous days through attempts to explain this organisation by the future republican government. Let's say, on the one hand, the ruling coalition that intends to lead the country has the right to define the government's organisation, which will best respond to the needs of the country that the ruling coalition wants to lead, but on the other hand, the ruling coalition is obliged to offer some argument and explanation, because the decisions adopted by this law on ministries are different from some political practice that has been established in the last few years in our society. So one of the arguments that requires a serious comment is the issue of costs, on the one hand, the question of the cost of the government's work, and on the other hand, the question of the efficiency of the work of this government. Since section four of the proposed law has said that the financial resources needed to implement the law will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is very important in this debate to say how much these financial resources are and how much more expensive or cheaper this government will be than the government whose budget costs are set out in the 2008 budget. Twenty-four ministries are looking for an additional explanation, as the ministry's work organisation and the ministry's competence are also changing. Why does all this seem to be and what are the motives behind such a political decision? If we go into the jurisdiction analysis of each of these ministries, then it will be seen that there are no common criteria and that the motives that have had a crucial impact on this type of proposal are motives that do not have a foothold in the arguments offered to our public on a daily basis. One of them is that the future government will be a government that will deal with European affairs, which have been estranged for the past few years or avoided. The second criterion in forming this government was a criterion that primarily stemmed from the very character and a very complicated ruling majority, which is made up of several coalitions, and one of these coalitions insists and particularly stresses the social aspect. The government is defined as a socially responsible government. What has also been mentioned very often as an argument is that the government is a government that will speed up the kind of reforms in society that has remained on the side so far, and has been linked to overcoming these complicated social relations, which is the government among other things and some new national reconciliation. Now that these 24 ministries are being analyzed, there's going to be a lot of illogicality. It will be seen that the government has found space for 24 ministries, but has not found any space among the 24 ministries for a ministry that would deal with European integration. This is not necessary for the efficient implementation of European integration, but the absence of the European Integration Ministry leads us to conclude that in each of these ministries, of these 24, there will be a sector that will deal with European integration and thus carry out those jobs that in another government, the European Integration Ministry will perform in a different organisation. What's the problem? The problem is that these ministries are so contradictory and confusingly organised, it is impossible to carry out effective European integration tasks within one ministry, rather than enter into the jurisdiction of another ministry, which also deals with these affairs. Which one of these ministries is the most obvious? The most obvious is in two of the most important ministries, if we are talking about European affairs that are ahead of us here in Serbia. One is the Ministry of Agriculture, and the other is the Ministry of Environmental Protection. That's what was called in the previous government, and this government will call itself the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. Suddenly, spatial planning appears in the concept of the work of the Ministry of Environment, which has never been the case, and in particular has not been the case in the organisation of the work of the previous government in which the environment, finally the Ministry of Environmental Protection, is placed effectively. There was not enough results, but we do not want to say because of the inability of the minister or the failure of the ministry itself, as much as because of the fact that it was not at all the work of this government. The ministry functioned and had its logical organization. Today, spatial planning appears in the ministry. This spatial planning is linked to the environment, by being taken away as a jurisdiction from the Ministry of Infrastructure, but remains the Ministry of Infrastructure. So, we are now receiving a confusional organised ministry, and a third of Aki's communal is related to environmental issues, i.e. environmental issues. We get one ministry that's just a title, which is the Ministry of Infrastructure. On the other hand, we have the Ministry of Agriculture, which takes over in its jurisdiction a whole series of administrations, the Veterinary Administration, plant protection, the Forest Administration, the Department of Agricultural Land. But the question arises as to what is changing in the organisation of the ministry itself, which is now taking over these responsibilities for itself, and if the ministry has been organised in the same way in the current government's assembly. What gives only serious and political justification is, in fact, the fact that this government has been done by paying much more attention to the needs of coalition partners than the needs of the state itself. Of course, the large coalitions are looking for a large number of ministries, and that's something that's logical, although we can't agree on that. The government will not be much more glamorous than the other Kostunica government, only two ministries more and three vice-presidential seats, but 15 or 16 coalition partners more. So even the technical government that we are now counting on for the last few days was not a government where there was a principle of efficiency. That doesn't work now either. How it is possible to do all the jobs that are to be done in Serbia, if we have a government that, on the one hand, does not respect the principle of efficiency, and on the other hand obviously does not have the functionality needed to achieve all those objectives that the government has set before it, defining Europe, social justice and internal reform as priorities that it will devote itself to. If internal reforms are brought down to the thesis of national reconciliation, then it is clear that the way this government was set up has denied such an effort, because in principle the way this government functions is reduced to the policy of double key and great mistrust. That was clear during yesterday's debate, when we criticised the idea of a golden voice a lot, because we will only face the consequences of such a decision, as this rule, which becomes acceptable for the government's organisation, will become a rule that will, by the logic of things, be passed on to any other decision-making level. It will be transferred to sports clubs, transferred to the university, into public life and in such a way bring in a lot of confusion without any great need, unless someone expects us to agree to this mistrust and accept this mechanism as a mechanism of protection that will keep the government from the problem that is being followed by such a confusingly created political majority. But it's not something that the opposition can't agree with, that our citizens can agree on. So it is important to return things to the beginning and say how much this government costs, how much will the bill for this policy be to the citizens of Serbia? He's obviously big, because if he wasn't, he'd have faced that bill long ago. But if it's big, let's ask the question if the benefit that follows the work of such a massive government can be as great, so let's say -- well, okay, there are 24 ministries, but yesterday it was right to be one of the leaders of the ruling coalition, and 40 ministries is little for the jobs that we want to do, and here are the first results that come from the work of one such government. The results won't be, because they're illogically organized ministries. So, if we analyze what we've been doing so far, when we formed a government in 2001, we took care of the political stability of that government and agreed to the concept of a government that would have seven vice presidents, but on the other hand we respected this principle of efficiency and organized it in such a way that it could logically do its jobs. So, at the same time, the finance minister was the economy minister. Look now, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice have taken up less space in the reasons for their responsibilities than the reasoning of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Now let's hear what's within that incredible ministry. This ministry performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the economy and economic development, performs the tasks of the state administration relating to regional development. There is economic development and there is regional development. It performs the tasks of the state administration relating to improving economic relations with abroad. It performs the tasks of the state administration relating to tourism development strategy and policy. In the end, he does held jobs related to both employment and abroad, sending unemployed citizens to work abroad. This ministry has never existed in the history of our society, and this ministry is one of the biggest obstacles to the effective functioning of the government, because the illogicalities resulting from the functioning of this ministry, which have become a rule, is the political price paid to the coalition partner, passed on to every other ministry, so the Ministry of Ecology practically made the Ministry of Infrastructure a shell. We have received the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Technology, and on the other hand we have a ministry in whose jurisdiction there is traffic, which is the Ministry of Infrastructure which regulates the issue of traffic, rail, road, river, water, but not PTT traffic. Such a complicated government organisation advances the hands of every effort to do something concrete in the country, because it is obvious that something so impossible is done since it involves inter-resor agreements, and these inter-resor agreements are not possible and there are no rules of this kind. If there were room for these arrangements, then Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who had long tied himself to it, the Ministry of Infrastructure would have been the Minister of Infrastructure because the government's position was to develop the country's infrastructure, and then as the minister of infrastructure, he would have had all those instruments he needed in order for the ministry to be effective. On the other hand, the environment minister would be a man who would improve the environment system or protect the environment in this society and raise it to the level at which it must be if Serbia wanted to join the EU. So, on the other hand, the finance minister would also be a minister of the economy, so he was involved in economic development as it is done in every normal society, and he wouldn't have to stand at the door of the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, as he has 25 MPs in this assembly, who will blackmail everyone and thus block the normal work of the government. These compromises you make at the beginning bind your hands to the government itself, and on the other hand they oblige the opposition or LDP to say everything he thinks he says, not in terms of the government's tampering in the first step, because whoever won the elections, who formed the ruling coalition, has the right to profile the government's organisation and to lead this country in line with their concept. We are obliged to warn you that the Greeks you are now making, which you yourself are aware of, are mistakes that have a very high price, and not only material, but also political, that follow the compromise of one effort and idea. Our society voted for the 11 May changes, not to enter into the character of these changes now, but we will agree that the convincing majority of people in this country actually want the same thing, wants as cheap a state and as rich a person as possible. A government organization like this doesn't tell us about it. This kind of government organization tells us about the state's efforts to continue to preserve this unnatural relationship, in which the state comes first through meeting its own needs, and only in second place society as a community of citizens and citizens. When the 24 ministries are analysed, it is absolutely unclear what is the function of the Ministry of National Investment Plan, what is the function of the KIM ministry, what is the post of the Ministry of Diaspora, what is the function of the Ministry of Religion. And in particular, what is the function of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, which is reintroduced here by the government itself, which last time was excluded from the concept of government, not because we don't think there's a need to protect human and minority rights, but because it's been established, throughout the whole series of years, that there's been a practical suspension of the need for such an organised act of government itself because of the fact that many problems have been solved, that we've finally lost the UN envoys who have been dealing with human and minority rights issues, that there are advice from the national community, therefore, some other mechanisms that protect human and minority rights. This cannot be done by the executive authority, some other institutions have to do it, while these institutions have stepped on their feet and it becomes their obligation. This is how the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights becomes one card in this political game, in which everyone initially asks to have a certain card in his hand. We are witnessing that market where the ministries from one portfolio are transferred to another resort, from one party to another party, and it cannot be left without comment. Such a political composition is a composition that will cost this country dearly. We think that those who have proposed the ministry law were obliged to tell us what will happen to the personnel left in those ministries, whether among other things this decision to take personnel through the shut down of the NIP office, the Agency for the Development of Local Self-Government Infrastructure, and all these various administrations that are being transferred, whether they are being transferred to the departments with personnel or brought to their place by some new party people. What will happen to state secretaries who are employed and who have the law defined mandates, will they remain in office or leave? It's very important because of the principle of this party state that we want to disarm. Is it possible now to show this European commitment, among other things, through affirmation of this so far unacceptable thinking, advocating political similarity as a criterion and affirming professionalism as something that needs to be built on by the state administration, because we are actually talking about it here. When we were forwarded these proposals and the government law and ministry law, then it was clear that a separate debate on one law and another could not be held. To this we were forced yesterday, no decision was needed to allow us a comprehensive debate, and therefore today we have to repeat part of what we were saying during yesterday. Who exactly is the president of this government? That's a very important question, because with 24 ministries we have the Prime Minister, we have the Deputy Prime Minister and we have three Deputy Prime Ministers. Each of these figures enters with major political obligations into this government and it is very important to know who will be the leader of the 24-nation government and 28 members. If that's the prime minister, then we're witnessing the fact that we got the prime minister after this kind of government organization was built. This wasn't Mr. Cvetkovic's project, because he was the last of those whose name appeared in the composition of this government. If these are DS coalition partners, then they enter that government in the same way they did when they formed the ruling coalition, primarily looking after their interests and looking for political support that would give weight to their interests, rather than for agreements that would push each coalition partner's interests into a second plan and put European integration, reforming society and resolving the country's difficult economic and social problems. That's why we can't vote for a law like this. The government is not functional, the government is expensive, the government can partially justify a complicated coalition, but in this situation it is a problem for the coalition, not for society. You've had to arrange your relationships in such a way that the first plan will always be the ability of this government to work effectively, and not a sense of satisfaction because each of the coalition partners has received some resolution and thus has dug himself into these state positions, with which they will be more effective in taking care of their own interests or interests of their party and their constituents. The moment the government takes charge of the state, it no longer has the right to take care exclusively of its voters. You too, Mr. Krkobic, when you become Deputy Prime Minister, you must fully observe both pensioners and young people. The same applies to representatives of the parties coming from the national communities, the same applies to the DS. The moment the government forms all your party views go into another plan. Through this government organization, we have no guarantee that this will happen, but we have obvious proof that the policy of double key, mistrust, something that cannot be ignored at this time, and a government that does not trust itself and a government that does not have the ability to organise itself, can hardly count on citizens to believe it and have the ability to move an unorganized state from the dead corner in which it is located, and these are two major anomalies. The ministry of the national investment plan is unnecessary, as state internationalism has not done Serbia any good. After two years, we cannot point our finger at one result of the National Investment Plan, unless the result is the village of Mladjan Dinkic. So in one election, the national investment plan, in other free action elections, in the third election, Mercedes and fiyate. This is not the basis for forming a ministry for the national investment plan. The ministry of human and minority rights is unnecessary, i.e. it is not enough to explain the fact that a coalition partner should get a ministry to be presented in the government. The Diaspora Ministry without any results, apparently there is no political space for the development of the kind of relationship that is formally in the context of the formation of such a ministry. Our diaspora is not interested in political developments in Serbia. We finally see this through the results of all the choices left behind, in which, in a minimum percentage of diaspora, she used her legal right and participated in the elections by supporting a particular political option. The KIM Ministry, you are alone in the comments that followed the formation of the government said it was unnecessary, that it was without results, that it was a much more political body than an effective government body that would solve the problems that exist in the KIM space. Finally, the Coordination Centre has been doing a very good job for years. What we need to talk about, about the Ministry of Faith. The state has nothing to look for in this sector. If there was a need for a government role at one point, that need was long since exhausted and if church support was needed, that is, defining some of the relations between the state and the church, this need has long been met and there is no need for such a thing anymore. Finally, in the previous session, the Ministry of Faith was merely the cause of unnecessary conflicts and misunderstandings within the religious communities in our society, which is logical, since the Ministry stems from one political will, and political will is often not compatible, is not compatible with what is the essence of every religious community in our society. The ministry kept silent before what was happening during the Serbian Orthodox Church parliament, the ministry kept silent and mistakenly commenting on divisions in the Islamic Serb religious community and the ministry was unable to suggest the state's role to play in order to overcome certain problems, which means that it is losing justification for the existence of this ministry, because the government has nothing to look for. Our MPs will say a lot about these arguments, i.e. in the reasons in the amendments that we have submitted, but these are two basic problems in this government. One is -- the government doesn't trust itself, and that's why society can't trust such a government. The second, very important and serious question, is the issue of the government's ability and efficiency, because it is not organised in such a way that it can solve problems, and thus loses the importance that the government must not drop since it has been chosen to change the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u386	Since there are no more reported for the words of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the debate by application of the word. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written statement, with a number of MPs, submitted: the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS-NS parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group. The first to report for the word is National MP Natasa Micic, LDP, followed by MP Milan Lapcevic, DSS-NS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u387	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would be good if I could say something positive about this bill at first. But I have to notice that this is one of the few draft laws that I can't say anything good and positive about, except maybe an argument that -- well, there are some classic ministries that have existed for centuries, but you'll agree with me that it's not an argument. It's simple, as if he was trying to get us a law that was actually prepared on principle -- the worse for society and citizens, the better for the users of the government. You have so much propagated the European character of the government, and then at the first step in forming a government law, you have not considered European solutions at all. Why is this law not prepared in accordance with European solutions? That way, it wouldn't happen if we had the most massive government, not only in the region, but also in Europe. So countries with far greater population, more developed, richer countries, such as England, Germany and France, have only 15 ministries. Secondly, this European character, I really don't know if you have accidentally left out and whether it will be corrected by some of the vice-presidents being in charge of European integration, there is no ministry that is particularly responsible for European integration, and there is no obligation, which is why we have submitted the amendment, all ministries, to draw up a plan for the realisation of European integration. I hope you will support that amendment to correct that mistake. Of course, everyone talked about it, the basic argument why this law is bad is -- that this government is massive, overpriced. Expensive, therefore, not only because of its numbers, but because it is both infunctional and inefficient. I'd add two more reasons why she's too expensive. This number makes it easier, i.e. enables more corruption, first of all. Secondly, it reduces the ability to control the government. So not only by numbers, but also by these other principles, this is one truly absolutely socially irresponsible government. Mr Jovanovic also spoke about it, of the 24 ministries, four are absolutely unnecessary -- the Ministry of National Investment Plan. It's pure demagogy and pulsism -- the state is going to split the money there. Well, it's a good thing you didn't think of someone else -- for example, the Department of Free Action, maybe you could have that idea. It is also unnecessary for the ministry of Kosovo, which, gentlemen, we all know has not produced any result from the previous government, which is simply a continuity with Kostunica's government, except for that secret action plan that the members of the government didn't even know about -- that ministry didn't really produce any results. I also find it unnecessary for the Ministry of Diaspora. It could've been some office at the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Faith. After all of the LDP, and especially for the reason that it has advocated itself in its economic programme, as you know, in addition to abolishing the monopoly and reducing state spending, it will not vote for this law. In the future, when you talk about this government being socially responsible, I will consider it a real cynicism. Secondly, this government, according to this law, does not have a European character, and I can tell you that neither is the government of national reconciliation, since reconciliation is not possible without purification, or determining responsibility -- this is just one government of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u388	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS group's MP, and then by MP Milan Lapcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, until Serbia is such a well-organised country that in the Constitution you have a law on ministries and it is a constant that does not depend on the regrouping of forces, on coalitions, on the number of partners, on the blackmailing capacity of partners, until almost every year we will have a government law and a ministry law, as if every year we are building a new state. What a situation we're in. The MPs are now proposing to us a law on ministries and government laws, for you of the ruling majority have moved, spoken for a month, established what solutions are best, what all ministries should exist, the work of their work in the field of state administration, and you have proposed that to the National Assembly. Even the MP defends the bill here, explains the solutions negotiated by Tadic, Dacic, Mr. Markovic, Mr. Krkobbiæ, and above all, Mr. Dinkic, who really didn't miss anything here, like the last time, so he even had to react to the amendments. In that outdated 2007 law, as you baptize him here, the government can't operate under the old 2007 law. I wish you'd said - the 77-year-old law needs some work done. I wish Serbia had such laws that neither government nor future power will dispute. So we need that split into two big blocks, which leads inevitably to the change of government after almost every election cycle, and there are necessarily two, because in developed democracies no one stays longer than two mandates in power -- not the people, and neither will the ministers, they want to. Too many demands addressed to ministers, too many promises, too many bribes, too many bribes, too many bribes, too much corruption, they don't want to put too much into it, and they know that someone from the opposition is coming out to find out what they were doing first. The most important thing for you is not to lose power. You'd kill us if you didn't lose power. For example, in Belgrade you can see - you are able, who knows what else is preventing you from starting and physically harassing those who say, and what if we are in power. There's more to it than that. One of them is bribery and corruption, in which you've put it. Not you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you serve. They'll give you, throw you something off the table, some board of directors, something, in some ways some of you will please, and some will remain unsatisfactory and naturally unsatisfactory, some of you can never please. What kind of government is this? What will come of these ministries? Let me point to just a few shortcomings and several conflicts that will arise in this government, which you will have to solve, only God knows how, that is, on a thorny path that many people who want to do something about Serbia will have to cross over and break the thresholds of the ministries, on the authority of several ministries in some areas, on the lack of the Ministry of Natural Resources. How come it didn't occur to you that we finally once protected this little fortune we have? You know what our fortunes are, what we have in the country. Now that he's investigating, digging, extracting, processing, you don't know. Who cares about that? Several ministries: environmental protection, agriculture, forestry and water, mining and energy. There's no telling where the final paper is obtained for research, for test drills, for work. That's why foreign companies, especially Canadians, mixers in Serbia. They know exactly where the location is, first taken from the satellite, and then our people for money determine the exact location per meter. You sold almost everything without any protection. When you sell Bor, you sell finds. It does not occur to the minister that the law prohibits the sale of sites, but signs a contract to sell sites. What kind of government is this gonna be? That's funny. Once again, every political party has its own government, every president of the political party, the Prime Minister, and the one who's used to pulling, here he is, re-rounding his ministry to everything and everything. Here, let me just run a little bit. What's civil protection doing at the Department of Defense? Since when is it a defense job? Isn't civil protection a particular sector in society, which cannot be cared for by the defence minister, which is unrelated to the defence ministry. Let's not talk about the Mine Action Service. You scared the whole of Serbia again with the demining system. Job description on the entire page. Where are those mines in Serbia? I spat through all of Serbia, mountains, forests and rivers, why don't you tell me where that administration is going to spend budgets? You launder money, like this one for these ski resorts, elevators and snows on mountains that don't snow. You launder money, you channel funds, you spend on campaigns. As of now, G17 plus is starting to make money for the campaign, because they never know when they're going to think about destroying a government. With their three per cent, they will always blackmail every new one to be on his list and get these ministries, to take care of Serbia as a whole. Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, then to yourself and tourism and ski resorts. Imagine a description of the ministry, so it says: ski resorts. Is this a ski resort so important that it enters a description of the work of the ministry in front of the MPs? Because the minister skis, because he can paint himself skiing. What will the Ministry of Economy, and here again have a conflict of several ministries, employment abroad? The economy ministry takes care of workers who are to be employed abroad. The ministry worries as it employs them, and then the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs takes care of employees abroad. With fighters, when someone adds it to me from there, I'm just surprised they're adding it to me on my left, you've foreseen the protection of the fighters from Serbia's Liberation Wars. What are Serbia's Liberation Wars? Where is this definition of Serbia's Liberation Wars, and what do you think Serbian Liberation Wars are? Have these been wars since 1991? Is defending against aggressors a Serbia's Liberation War? Were "The Storm" and "The Flash" in the course of Serbia's Liberation Wars? Are these the disabled from Serbia's Liberation Wars? I don't suppose you've got a list of any of the Balkan wars yet, but I'm guessing he's gonna get the money out of the budget. Where are your Chetnik pensions here? Since when did this law come into force, when did we even the Chetniks and the Partisans? Not for the Chetniks, waiting for them to die, to die. You have the Department of Gender Equality. What about Natalie in Serbia? Who's gonna worry about that? It must be done multidisciplinaryly by now. Aging nation. 75 per cent of Serbian citizens go to the polls, in some areas 90 per cent or 100 per cent of citizens go to the polls. No kids. You don't have an administration to take care of your children and your birthright. Isn't that gender equality protected through the area of human rights? Why do you make it so special? You know how many such administrations should be singled out, but you're courting someone who's going to give maybe about five hundred thousand euros to make that administration work, so it's going to be on TV for five days, day six, dark. Twenty-four ministers! The Diaspora Ministry. How much irony and sarcasm are there in this sentence? He says, "He does the tasks of the state administration relating to improving conditions for the achievement of the electoral rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad." What are you lying about? Did I submit amendments to the bill on the selection of MPs who are scheduled to vote by written means, with sufficient clear identification? You refused those amendments. There's no improvement if you don't let them vote from home. If we were to get together, with the exception of DSS, and it seems to me to be the DSS, I'm not sure, the costs of the people you've sent abroad to follow the elections, to take care of them, for the eight thousand votes that have arrived from abroad, would need someone to drive you out of this assembly. He has to vote at the consulate or at the embassy and it's sometimes five hundred or thousand miles away. You know no one but the embassy staff will be there, but you send in every embassy for 15-20 box guards. These kids couldn't get through the Assembly building here. "What are you doing here, kids? "To collect the logs, we controlled the elections." Which party? Some have not fought for censorship at all, and some have barely skipped the census. This improves the conditions for achieving the passive voting rights of our citizens living abroad. Make it possible for them, as they can all over the world, to vote from home, and there are ways to make an identification and that you are absolutely convinced that it is them. You're afraid of those voices. What a diaspora, you need money to get there, and for the voices you're terrified of them. You would never be in power if Serbs or Serbian citizens living abroad could vote because they live in countries where the state is valued. They appreciate their Serbian citizenship and see how they defend the state they live in. To give you authority, you who say to Kosovo and Metohija: "The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the Serb areas of Kosovo and Metohija." Who is this traitor who was allowed to write it? Perhaps you will do so, but you will write that you will worry only about Serbian areas in Kosovo and Metohija? Are not all areas in Kosovo and Metohija Serbian as part of Serbia? You insist on Resolution 1244, and you already interpret it as it pleases those who conduct it on the ground, as well as Albanians living downstairs. You have a blockage in your brain. You have lost Kosovo. You only act, in front of those for whom Kosovo is not lost, that you will defend it. How can you defend him in "Serbian areas of Kosovo and Metohija"? Gentlemen from Kosovo and Metohija, what are these Serb areas in Kosovo and Metohija? Give us that ticket. Let's see what you're interested in in in Kosovo and Metohija, and what you're not interested in. Where don't you care if anyone lives? Where doesn't need health care? Where doesn't need school? You also want to worry about what you said about the church, the operation of the Serbian Orthodox Church. The ministry of Kosovo and Metohija to take care of the functioning of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Since when? Since when do you care about the functioning of the Serbian Orthodox Church? When did you mix up the church and the faith again? That's all he can do when he gets off the wagon and the rope. Patriots, religious fanatics, and nepatiotes, and Euro-Atlantic integration have gathered. Well, at least about those integrations, you write something here. You have an agreement signed. Why don't you predict him here for someone to carry him out? The ministry will spend the most money on each and every one of them, and the National Investment Plan Ministry will spend the most on them. The budget in which we all stand out and which is intended to finance certain purposes, suddenly has a special part -- a national investment plan. All ministries, instead of investing in their budget needs, are receiving investments from a special part of the budget -- for the national investment plan. Who's holding that? Yellow. How much money is there? Only God knows. Is there any control? There isn't. There's no asset control, no spending. How do you spend the money? Through the municipal boards of the DS. Anyone looking for funds from that plan has to get the consent of the OOD. In Vojvodina, Pajtic directly decides on all NIP funds. Now your coalition partners will have to pardon you, to say, give our municipality something, give in this community where we are with radicals in the coalition, give some money. You're going to say, no, kick the coalition out there first, so you're going to get money from the NIP. If someone else did that, it would be condemned by the European democratic public; when it does DS, anything is possible. You're allowed everything. You will teach others that everything is allowed. Don't forget, everything you do has to come back to you. You still don't think of your behavior while you're in power as the behavior of one who will one day be in opposition. You think that most of the time you're going to be in power, that these combinations can do more, that these pressures can do more, that these threats can do more, that these blackmails can do more, that these purchases can do more? He can't do anything anymore. All those people who join you, who sold half of Serbia for free, one day they stop in front of their children, so the kids will read in the paper, Dad, that three years ago you attacked these yellows that they sold "Sartid" for free, what are you with them now? For attacking them that the CK was sold for as much money as it was earned by selling one floor. Why did you join them? When children become adult, they know everything. They will ask you, gentlemen, who will be with the yellows to participate in all this, what you have joined them. What did they do well after all those evils, what did they do well to join them? I don't know, even in front of a grandson who's three and a half years old, I wouldn't have any more excuses, and you guys who have kids who have kids, what do you think at night? What happens in the morning when you stand in front of the mirror? How come you don't cut yourself when you shave, do your hands shake, what do you do? It doesn't matter who's going to be the minister, who's going to be driving the service car, who's going to have a secretary and a free cell phone. It's important here what happens to Serbia in five days, ten, 20, 50. It's not Serbia's record, so now you listen to one side, turn the other, anything can happen again. No, something has to have continuity. As far as we're concerned, every government has the right to build its own frameworks in which it will operate. We're just discussing this now to see what our objections are. We can't influence these laws of yours, which you're about to establish, but we're going to affect the Serbian public when other laws come out of this, which are actually going to prove what we're warning you about right now. With you who gets in the car to plow he pulls his butt, which you would say to me in the village, which some of you need especially to explain. We don't want any part of it, nor can we participate in it. We will patiently build our position. I call again on Serbia not to clone after what you will do to it in a few days. Serbia has never disappeared and failed, so neither will you yellows manage to bring it into that state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u390	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic. Name the basis for your call.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u391	In short, Mr Nikolic said at one point that the DSS had representatives abroad on election committees. I can tell you, there was absolutely no DSS representative on election committees abroad, nor have we ever dealt with this election tourism, nor will we ever deal with it. Therefore, simply for the public's sake to point out that the DSS has never had representatives in any election committees, nor has it sent anyone from Serbia abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u392	Mr Tomislav Nikolic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u393	I'm sorry if you misunderstood me. I said I knew about the Democrats that they didn't send without me knowing about you, but you'll probably say from the pay phone whether or not you did. I didn't say you sent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u394	Thank you. The word is Mr. Milan Lakcevic, and let Mr. Jorgenka Tabaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u395	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today a law on ministries which is essentially based on yesterday's debate on government law. Today, we need to make all the remarks on the proposal for a ministry law and tell the citizens of Serbia what they expect with the new government and new ministries. After the elections, in which various political parties presented different arguments and their efforts to represent certain interests in future authorities, there was an incomparable majority who absolutely did not represent the likes and did not represent the same attitudes in the campaign, and now they will implement a single policy. Clearly, the new government's single policy will be nothing, and they have already called their new government a socially responsible government. Let's see what's socially responsible. It was probably thought that the previous government, which was blocked in one period and therefore had to resign in order to go to the polls, was socially irresponsible, so it is now socially responsible. Let's see how socially responsible the government is. It is understood when it is said to be socially responsible that it also means that it is thriftful, rational, efficient and that it will try to spend as little money as possible on its work and that it leaves as much money from the budget as possible for those users who receive adjudications according to the various basics of the budget. In the beginning, Article 2 speaks about which ministries are foreseen in the future government. It is already seen that the number of ministries is increasing by two, and that the number of cabinet members of the future government will be much higher than it is present and will be the government that will have the largest number of cabinet members or the largest government probably in Europe, and certainly in the region. I watched the internet a little bit and came up with data that, for example, all countries in the former SFRY environment have between 14 and 18 cabinet members, Macedonia has the highest of 23 cabinet members and 18 ministries, while Serbia will have 24 ministries and 28 cabinet members. France has 16 members of the government, Germany also, Greece 17, Romania 18. So, there is no reason in the beginning that the government is called socially responsible, if there are already a dozen ministries that are divided by resolutions, only to be a means to boost coalition interests. A new environment and spatial planning ministry is being introduced. I must say that this is not a unique case, that even in some countries in the environment there is a Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, but on a completely different basis, this ministry is formed and a different timetable has been established in other ministries, and in this respect the forces, namely in this regard the jurisdiction of the state administration in these ministries, which are listed in Article 2 of this Law, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning has been illogically created, namely one conglomerate from the affairs of the state administration in the field of environmental protection, to construction, infrastructure, inspection and similar things that are absolutely incompatible with one another. I guess that's why the Ministry of Infrastructure, which needs to take care of Serbia's underdeveloped infrastructure, roads, railways and other infrastructure problems, will belong to the minister from another political party, so it needs to be taken away from him competence in the area of planning, so that the other ministry can be controlled. So, in the beginning coalition partners don't trust each other and the fact that they introduce and the golden voice speaks enough about that government not having a single policy and that there has to be a mechanism to control ministers from other parties, so they don't have too much power. The government will not have a single policy, nor will it be able to function. The explicit conclusion is that the government will not be rational or efficient, which is essentially the request of Serbian citizens, because every country, and especially Serbia, which is not sufficiently developed, wants, above all, to have a cheap state, cheap ministries, cheap public administration, and on the other hand effective, so that these ministries can work on state development and general prosperity. In all, the final conclusion is that this law on ministries of trade between coalition partners, that nothing is good for the citizens of Serbia, because it will have new commitments in the budget, or more allocations for the ministries, and less for those social benefits that are to be covered by Mr. Jovan Krkobibic, as the oldest vice-president of the government, that there will be more allocations for public spending, therefore, all that Serbian citizens do not need. As such a government, I believe it won't last long.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u396	Thank you. Let me inform you, before I give my word to Mrs. Jorgenka Tabaković that, in accordance with Article 85(6), we will have an extension of the session after 18.00 hours at this point, in case we do not finish it until 18.00 hours. Here you go. Let Ivan Andric, the MP of the people, prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u397	Citizens of Serbia, respected colleagues, we considered government and ministry laws in May last year as a framework for the assembly of a coalition and as a framework for government behaviour. This year we have a newspaper. The proposal for a government law and ministry is, in fact, the result of the experience of mutual relations between former coalition partners. In the past Government Act, we had a need to prevent a conflict of interest, or DSS was trying to curb the realization of that triangle -- politics, business and power, which was decorated in Mr Djelic, who through the 'altis consulting', the 'altis investment' of the company, earned millions of euros meanwhile by doing business and valorizing his extraordinary economic knowledge and government, part of that coalition, tried to prevent it. This time in the Government Act we have the prime minister's golden voice, because what you did to Vojislav Kostunica is trying not to let anyone do to you tomorrow. That's what Mr. Nikolic rightly told you. Everything you do, wait for it to happen to you, and you're trying to make sure of it. Let Serbian citizens think about it. When it comes to the Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government, I am much more concerned, not because of the number of ministries, but because of the approach that the framework for further government behaviour is being built. This isn't just the calming and concessions of coalition partners. This is a much more difficult thing, because this is how the government and the ministry are formed and the prime minister's exposés, whatever his name is, sees all the future behaviours of superhuman Dinkic, who, with his octopus G 17 plus continues to conquer the power called greed, based on the citizens' money, and through the political power that, by a very large number of false promises and frauds, are realized in the elections in Serbia. That's what worries me. If you miss this moment of opportunity to put your hand in the control of the public and the hand of the state on two agencies, the Privatisation Agency and the Deposit Insurance Agency, through which billions of euros are going through, what public interest are you talking about, and what kind of concern are you talking about about the citizens and what kind of responsible government are you talking about? Mr Dinkic failed to put under control last year's Infrastructure Agency because it remains the only channel where donations come and where local self-government is controlled. The DS and DSS gentlemen wouldn't let him do that. This year, the conquest of the octopus resulted in the following solution: The NIP ministry takes over employees, rights, competencies and everything else from that Infrastructure Agency. You know what the law says, respected citizens of Serbia, only through a single word called "projects" have taken over all the total competences of that Infrastructure Agency. If someone expected me to define in three sentences these two laws and that frame for a dark picture waiting for Serbia, I could define it this way. Not only is it that there is uncertainty of employees whose ministries have been abolished from May to this day, so they are being taken over, moved, etc., and those employees who are not safe at work are aware that, with political obedience, they may be able to retain their bread bark and their wages, resulting in a specific type of pressure on employees in the state administration and loss of quality, because all those who can manage and something is worth leaving a job where there is continued uncertainty. Because the one you're praying to is not angry with him. It's one of the consequences of these laws, and you know how much it takes for a quality structure of what bureaucracy is in a positive sense of the word. What is the most tragic consequence is that you and all of us are making it impossible to control the spending of public funds, i.e. citizens' resources, by structuring the budget differently each year in terms of ministry employees, the cost of their salaries, and by not allowing us to monitor the growth and awakening of the administration through politically similar staff. You, in fact, not only are you making peace with coalition partners, you're allowing yourself an illegal spending that no revision can deliver as a precise report through which we can track what you're doing. Is there any valid list in these acquisitions of people, rights, obligations, funds and equipment, whether any of the economic laws are based on the reporting that the line has been drawn, the commitments made by the previous one, what is the successor of the next minister? What records are being downloaded and how much funds, money and time are being spent in Serbia and why? So that you can spend through such cloudy and mixed cards and tell us stories - big public spending. Respected Serbian citizens, not a big public spending problem, the public spending structure is a problem. If in one family, in the same family budget, one family member is starving and the other is going and buying a tourist arrangement for the Caribbean, is it budget size or consumption structure? Those who stand up for the Export Promotion Agency here may choose to say at what time shopping tours are being made in New York with the alleged promotion of our products. That's what the data is about, not in the travel agencies, right there in that Export Promotion Agency. Someone tell me if in that budget, health care, education, police officers have decent salaries or if someone through the budget item of a special service is flaunted as the irresponsible heirs are flaunted. Dear citizens, these are not irresponsible heirs, these are those to whom you have given trust, those who consider by the skill of leading the state the skill of staying in power. Think about it carefully, and I'll tell you that the newly introduced Ministry of Human and Minority Rights was abolished in May 2007, that certain ministries had agencies called the special authorities of the administration, for example. For customs, he knows he's a special authority of the administration and who has control over her, but that's why he doesn't write what the IRS is and who has control over her. Why is it that no one has the right to control the waterways and one flight control branch? You're delivering material that's not worthy of founders. With such inconsistencies, where you list us jurisdiction, for example. in the Ministry of Finance, please state that you are in charge of monetary-credit policy, that they are in charge of lending, of privatization of banks, but you are not telling us that you have no jurisdiction or control over the Agency for Privatisation and Deposit Insurance, where in the past year, you, not us, any of you, 3.5 billion euros, since the privatisation of MOBTEL billions and a half, of the Pannonian Bank 122 million, of the sale of the license to Austria's Mobile 320 million, of the DDOR 220 million, etc. Then they come out for the same state administration, ministers, officials, governors with claims that there are only 315m euros in foreign deposits in the state budget. Could it be that, respected citizens, colleagues, that someone keeps those billions as foreign reserves somewhere, and we don't know for what reasons and at what price, that there are mutual accusations of what they've been spent on, and that we don't know, that these two agencies are here on the list of organizations that we have insight and ministers controlling? No, it couldn't have happened. But that's why some agencies, like the Infrastructure Agency, are where flow water heaters are the bone money that you're gnawing around as a coalition and in the end Mladjan Dinkic, as always, from 2000 to today, wins by putting his paws over what's called financial flows. It is devastating for all of us and for me as an MP in front of the SRS who sits here because the state has no insight into the spending of that money, and the organisation of the ministry and the government is an opportunity for this, but insight and control of the spending of that money have individuals who are raised above the law and above the institutions. Translated to a specific example looks like this. Mrs. Vesna Djindjic writes an e-mail to all the bankruptcy managers, who hold significant assets of companies under bankruptcy, and writes them a list of eight banks where money from bankruptcy can be held, from Prokred Bank and beyond, Rajfazen and all the names of banks from Austria, Hungary and others, even those, there is only one Commercial Bank that is on that list and in which there is domestic capital. That's how he takes care of state money, people's money, and that's how political influence and control over that money is misused, there's no finance minister and no one around it, but that's why individuals who didn't describe these two agencies put through their own ministry called the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but they have recorded and factual control over every dinar and euro that passes there. The new ministry of spatial planning and environmental protection is also a novelty in this organization. What is most interesting to me, and through the experience of the citizens of Vojvodina, is how people's money is used to discipline local self-government exactly as Mr Nikolic told you. Just because part of the building permits, inspection supervision of construction and municipal infrastructure has taken over the ministry, it will be a very direct way to either slow down the development of a certain municipality if opposition or encouraging the development and creation of successful managers of some municipalities because the state money is used under discretionary law, according to how someone likes it, and not according to established criteria. Mr Dinkic has circled his financial power and I believe that he will be subject to the Ministry of National Investment Plan because that agency he has received comes into his jurisdiction and you, gentlemen of the DS, are practicing on this law your political skills to build an unsuspecting ruler who will not have a worthy successor, and all Serbian citizens will have damage called - you have fenced a ban on using political power and national money among yourselves. But that's why you have critics, Serbian radicals, which from the exposés, which we expect very soon, until the day until the G17 decides to re-schedul each of your moves, resulting in material damage and an ever worse standard of the Serbian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u398	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u399	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a second proposal from the ruling majority, and unfortunately we cannot agree with this bill as LDP MPs either. It is clear, however, that this bill, which should be organised by the future government and the government's accompanying state bodies, is not done as logically as it would be, by drawing up some priorities from some programme unity of the ruling coalition, from these priorities, some work plan, which would then be followed by some kind of organisational structure, which would be the most effective in implementing the plan. No matter what, at least in public, some goals are declared, this shows a whole other purpose. Namely, this bill is as if it was written by listing all state functions or all positions in the country, which are then in the existing coalition of 14 or 15 parties shared, and according to the strength or blackmailing power of the coalition partner, so are the rules of the ministry and the other authorities of the administration. The bulkiness of the cabinets, the size or number of ministries is sufficiently speaking and that is already in itself enough reason that we cannot support such a bill. It is clear at first sight that at least four ministries are completely unnecessary, that many of these others can connect with one another, but it is not our job, it is the work of the ruling majority. What is not the job of the ruling majority, however, or we could illustrate it this way. It is your right to arrange for each other according to the proportion you think is necessary, but it is not your right to use these proportions in such a way as to just add up the ministries. The same proportion in each other's relations could have been achieved with a smaller number of ministries. So, when you look at this hasty that says this where the only functionality of this bill is the sustainability of the ruling coalition, it is clear that it has not been taken into account what the objectives have even been declared. I only pulled two examples. We've made a lot of amendments that we're trying to solve. The head of our parliamentary group, Mr Jovanovic, has already warned that it does not exist, despite the declared goal, which is to join the EU, the European Integration Ministry. The answer is that the Deputy Prime Minister will be in charge of such a thing, however, if it is one of the main objectives and given the size of the job, there must have been a ministry of European integration, as one of the main objectives. Regardless of the political differences on how to join the EU, all parties in Serbia accept the objective of adapting Serbia's legislation with the legislation of developed EU countries. It's a huge job that gets in the way of all the ministries. It was necessary to build a ministry to deal with this. Since this is not available, the LDP parliamentary group has proposed a mechanism to be installed in your proposal for a government law, a mechanism that would allow this harmonisation of Serbia's positive rules to be done as quickly and efficiently as possible. We'll talk more about it when the amendment comes. In addition to always supporting all human rights concerns, my second remark concerns the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. It is true that the issue of human and minority rights in the past few years has been in some way neglected in relation to the period of the government of Zoran Djindjic, but the problems that caused it were not institutional in nature. It was not necessary to establish a new ministry to resolve this. We prefer to think that there was a problem of personal solutions within the Human and Minority Rights Service, under the auspices of the government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly the inactivity of the service and the political lack of will to continue to work on implementing this important principle for our society. However, you have now proposed the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, but an indication that this is not a ministry that should be seriously addressed, but only a place for one of the officials of the ruling coalition, it is clear that the key problem in implementing human and minority rights in Serbia is not addressed to this problem. Namely, all possible competencies are listed. Among other things, you remembered the responsibility of representing the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights, but the key problem is not that. The key problem is that the court, the European Court of Human Rights, is making some judgments, which the state of Serbia does not implement in life. This ministry needs to be in charge of that, too. Unfortunately, we are not sure that these objections become an integral part of our law and therefore it is unlikely that we will vote for this law. I just have to repeat once again, the fundamental function of this law is the sustainability of the ruling coalition, not the implementation of the declared objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u400	The word has Nikola Lazic, and please prepare Mr Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u401	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the draft law on ministries, which is on the agenda today, is compatible and complementary with the amendment and addition of the Law on Government, which was held yesterday, and one and another proposal will be dealt with during the debate in particular. The draft ministry law takes place in light of what is already widely said in public, which is that the future government will be the most massive in the region, and one of the most numerous in our political history. The fact itself undermines the announcement that the future government, which would rest on these foundations, will represent a socially responsible authority, given that the introduction of new cabinets, the increase of the administrative apparatus will increase state costs, which definitely leaves less resources for the remaining duties. When a regional picture is looked at, we do not have to make a partnership with much stronger economic states, we can see that, in economic terms, already at the proposed law on the ministries of the future government, at least four to five government members will have more than the most numerous governments from neighbouring countries, such as Macedonia, which will have 23 members of the government. On the other hand, this proposed framework is not in line with the trends in modern Europe, where it is a virtue to have as little and as effective administration as possible. If very ambitious announcements come from the new parliamentary majority on European integration, it would be too much to be proven at the very beginning by creating a rational and modern administration. It seems to me that by adopting this law, it would prove to me that advocating European values is declarative when it comes to officials, and that citizens should be able to bear the tightening of belts, because in order to give money somewhere, you have to take them away. A concrete example of the increase of the apparatus is the introduction of the NIP ministry. Although it is possible to discuss and ask the question of justification for the introduction of a special NIP ministry, because we are witnessing that it has not worked in the best way so far, I think it was possible to find another solution, which would have satisfied the users of NIP funds, and on the other hand would not have increased the administration. Furthermore, the proposal contains many inconsistencies, which can be seen through the fact that spatial planning and construction are attached to the Ministry of Environmental Protection rather than being with the Ministry of Infrastructure. I think it has a lot less to do with logic and expertise, and a lot more to do with party arrangements. As a result, the DSS-NS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to correct this illogicality. We also don't see why the description of the Ministry of Faith's intelligence left out the country's co-operation with the SPC, which was in the current law. We might ask ourselves whether this is the first concrete example of the leftist policy of the new parliamentary majority, but those who have proposed this must know that in the modern democratic world, such practice exists and in this sense, the DSS-NS parliamentary group will have amendments. When it comes to foreign affairs, we also believe that a job description of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs requires the installation of an item that all international contracts must be in the function of preserving the territorial integrity of our country. It is necessary to mention this explicitly, given that this is based on previously adopted parliamentary resolutions based on the Constitution, and we have also witnessed how much controversy there has been in public. The DSS-NS parliamentary group also submitted the amendment, as the elections came due to the lack of a single policy on the preservation of KIM within Serbia, i.e. because there was no more trust among coalition partners on the issue. Since this bill is based on the amendment and addition of the Government Act, which, as we had the opportunity to hear yesterday, is problematic not only from the view of constitutionality, but also foresees a kind of dualism in government management, it is clear that, even if this proposal of the Ministry Act is rational, and it is not, it would not be possible for the future government to work effectively, because either you have the first man to run the government or you have a confusing situation in which, at the same time, with the Prime Minister's work the government is being managed and directed by one of its so-called so-called governments. Deputy, as provided for in the amendments to the Government Act. Also, how do you expect every cabinet's work to be equally evaluated and appreciated when there is a paradox that the future Prime Minister will have a higher voice weight. This is not based on political tradition or in the practice of our country. We can conclude that this proposed setting speaks of the fact that the future government will be aware of too few programming goals and many compromises and party settlements. Also, taking into account many personal ambitions, it will make it impossible for such a government to be quality, for the benefit of citizens and states, it will already cost taxpayers a lot. Finally, although it has been announced that the future government is socially responsible, it seems that the very formulation of the solutions to these legal proposals is being denied and therefore we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u402	The People's MP Milan Veselinović has the word, and let the National MP Slobodan Maras be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, like this group that makes up the current majority in this high home, in the National Assembly, made up of hill-snare, in haste, so you did and concluded these two draft laws, I mean amendments and additions to the Government Act and amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, because you see that there is a dispute between the committees themselves in charge of this area. I've been with my father collecting some haystacks ever since the day Krkobic called in that joke from the session. Says the father - where are you going, son? said, I go to Belgrade, Krkobic convenes a session of the National Assembly. Why isn't he retired? He's retired, he's representing you. She's representing us? Is he representing me with 6,500 dinars of pension? Let me remind you that between 6,500 and 10,000 of those in Serbia, there are more than half of Serbia's citizens. Our people say, "It is not where God has given you; but it is how he put you together." Put together something that's incompatible. What my colleague Krasic said - which can't be super glued by that fast glue you're trying to stick to and make some love that's really funny and weird in the state of Serbia. Everybody laughs and says, "That's like love like an elephant and a mouse, funny thing." I believe that this love will not last long and that normally all of you who have made such a majority will account for Serbia's citizens soon. As far as these laws are concerned, as well as the previous Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Government of Serbia, where you are talking about some kind of deputies, first member, first deputy, etc., you are making some kind of reconciliation or approval to individual parties, coalition partners, and mainly to the damages of Serbian citizens. Since 91, I've been a folk MP to this day in Yugoslavia, and then in this second Yugoslavia, and now in Serbia, and every government is modeled, it's made by coalition agreements, but this laxative, or government that you want to make, this is a precedent. Why is he precedentd? Presidential because you have made a fine for the people of Serbia. You have made a fine because the citizens of Serbia are directly threatened by the fact that the taxpayers are paying this farce you're making. Just some comparison I made. For example. China, which is 200 times our size, has 24 ministries, same as Serbia. We go in such a order to Germany, which is many times bigger than us, and there are only 16 ministries. You've built 24 ministries, plus certain organizations that match each other. These 24 ministries, it is evident that specific ministries are being seized from certain responsibilities, and are being assigned to other ministries of that competence, in order to meet the political force or your coalition, and what they say is that they are dragging sieves and sheep into numbers. You want to solve the problem in this way, and you forget what's most important, which is that taxpayers finance all of this and that this is going to cost them dearly. As far as the ministries are concerned, I have a special objection to the Ministry of National Investment Plan. That ministry you came up with a few years ago, but mostly this ministry served you, the yellow company, to run an election campaign. We have radical data, from Saturday to my New Market, how you spent funds in an election campaign, NIP funds or a national investment plan. You know that those funds were controlled by Gilas, and so on the municipal boards he deployed, and even those parties that were in the coalition with you got their cake and shared their money on their hands, somewhere in the packets, they were extending mobile cards, mostly in that way you tried to deceive the citizens of Serbia and normally get a number of votes you have, but I'm sure they'll melt quickly. This ministry of the national investment plan is a ministry to be abolished because it represents a pandan for the Serbian government. It represents the pandan and that prime minister, the golden voice you have, because it will directly affect all ministries that the funds will be allocated. Normally, we have objections to many of the ministries that have been made, as you Europeans say, by a European example, that is to say, by wanting to get in touch with your mentors. Well, here, for example. The foreign ministry covers its work, but you have forgotten that a clause should be found in the ministry to include all Serbian citizens, especially in the Hague casamat. You forgot about those citizens in the Hague play today, you forgot about Serbian heroes, you forgot about Serbian heroes, including our professor, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. To this Serbian hero, who today defends all of us there in the Hague case, you are trying in every way possible to disable his defense to prove that Serbs are innocent and that Serbs are simply suppressed by the Mondian and the great forces. We have the same objection against the Ministry of the Interior. Among other things, the Home Office's affairs are described and there are great dilemmas about their obligations and the way he handles his affairs, and above all overlaps with the internal affairs of the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of the Interior, where today, you've certainly read in newspapers, there are lawsuits and charges across Serbia at the expense of the Ministry of Interior, because they haven't cleared up what is the starting weapon, what is a gas weapon, and what are the means to obtain carrying and holding firearms. This is not at all covered here, and this is important for the citizens of Serbia, i.e. to be represented equally by the Ministry of the Interior. We have a lot of objections here and we Serbian radicals have made a series of amendments that show that we're trying to point to your mistakes, to point to what you're going through. Simply, to relieve the citizens of Serbia, to free them from this bureaucratic apparatus that will be formed within a few days, and thus to improve the work of this parliament in general and to make it easier for the citizens of Serbia themselves. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u404	Thank you. The word is Mr. Slobodan Maras, and let the MP of the people, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u405	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would not be much longer since much has been said about why so many ministries. I would just quickly read something that I think our public would have to know -- how many developed countries have ministries. So in Austria we have 14 ministries, in Denmark 20, in Germany 15, Finland 12, in the Netherlands and France 17, Greece 17 etc. That's what it Our government will be truly the most colossal. I'd just look back at two ministries here. One ministry he has a big problem with is the Ministry of National Investment Plan. I need to ask you some questions. I can't wait for Mr. Cvetkovic to come as a future prime minister, and so far, the finance minister who explained the 2008 budget to us here. I'm interested in how the funds, or how will the Ministry of National Investment Plan, operate, since the work has been done by the office so far, along with some ministries? Will the funds and powers found in certain ministries, above all I think of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and will these vast billions, up to 6 and a half billion remain in these NIP ministries, or will these ministries continue to determine who will and will spend these NIP funds? The other thing I'm very interested in is why did the Ministry of Environment come together with spatial planning? I don't want to get into how incompatible that is. I think one thing is very important, which is that the Ministry of Environment must have an extremely important place in the functioning of the new government. That's what I'd like to remind you of because you're planning to ratify an agreement with Russia, or an oil-gas agreement that NIS and GASPROM signed. How harmful this agreement is for the citizens, or how financially invaluable it is -- we've talked a lot about it, and we'll talk about it when that ratification comes. However, I must remind you that there is no single word in this agreement about protecting the environment, which you are about to ratify. What does it matter? Because the Ural Oil we're going to get from Russian partners is oil with the highest rate of sulphur. So, during its processing, which we will naturally perform in Serbia, there is a terrible pollution of the environment. Given that nothing is envisaged in this agreement, I fear that all the burden will fall on the Republic of Serbia and that considerable resources and great resources and great experts will be needed to remove all the harmful facts that will take place during the processing of that oil. That's why I think it's terribly important that this ministry be separated and not be together with spatial planning, given full capacity, as you like to say, so we proposed that amendment. I hope you adopt him. Since our parliamentary group has little time left, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u406	Thank you. He has the word Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, and please prepare Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u407	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will begin my presentation from what the ruling coalition has cited as a reason to pass this law. It says like this: "So far, the current ministry law... ", so states the number "The Official Messenger " 43/07 "... He is no longer able to provide a system of government authorities, according to needs... ", underlining "the needs of the Republic of Serbia". To hold on to this word of "need." I am not sure that this applies to the Republic of Serbia, to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I am absolutely certain that this applies primarily to a large number of party personnel that should be housed somewhere, and above all, in the way that the ruling coalition is made, which is one compromise that is absolutely not healthy, I can freely say one rotten compromise, and anything further I am instructed will be in favour of exactly what I have stated. So when I talk about how big this government is, which all my predecessors really talked about, I have to say that there are not only 24 ministries here. It's actually a matter of the number of government members, and they're 27. Almost all of them have listed how many members of the government are in the environment, how many governments in Europe have, and I don't think I really need to deal with that number too much, because I don't think there's any citizen of Serbia who's not familiar with that number that our neighbours have. I can say that we're here somewhere next to the Chinese, so the biggest government. When I talk about the size of a government, I have to ask the question automatically: if the government is so big, if the costs are that the government could work very largely, then how can we talk about the election promise of all coalition members - that the government will run a socially responsible policy? To yourself or to the citizens of Serbia? Another question that obviously bothers us more, since I noticed that several speakers today have asked that as a question - who was the prime minister of this government? Simply, the media is speculating the number of ministries, and then regrouping, or what the ministry will call, which areas the ministry has been going to, has been appearing for two weeks. The names of ministers and officials in the ministries are known, and the government's mandate is the only one unknown. It's also an interesting question of the concept of government. How little I understand about democracy -- it's simply a prime minister who makes the concept of government and members of government. At this point, the mandate officer was the one whose last name we found out, if at all he was the mandater until the end, until he laid out his concept. I have to ask, is it democratic that we don't know the name of the prime minister until the last minute? After all, in the course of its election campaign, all parties are instructed who will be the prime minister on their behalf, if they win power, only this coalition for vassal Serbia had no name left? So my question is who made the government, who made the concept of government? Now I can offer opportunities. Was it done by the president of Serbia, which, of course, is not his job as president of Serbia, which has no possibility of doing so? Is it democracy, too, that the president of Serbia, in a system that is not presidential, which is increasingly, with these elements that we received yesterday and today looks like the president -- one weak prime minister, given less authority, is given the golden voice, though, but more like ensuring that there is no fallout in the coalition? Because the Democrats know very well how they voted Vojislav Kostunica in the past government, so that in time they would give a golden voice, so that that golden voice would somehow contribute to them maintaining that illusion - that they were leading the coalition. Is Boris Tadic, who otherwise says he is very rationally leading politics, that he is leading a clear policy towards Europe - and here we do not have a ministry that would help us lead Serbia into the European Union - so can Boris Tadic absolutely in this country, therefore, be the president of the state that makes the concept of government, the real government, run the government, smiles on us from television? So he's the only one who clearly sees the way Serbia should go. This European path is the heritage of those coalitions alone. No one else has the right to say and mention how this European road can offer, what it should look like. It's simple, and that's the question is that democracy too? In the way he imagines it, he certainly is, but in a way that developed democracy and Serbia, which was a very democratic country and was, certainly does not imagine such democracy. However, I'm just afraid that Domanovic, who has visited Serbia several times already, will not be active this time, so that we do not discover that we were not awake enough, or that our leader was short-sighted. Now about the concept of government. However, from what I've read, I can conclude that this coalition has concluded that the previous government has done an extremely good job, because in the most part it has rewritten the previous law. The part that's added to it concerns the size and number of new ministries, but it's another interesting thing -- where we put our personnel. So we're adding where our people are supposed to be put. An interesting number of ministries are according to the competences and jobs prescribed by this concept, but I would keep myself at one ministry that I considered extremely important in the past term and in all the mandates of each government of each country, I think is extremely important, which is the Ministry of Ecology. We've just created a base, we've just made into the previous two governments what we want and how we want to develop environmentals in this country, how we're going to protect our environment, we've just created administrations that will be able to monitor individual segments, it's just beginning to work, but now we have a new concept, it's being inserted into the environment and spatial planning. I can say it's a very good combination in some countries, but in some countries where there's no building, there's a monitoring of resources and everything else. So here the building is a pure surplus, it naturally belongs to another ministry -- infrastructure. Why isn't he there? Because whoever wins, and that's the one who's "before the deadline", can happen to have a lot of powers. That's why we're gonna put her back in this vault that doesn't naturally belong to. That's why everything that's been done in the four years of the previous two governments, that shift in environmentalism, seems to be getting back to square one because it doesn't feel right. So, what's my basic objection -- why will the Department of Forests again at the Ministry of Agriculture, why now will the Veterinary Authority move back into another ministry? It's just that the parts are alive, they're just starting to feel like one body, we're just starting to get all the information we need, now we're going back to the wide woods, so whoever's getting by -- the strength, who's not getting by, who's not showing the way. Why is the Ministry of Faith left out a provision that is probably extremely important for this country, which is the Serbian Orthodox Church? She's nowhere to be found. If you've read it carefully, it doesn't exist. Why is the SPC problem in Serbia? I know in some other countries next door it's a big problem, I don't know if it's us, but we'll see if it's just gonna be a big problem. I have already mentioned, and it seems to me that some other speakers have mentioned, along with this number of ministries, along with this number of vice-presidents, I suppose some of them will get the opportunity to deal with the EU route, there is no special ministry here to deal with. The DSS and NS have submitted several amendments and we believe that if we adopt these amendments, we will make a significant contribution to improving this text, but until all of this happens, or if we adopt the amendments, we will see, and if this can be fixed, we will see. Just one more sentence that has nothing to do with this, but today, looking for complete material, I also found on the internet, and as far as a woman is concerned, a politician from a small party, who commented that the biggest benefit of the party was that Vojislav Kostunica retired. To tell them, to be informed, they didn't send him away. Vojislav Kostunica is not and will not be retired, nor is that small party's power. Its power extends only to sit in a spare bench and wait for another player to fall off the bench for them to enter.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u408	The word is Mr. Nikola Savic, and I ask Mrs. Vesna Pesic to prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here comes the Government Act today and the Ministry Act. It is perfectly normal for these two laws to be considered after the elections -- government and ministries, but it is not normal to end the electoral will of citizens after the elections. Also, it is not normal for a country that has eight million inhabitants to have two dozen ministries. But anything is possible in the country of Serbia. Simply, when you look at the Ministry Act and you look at the reasons that apply to the ministries, there is nowhere to be read or found that we really need 24 ministries. However, we had the opportunity yesterday to hear the president of one party, which makes the ruling majority, that Serbia has so many problems that 40 ministries are few. I don't know, maybe the man's right. The interpretation of the law applies only to two ministries and to the ministry of human and minority rights and the ministry of environmental protection. In light of the existence of the ministry of human and minority rights, Serbia is said to be a highly multinational and multi-confessional country. That's why there's supposed to be a ministry like this. Serbia is indeed a multinational and multi-confesional country, but we are by this no specific instrument in either our region or the world. Simply, today all countries are more or less multinational and more confiscational, because the world is becoming a global village and it is nothing new. I wanted to say something else. Unfortunately, once again, the elections have proved to be just a front to which party powers will try to quench their thirst for the rule of human destiny, human lives and, above all, the property of our citizens. Serbian citizens did not want the "yellow" and "red" associations to manage their fates, but what you will do is that. It's democracy, in democracy, it's an important gathering. I can add up both the grandmothers and frogs, it's important to get to most of them. Here, we somehow got to the majority, where the actors are ashamed of each other, but it's important every vote. In the vote, only the hand was raised, and the look and the head could be shot down. And when do they have a gold card? ) The golden card is something else special. Furthermore, after less than 20 years, a circle has been closed that has been wandering the political scene in Serbia, and now everyone is on their own. The ideological brothers found themselves again, shook each other's hands, settled down, kissed each other, healed themselves, and decided to start all over again. Even so, it is human and forgiving, especially to the brothers. The problem is only that the citizens of Serbia are a little confused, I can't believe their own eyes when they watch the divided brothers of the heart calm down, but I say, it's human to forgive brothers. After these elections, and we hope there will be more choices, citizens will have a chance to think. After the election, no regrets. After these elections, only those who have made the majority are asked, although I hope that most of them will not last as long as they have projected that they will last, because citizens have found that they have been deceived. That is why it would be best if this government, whose position we expect in this House, was never even formed, had it be torn apart before future ministers and learned where Nemanja Street is located.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u410	The word has been sent by the people, Mrs Vesna Pesic, please prepare Mr Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u411	I'll just say a few findings, as far as I can tell in two minutes. The first thing I'd say is, what body makes a decision at all about how many ministries we need. Is there a formal state body or who decided about it? If you can give me that answer. Who made the decision on these ministries? I wish we knew who was responsible. Is that some informal group that sits there and says, "Here you are, here's me." My impression is, since I don't have time to say in an analysis to show what this is about, it's like a group of people who just took and shared some jobs and money and parts -- here's to you, here's to you, here's to me, where you see in fact that there's a specialization in buying votes and buying practically government. What we just heard and heard, it's a technology designed to, say, create a ministry called a single project, ad hoc in 2006, to buy votes, it was a NIP famous, which was thrown into the air like this, and now a ministry is made of it, to share discretionary money. You know what, I'd ban any ministry and government from sharing any discretionary money. If we can remember from this meeting that. Can we reach that level so the government can't share any money? This is quite clear that there is no concept, there are no promises made to the citizens. Please, if this coalition, did this party sitting here on the left promise that it was primarily about voting for Europe and signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Please, if there's one single word on how that agreement is being made that's been signed. There's not a single word. You may have said it, but it's not in this proposal. That's why I'm asking, you're the Committee of the Assembly, and I'm asking you, what is the authority responsible for this decision on these ministries? Not to say that these are all divisional ministries, from the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, from the Ministry of Infrastructure, from some of the nebulous youth and sports ministries. Please, what kind of ministries are these? What's the young man doing with the ministry? Please, what's the information society? Has anyone come out to explain what information society is? We used to have the Department of Traffic and Communications. Now it's some telecommunications, information society, infrastructure. What do these ministries have to do with this NIP, that one project, you're building a government fund, gets one man to share money from that fund as it comes to mind. It's an absolute disaster. The only conclusion here is that there is indeed a very observant, exploitative political class, which has seized both actions, and money shares it with each other according to its own personal interests, and the advance purchase of power for that same political class. Whoever does not have the main technology to buy elections and buy power, who does not have Mladjan Dinkic to organise and buy elections as a hydra, can count on never winning the election at all. So that's the main story when you look around. I'm asking you to answer me, who came up with this. Who's the brains of this? Do you know any names? We didn't even pick this minister. Are those the ministers who'll get the ministries? Is there a coalition sitting somewhere and who was sitting there talking about this, can we capture any control over any body that this has endured here? It has absolutely nothing to do with the environment with spatial planning, it has nothing to do with this leaving the Ministry of Infrastructure, it has nothing to do with this information society that nobody lives knows what it means. This just shows that in the next period, we are entering a completely distraught government. This dissipated government has brought an unencumbered political class, which has indeed decided to prevent Serbia from entering the EU, because it has so many interests that the EU will be free of anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u412	Mrs. Pesic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u413	There are no standards, nor criteria that show that here we have anything to do with any government that will lead Serbia into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u414	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, and may Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic prepare himself who will probably, after the break, depend on the length of your exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u415	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning, let me say that the DSS-NS coalition will not vote to amend the Ministry Act and the Government Act, so it will be against it. In the next few minutes, I'll try to explain why we won't vote for the laws. The laws are passed in order to regulate certain relations in one or more areas of society. Laws are passed to regulate the will of an individual. Then when an individual's will is above the law, then society is in one serious problem. So yesterday's example and discussion of the government law clearly shows and proves it. What does it mean to amend the Government Act, and I'd call it the Golden Voice Act, it's about the will of an individual. The same example today is of the Ministry Act. Apart from increasing the number of ministries and multiplying the administration, and we have heard pre-election promises from the ruling coalition that the government will be socially responsible, we see no reason for this increase. So, what's this about? Today, a very interesting piece of information came out in the local press. The president of a political party, members of the ruling coalition, said that Serbia needs as many as 40 ministries. It's a very interesting finding. If so, then Serbia is in serious trouble. I think it's a story to accommodate certain personnel of certain political parties, so it seems to me that given the statement made by that party's president, it might be good to introduce the Ministry of Music, with certain departments, that one department is engaged in serious music, another new company, and another maybe different genres. So very interesting. A government like this doesn't have the capacity to run the country. Article 123. The constitution is clearly determined that the government determines both foreign and domestic policy, to create that policy. It seems to me that such a concept has moved such an item into some other institutions. An open question for the leading coalition - is the centre of power located on Andric's crown, or is it located in the Kronska, or perhaps in the Student Square? These are issues for the ruling coalition. Given the golden voice, and all these events, and all the things that happen as a setup of this government. Certainly, in a later debate on amendments, certain concepts and on the description of the affairs of certain ministries, we as a coalition will have serious objections. One of those, I'll point out, refers to the Ministry of Health. In addition to what you've copied from that concept, at this point you can't see clearly what's going on with the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Does the health minister still have the exclusive right to have the largest cash register in the country, amounting to over one billion and three hundred million euros? In earlier reports of the ministry, we, as a member of the ruling coalition, had serious objections at the time. What is a health policy? Why is there no national council that creates this kind of policy, to which reports on the spending of this money will be submitted? Why there's one declarative story about the primary level of health care, and when you look at the money transfer, you see one completely different story. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning is incompatible. This country has serious environmental problems. That way these problems won't be solved. In the debate in particular, we will make our arguments, which is why we think this concept of government and ministries is unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u416	Thank you. I ask Mr. Alexander Martinovic to take his word, so Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic can prepare herself, but it will be after the break. And you're after your break? I agree. Break till 4:00. At 4:00 p.m., we'll continue our work. [[After break – 16.05]] Dear fellow MPs, we continue our work after the break. Let me introduce you to the resignation of the MP you received. It is the resignation of Predrag Umičević as a MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case under Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(2) and Article 3 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the election of MPs of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time on which MP Predrag Umic was elected, elected from the Election List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. I now give my word to the MP, Ms. Natashi Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u418	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, this law is something that was realistic to be expected in the political agreement of these two options, until yesterday's uncompromising Democratic Party, which has its own chains, which is Cankova's political party, the Serbian Renewal Movement, and above all the most megalomanic G17. However, someone today asked a question that seemed logical, and in fact it doesn't make sense, he says - who is the one who projects what the number of ministries will be. The lady still wondered - so where does someone sit and think about what the government of the Republic of Serbia should look like and how many ministries there should be. It's not projected anywhere in particular, it's all happening in a way that would say walking. This time we learned that it was happening from a bar to a bar and that one of these main intermediaries was Oliver Dulic, who did not settle down in the house but every day and had breakfast, and had lunch and dinner at the pubs, and agreed what it should look like, and in the end there seemed to be none of this number of ministries, even though he was trying to be this key link. Since we explained to the Serbian citizens yesterday what an exclusive role it is for the deputy prime minister's golden voice, and people know what the structure of Mirko Cvetkovic's personality is, and we will see what he will be prepared for and how he will present his exposés. In this time of the SRS parliamentary group, I would refer to some descriptive details of certain ministries because there is simply no time for all. A colleague, Vlatko Ratkovic of the DS, who was authorised on behalf of the promoter, taxed from one ministry to another what is new, what is being abolished from both its functions and what is being advocated by DS and G17, I could not expect anything else. Because, megalomania, it is your most important feature, greed in every way, concern for the people and the torments that torment the citizens of Serbia, and this altitude air from that height, not from the one at which it skis, but from the height of the government, from which Mladjan Dinkic has been watching us for so many years, since it has the most important levers of power in its hands, the money above all, the bars it has. This ministry, which has united the former several ministries and has made it possible for us to have the situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, only if Mladjan Dinkic arrives to deal with some important segments of our economy, says that the government will not only be irrational and irresponsible to citizens, but some really important segments in our society will not be able to function. During the debate on amendments, I will put a special accent on the absence of so much time by the Ministry of Tourism. It was the most logical thing for everyone, including people who deal with another profession, to connect always the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, with us having a special Ministry of Tourism in one period in the 1990s. Today someone wondered why it was necessary for the Ministry of Youth and Sports to exist. Yes, that is necessary, because we are a country that should first and foremost see its future in the Serbian youth, but a national-aware youth, which will take care of every inch of our country. I am proud of all our athletes, both those in team and individual competitions, but above all those from small children to the oldest who come to sports events to cheer up above all our basketball and football clubs, who scandal against the Hague casamat, who scandal -- Kosovo is the heart of Serbia, and who, with such awareness, by encouraging our athletes, are thinking about our future. It is a guarantee, and what the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, is doing in the Hague case, and more and more Serbian youth, besides the people of the Middle Ages and our oldest, follows and indeed gets the incentive to fight in such a way for Serbia, it is a guarantee for me, and for the Serbian Radical Party, that in the foreseeable period we will be fully aware of the defence of both our businesses and our culture and our traditions, history. And then, first of all, I would resent the motionor for deliberately or by mistake dropping one very important thing. It's useful for you to hear that from colleagues of the Kolundji, because that's where the danger lies when it comes to the Ministry of Faith. It is said that the state will cooperate with churches and religious communities, but which, ladies and gentlemen, MPs? We have the Law on Churches and Religious Communities and we have fought here until half past five in the morning for the fact that, as with the Law on Fundamental Education, the word of the traditional church and the religious community stands explicitly. Because besides this, not conspiracy theory, but the intentions of the United States and the Western forces, seen through their way and blackmailing them to tailor the government of the Republic of Serbia to their extent, we have indeed in due course the dangers for our youngest, besides drug abuse, that one of the other great monsters, which are sects and various dangers that lurk, poison the Serbian youth and other children who are not Serbian nationalities. We don't want to, and we want to fight it hard. As for that old floscula that stands in textbooks -- Serbia is a country of the agricultural industry, many of us who are aware that agriculture has been systematically destroyed by the Dosovo authorities for eight years and we know that since industrial development and progress there is nothing, that these are only empty promises, we can cross that characteristic of Serbia. However, in Serbia, very good births and wheat, and corn, and our fruits, and plums and raspberries, which this year had a good price, however, as never before, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, although this was described in the Ministry of Agriculture in the minister's work, farmers will not feel better. For what? The magistrate, Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, also mentioned this today. This depraved, such a feudal system is actually a large and suitable ground for manipulation and corruption in every sense. You are colleagues Tabakovic mentioned one name, which is the lady who, besides Dinkic, is the one who has been cheering and dressing since she was in the ministry, but is always Dinkic's right-hand man. The lady can sign and seal every single unit of local self-government that is over-indebted and that no longer has the absolute possibility for 0.5 dinars to be in charge, sign and stamp the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Yeah, she can, so she guarantees, why? Come in, please, the unit of local self-government and businesses that have fallen, and farmers and citizens, go ahead, enter these foreign banks, which Dinkic, with his criminal lobby, has brought into Serbia to operate on extremely favourable conditions, and in return to sell extremely expensive money to citizens, i.e. the euro, and thus destroys the Serbian peasant, and then every citizen. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, today is July 1st, the main news in all newspapers and in all electronic media is the warning of the governor and the National Bank of Serbia about the overindebtedness and new conditions in people, i.e. citizens who use this allowed minus on the current account and credit card. What do we have today as a product of your DOS government? That plastic money, because people were forced to take cash loans, to have their salvation credit cards every day, that they could pay high tuition, that farmers could survive, because that's not what they do in this kind of heat, this kind of sun, and in such conditions when the state doesn't care about them, it's not enough for a simple reproduction. We went out here for the second time with one very important initiative. Of course, at this point, since you have created this coalition that will not, first of all, be stable for a long time and will not have that social component, be sure, because I know there are extremely many honest people in the SPS, people who are truly, believing in a model of social justice that a country, such as Serbia, should advocate and implement, have entered into this whole story, which has now come down to the fact that the main leader and dictator of the future government and everything that happens in Serbia is Boris Tadic. You know, when the first September days come and, as usual, these social tensions after a long summer are growing and growing, then the Megalomanian government and the megalomantic ministers will have to wonder where they've spent so much money insanely and why such knowledge as the Ministry of Finance, and why does Dinkic need that kind of power? You know, if someone's always grabs, grabs, and in an institutional sense wants to have so much money and so many people, which they're going to keep around just because they're giving him such important functions in the state, they want to rule, then it's really a question for people of some other profession that I don't infiltrate Mrs. President of the Assembly, because I've known her for a long time, and I know that she can look at it from another aspect, but there's really something wrong. They will wonder citizens and you will see, they will be surprised and people from the medical profession will be baptized, like our respected doctors, if it is possible for one man, for the fourth or fifth time in a row to be proposed to the Minister of Health, and the health care is in a catastrophic state, and ask only the seen people, and ask the experts, what with the Military Academy, which from the Kragujevac Clinical Center, from Belgrade, for which money they work and how they look at the so arrogant behaviour of a minister. I see you have abolished the Agency for Local Self-Government, or for projects in local self-government, as a special organisation, and you have left this today, also from Mrs Tabakovic mentioned, the Export Promotion Agency. The Export Promotion Agency, which boasted in almost one economic bulletin to help one coffee producer, someone who deals with some cardboard equipment, etc., has 90 million dinars in the 2008 budget alone. Is that money, did one million come to a regional centre in Serbia, because they have their own facilities everywhere, it's not just an office in Belgrade, but they have an agency that has its own representative in the administrative districts and that by nature things should go and say, "huh, in this Valuary area, in the whole of Kolubara, in the Moravian region, in my Shumadija, we need to boost the export of fresh fruit. In southern Serbia, exports of vegetables should be encouraged, and throughout the campaign we have visited almost every major village in Serbia, and not every municipality and city, we have seen people who are hardworking, valuable producers, which vegetables and fruits and they say - our biggest problem is, why not, we wonder and ask them, this much work, this many properties, complexes, says - we can't live because the state doesn't care about us. He says, by the time I get to the first freezer, it's easier for me to give to the one who comes and buys me everything because the state doesn't care and doesn't guarantee the purchase of our healthiest products. We as a state, for example, only by investing one billion in food production can we return it twice by 2010. Indeed today is the most profitable production of healthy food worldwide, but the paradox is such that Serbia has the most hungry children and hungry people. And food has been expensive since last year, take whatever period you want since last year, since 2005, it doesn't matter, it's costing hundreds of percent. In such a Serbia, unfortunately we will continue to live, and you colleagues, above all from the SPS, who obviously wanted under pressure and those people who asked you to do so through programming promises, sought to fight to ensure social justice. In a government like this, not only of megalomania, but in which there will be no improvement for educators, no health workers, no farmers, no children, no pensioners, no unemployed, no sure thing, because none of these ideas, no ideas of prosperity and development, where there is no kidnapping and where there is no possibility that one of these ministers can make good money for himself and his party associates, there is no progress, be sure of that. We're going to fight this, and we're going to really try to use every time and every chance to expose crime and corruption, because under all the trouble I've told you, it's today the biggest cancer of our Serbian society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u419	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and let Arsen Djuric be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u420	God helps, Serbian citizens. Yesterday I said we needed his help more than ever. How could it not be if we are waiting for very difficult days, again smiling at us in July, with a special review on July 4th, which of one part of the ruling coalition is perceived as the day of the fighter, and from the other yellow as the great day of American independence. After a sufficient amount of political roostering, as it is, they have concluded a political premarital agreement, they will likely give yellow to the reds to mark the day of the fighter, and they will make sure that they give Cameron Manter a real gift, the new government of Serbia, epochal. One will cry again, and one will remember suffering, and the other will celebrate with balloons and a world festival. What doesn't happen when they've created a government that, by the number of ministries, immediately knocks down European records? Are we going to Europe or not in quantities? However, this 27-member standoff, with accompanying elements in the form of advisers, informants, secretaries, for example, marketing magog, will cost a yearly three hundred million euros. But when was the Count a tit? When Tadic builds a government in which he is the prime minister in shadow and from the people's couples, he doesn't ask how much he costs. Give it to all of my people and all the money, and I'll make out at socialist internationals and sing - who was nothing. Retirement growth, huh, ha, ha. As the future government is bulky, slow and prone to corruption, it will increase public spending and will not again be for pensions, let alone for their increase. However, there is always the possibility of printing money or borrowing, and the government functions as a crisis generator. They saw these crisis groups doing so that the first-made problem was to justify their existence and reportedly offer a solution. Yesterday, I heard from some pensioners the trick question, what is PUPS, and then the answer, the path to Serbia's collapse. That's what disappointed voters say. Even those who are irreparable optimists, ready to experience a new government with a triumph of hope over the experience of "yellows" cannot find any common denominator for this many diverse political concepts. Maybe the key is actually in the store. It's an alpha and omega and the cornerstone of the new government. It's not just one trade department. The trade is in each, and it would be useful, clarity for the sake of adding the title of each ministry an epithet - trade. Commercial justice, trade welfare, commercial administration, trade culture. The only sad thing is that the Ministry of Kosovo, which has not been abolished just to preserve the illusion of patriotism, will become commercial, the moment it is undermined by yellow. The only possible solution was to be taken by someone from G17 whose head, Jr. Dinkic, coldly said that Kosovo's bid in Serbia is equal to collective madness. Being for Kosovo in Serbia is a sign of pathology, and blasting every government, with an undecided ambition to finally become a Caliph instead of a Caliph, it's as normal. Mr Dinkic also holds the Ministry of Economy as vice-president and it takes at least two hours to read the work of this ministry, so who understands? No wonder a man who, as the governor of the National Bank, had a life dream was found on his wallet, of course, the most valuable one, that he was headed by a real mutant or the ministry of the mundane, as he was baptized last May by Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Speaking of recorders, and at European level, we must in no way miss to mention another member of the encrypted family - expertise in front of politics, Minister of Health Tomica Milosavljevic. Only the fourth time is a minister, and if he continues with this lifetime ministry, he will be able to be transferred directly from the armchair to the government building as a kind of cariatide. However, apart from the protocolal encounters with colleagues who are socially intelligent enough not to object to current and future authority, Mr Milosavljevic knows that it is not healthy to meet satisfied patients who are gardening in institutions organised to look like Polish hospitals from World War I. People's dissatisfaction is being demoted by honest doctors, who act as mobile spit shops for all those who make the disease even more nervous. No wonder there's a new folk diagnosis -- he's recovered despite his therapy. Speaking of an expert team in the government, I would not miss an opportunity to look back at the Ministry of Sports and Youth headed by Mrs. Snezana Markovic-Samardzic, who has been called a ballerina for miles. By reading the work of this ministry that artificially linked the youth and taking care of it to a sport that cannot be limited to professional engagement and that of young people, I have not been able to figure out what our ballerina Mrs. Markovic has to do with the work she has to do. Here's some biographical data from the official Serbian government website. She was born on 10 March 1966, nice, fish; she graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Yugoslav and World Literature; she worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the bilateral sector from 2001 to 2005, whatever that means as deputy director of the Directorate for Neighbouring Countries and as deputy head of mission and adviser at the Embassy of Serbia-Montenegro in Oslo. From 2005 to 2007, she was an assistant defence minister at the Ministry of Defence. It is responsible for strategic planning, international military co-operation, the verification centre and co-chair of the Serbia-NATO defence reform group. He speaks fluently and writes Norwegian and English. Interesting. I just don't know which part of her biography fits more in implementing national policies and youth strategies, whether it's from Norway or from the NATO group. That is probably why she is so disgusted with all Serbian NGOs who express their dissatisfaction with the establishment of a NATO state in Serbia. She received and supported members of the LDP youth, led by something more age-old Serbia's Turajlic in a group called - Europe has no alternative. She has neither received nor helped young intellectuals from the organisation -- the Serbian Parliament, although they held more than 100 tribunes in Belgrade alone without any advertising at a crowded Faculty of Machines. She's not interested in Nomocanon or 1389, who just went on foot on the Vidovdan march. She's not interested in other youth organisations that have Serb omens. Maybe they should reregister in Norwegian. Her athletes were not all at will and she was not in a delegation waiting for the swimmer Cavic. Neither she nor the European Swimming Committee liked the shirt -- Kosovo is Serbia. To be clear, I love ballet and I love everything young people love, but if we care about young people like this, it's no wonder that young people are still running, and national sports are failing. She hated the queen of sports only because Velimir Ilic became president of the Athletic Union. The three said ministers and ministries are quite enough to indicate what kind of government it really is. May God help us all, Tomica, the younger and the snowmen, and above all the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u421	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, and the DSS-Nova Serbia parliamentary group has two minutes left, so I will ask Mr Arsen Djuric to prepare to address himself during the time period.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u422	So far, when a new government is being created after the elections, the SRS has usually had some understanding of the new coalition government and we often knew that it would look like the number of ministries that would be in the ministry. It's a matter of coalition agreement and new authorities, and we didn't get very involved in what the draft law on ministries looked like and once upon a time the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys looked like. However, now, and this is quite a bit after the new Constitution, we feel that we are obliged to interfere and in some way to point out and put our views on the whole idea of what needs to be regulated by one law on ministries. Although Mr. Ratkovic, currently absent, is probably drinking water, since he spent an hour reading the law and making a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, because in the end he didn't read the names of all the signatories of the bill, but he managed to do it in a way that no one understood him and no one understood him. Now, since I'm a little over the years and I have some experience, I know when DS tends to be precise, extensive, to be hiding some big prank. Of course, when it comes to DS hoax is first, and collateral damage is something good. Let's start with whether there's a constitutional basis. You see, page 29, that's where Mr. Ratkovic came in to read the law. They stated that the constitutional basis for what Article 97 proposed is, but it's only one-third. When they further sought what could be the constitutional basis for a law like this, they mentioned Article 107. However, this is where they missed the topic, because Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulates who can be the legislator. Now, the Democrats conclude - if the Constitution allows us to be legislators of the law then that law of course meets all constitutional conditions and, of course, by definition, as soon as it comes from the Democratic Party, it is democratic and must be constitutional. Of course 10:0 is in the Constitutional Court and everything must be constitutional. Then what did they do next? Well, they were wrong not to look at what it says in article 99. They also mistakenly misunderstood what was written in Article 135, and when they came to Article 136, they forgot the material. It's the member who should essentially be the constitutional basis for such a trip in time and space, which is called the new government, the new government, the Solana flock. The ministry law should, in addition to meeting these constitutional criteria, be a regulation that fully regulates what is called a detour, jurisdiction and organisational structure of the state government. Why? So that those who exercise power know as far as the border is in the exercise of power, from the point of view of the affairs they do, that they do not interfere in other people's territory, but also that we know as MPs how to control them and the people to know who's in charge of what question. To avoid improvisation with regard to the organisation of state authorities, several ways of regulation are used. We have states that define the number of ministries precisely by the Constitution, and even the names of the ministries, so they define the frameworks of their competences, leaving the laws to do it more precisely. You've had opportunities from one of my predecessors to hear that in some countries there are 14, 17 etc., but the Constitution prescribed the exact number of ministries. We radicals represented this when we adopted the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We have not passed, so as a result, the appearance of members of 135 and all of these provisions on the Government of the Republic of Serbia as part of the executive government. There are 24 ministries. When this bill is read, 24 special areas should focus related groups of jobs, because it is the state administration. I know there's a professor here who's dealing with this issue, and I know they won't answer to discuss it. Why? Because his profession is very easy to step on to preserve the coalition deal, so he can live. That's why we have ministries, if we now interpret it according to the number of sides or the number of rows, of a dozen rows or a half pages, or one paragraph, as you will, but we also have those omnibus ministries, in which, by definition used for groups of jobs, both grandmothers and frogs, and fire and water, etc., and what is incompatible. We'll have ministries, and based on the experience that we all have to figure out, where one minister is, then we'll have a dozen secretaries of state. Since the issue is the number of ministerial assistants, it can be talked about both platoons and troops, because this is the formation that has been modern for the past 10 years. The systems of jobs and work tasks in all places are defined according to military structure. Of course, every ministry in the future will be pitched with an appropriate amount of money, because money is the only criterion for political power. So we'll have those who would never go through the census themselves to grab a significant cake, so there's everything and everything. We will also have the exclusive right to enjoy the work of two ministers -- one who runs capital investments, and one who thinks about how to spend Karic's money, that's this NIP. That's what the office has been up to now. This has become so abundant now, that it will be a special ministry of money consumption and the distribution of money according to the needs of the Democratic Party's municipal and city committees, to end some necessary investments to smooth the eyes of citizens, so that there may be some fraud, or fear, or who knows what. Of course, I don't want to go into the details of these poorly engaged groups of jobs within some ministry. There is time to talk about it because of a large number of amendments, but I would draw your attention to something that is on page 18, remind Mr Ratkovic, these are jobs common to all ministries -- there are three members. These jobs that are common to all ministries essentially mean -- each ministry in the Republic of Serbia will lead its independent foreign policy. I have to tell you that by the year 2000, it wasn't in this country, and I need to draw your attention that there is no such thing in any country on earth. Why? Because for these jobs there is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which coordinates and only acts abroad, and here every village in the village -- everyone wants to have a connection, both with domestic citizens, where money is taken, and with abroad, where money is to be traveled and spent. Those three members should be expelled from this bill. That's my friendly advice. Because otherwise, this structure of the state government, where the proponent insists, which should be firm, will be like Swiss cheese, so through this you will have funding, beginning with Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko and these great experts who with new jargon, new words, new synonyms, foreign words show their loyalty to Europe, and you yourself know about membership in the European Union that is so far away. I just remind you that you said - you will defend Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia from the European Union, and they tell you - you will never be members of the European Union. That in translation means - you don't care about Kosovo and Metohija today, and tomorrow choose the location you will treat in the same way. I am here, among other things, to stamp this, to warn the citizens in advance - what is being prepared at the head of Solana's flock, headed by Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic -- greater damage than four dry years in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u423	Thank you. The word has Mr. Arsen Đuric, two minutes at your disposal. Some are being prepared by the MP of the people, Dr Gordana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u424	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with the draft law on ministries, which together with the Bill on Government is the result of the political trade that took place in the previous days in the Assembly, outside the Assembly and wherever, and is also a document for fulfilling the wishes and demands of coalition partners, which obviously have great appetites. In addition, informal information circulating here with the Assembly suggests that representatives of the ruling coalition have submitted an amendment proposing the abolition of the ministry of human and minority rights. I have information that the amendment was filed this morning at 9.55, and it is not yet shared with the MPs, so I assume that the negotiations are still ongoing and that they are ongoing. There is a possibility that we will conclude the discussion of the ministry law in principle without knowing how many ministries the future government will count. One of the basic programming principles for the formation of this new coalition was that it would be a socially responsible government, which includes, among other things, the rational spending of budget funds. But before it is formed, we see that it will not be a socially responsible government, because it will be the most expensive and numerous government in all of Europe. According to the law, funds for the implementation of this law will be provided by the Republic of Serbia's budget. As you know, the 2008 budget was adopted. This means that we will have to do budget rebalances to increase budget expenditures due to the increase in the number of members of the future government. In particular, the ministry law has a lot of illogicalness, but what is most striking and unnatural is the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, where the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning performs the tasks of the state administration as well as spatial planning, urbanism, the setting of conditions for building facilities, housing, construction, building land, etc., and these tasks have little to do with protecting and improving the environment. When the Ministry of Infrastructure is exempt from these tasks, which I have listed, which go to the work of the Ministry of Environment, this ministry should not be called the Ministry of Infrastructure, but rather the Ministry of Transport, because it covers only that area. The DSS and NS MPs will certainly not vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u425	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u426	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. A colleague Đuric just pointed out a failure, I suppose, by the assembly services, but what is a fact is that e-mails from NGOs are constantly arriving at the DSS Parliament Club, which show us that the amendment of the foreign coalition for European Serbia has been handed over, that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is abolished, i.e. to join with the Ministry of Justice. I ask the President of the National Assembly why the MPs did not receive the amendment in material, as some colleagues say they had the opportunity to see the amendment. Now we've already been deeply involved in the debate, it's late this afternoon, and if the amendment was handed over 10 hours ago this morning, I think we should have gotten that material, so I'm asking you to do this job and see if it's true or not, so we can give an answer to all the people who are interested in this extremely important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u427	I thank and ask professional services to inform me of this amendment, if it has arrived, that I may respond to my colleague. I give my word to the MP, Dr Gordani Paunovic, and I ask that the MP of the people be prepared, Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u428	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the National Assembly is on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Ministry, with a proposal to, on the basis of Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall bring an emergency procedure. I will quote in 161 for Serbia's citizens. Article 161: "The law can also be carried out exceptionally by emergency procedure. Only laws governing issues and relations can be adopted following an urgent procedure due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws under urgent procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. In writing, the legislator is obliged to state in the written explanation of the draft law the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the failure to pass this law by an urgent procedure. "I am sorry that Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, the representative of the legislator, is not in the O.R., to answer me, as a doctor, as well as the citizens of Serbia, to the question: what are the adverse consequences that would have caused the lives and health of people intolerable consequences, when we know that in the previous government there was, and also by this law on ministries, there is a Ministry of Health which I hope is taking care of the health of people and the consequences of their health. Yesterday we heard and saw that this unprincipled interest group had already shown in the first step that its priority was neither the Constitution nor the law, let alone the citizens of Serbia. No one in this unnatural coalition has answered any questions from the SRS - why is panic-histerior urgency necessary to pass the law? The trade coalition has increased the number of ministries in Article 2 from 22 to 24, to satisfy the appetites and desires of all actors. If you had to satisfy each other's wishes, why didn't you think a little of the citizens of Serbia? You're drilling into your chest defending Serbia and its better future. With such an interesting government, Serbia and the Serbian people are not well written, and we hope that this coalition will soon fall apart. Since you had to form new ministries, why didn't you instead of the NIP ministry, which looks like the 13th pig to me, form, if you meant Serbian citizens, because you kept talking about social policy, the family ministry, which was formed at the time the SRS was in the Serbian government. At that time, the ministry worked and the problems were much smaller, which are now due to lack of family care. Serbia's future is children and a healthy family. If our children are not born, neither will Serbia. Children care about Serbia's future. Serbia does not have a strategy to stop the fall of birth and help families with more children. The family, as the primary social group, represents the basic cell of society. It all comes from family, and good and evil, and morality and immorality, and all that is not good or good. Every day we hear a growing number of juvenile delinquency, crime, murder, drug abuse. Everyone is running away from these problems, but some ministries are only partially and superficially touching them, so it was much more useful to form this ministry, which, once again I underline, when the SRS was headed by this family care ministry, worked well and these problems were much less. It doesn't matter to you. Coalition partners have nothing in common but a desire to rule at all costs and have power. SRS President Vojislav Seselj, in a letter of support for Serbian Radicals and the Serbian people during the pre-election period, ordered from The Hague on 5 April 2008, "Brothers of Serbs and Serbian sisters, Serbia does not have much choice. The Western forces have forced us into a corner and are asking us to give up ourselves, our identity, our national pride, to forget Kosovo and Metohija, to erase Serbia's borders and to allow the destruction of Serbian territory. No one in the world can accept that. "US Ambassador to Belgrade Cameron Manter and Western forces have forced Boris Tadic into a stalemate, so that everything in the Assembly is for a return-to-go, without the elemental respect of the law, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and human dignity. The future government is not the electoral will of Serbian citizens. The unprincipled coalition will not do Serbia's citizens any good, nor has the government's bill been passed, and various opinions of coalition partners and even direct disagreements are heard through the media. The differences between you are already feeling, floating in the air, only they don't explode. Even this panic, as you call it urgency, will not sustain this marriage. They will divorce very quickly, for two different loves, i.e. ideologies, cannot survive for long. In the end, what you are doing on the political scene of Serbia cannot go anywhere, so it will not pass in Serbia either. Therefore, the SRS will not vote either on the draft government law or on the proposal for a law on ministries, because this ministry law is poor, bulky, inaccessible and absolutely socially irresponsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u429	The Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Boah, shall be prepared. The SRS has 29 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before us a bill on ministries was written as ordered by a serious coalition negotiating team, to the joy of individual foreign ambassadors, to the joy of Solana, the tycoon, those who have imagined that by creating such a ruling coalition, here, they will save the EU from destruction, to the joy of all possible internationals, NGOs, etc. Of course, Serbia wouldn't be what it is if it wasn't the first thing in Europe again, if not in the world, and that's the number of ministries. There are currently 24, plus the vice president, plus the Prime Minister, with all the gold votes, which means 28 plus one. So, the appetites of the coalition, some call it a traffic light, and some call it, as we've heard lately, Comrade Tito we swear to you, are such that the great leader across the street had to chop it up, to rip it off, to make a new ministry, to satisfy his ideological coalition partners in the fight for European Solana Serbia. There, one ministry could also be called the ministry for the creation of new ministries. Where is Serbia today? The record deficit, crime on the rise, safety at zero, bombs hang on people's doors, actors of major corruption affairs, a few million dollars each, they get old cases. I don't just know how Tadic's tampering and cutting of the infrastructure ministry will be affected by the newly-proclaimed coalition partner DS, to whom this ministry should belong. He was robbed by a great leader from across the street, which our people would say - to the bone. The future minister of infrastructure will deal only with costumes. No more telecommunications, no more information society, no more spatial planning, no more construction land, etc. Honestly, I don't think it will be any stumbling block among partners in the future government, because it seems to me that it was originally said that the priority was to join the EU, to accept the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, co-operation with The Hague, etc., though, Kosovo was only later mentioned. I don't suppose anyone's going to say -- no, I don't care about the EU, you've robbed the ministry, so we're not going to form a government either. Reading in the Bill of Law what it says in 12 lines, in Article 11, you were able to rename the Ministry of Infrastructure as the Ministry of Transport. Does that sound better to anyone like this, I don't know, but in this short text, even in 12 rows, the word traffic is mentioned ten times. Now we have a quite opposite case, contrary to colleagues from the Socialist International, the great leader from across the street should not have let Junior rob a single letter from the long record of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's competencies. Mladjan Dinkic put everything under his jurisdiction. What our people say, on all three sides of the description of the jurisdiction of Mladjan Dinkic has everything from needle to locomotive. A man knows everything about spas, ski resorts, and here, he grabbed the entire resort of tourism for himself. Page 8. First paragraph. The man knows all about pensions, welfare, half of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's portfolio he grabbed for himself, page 8, paragraph 2. It doesn't matter, it does - it can be done. Dear People's MPs, you citizens who follow this session, do you know whose jurisdiction the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals is in? Mladjan Dinkic again. Where money, exchanges, international agreements with foreign banks, where loans and precious metals are, there is Mladjan Dinkic. I wonder why they wouldn't let him control the bookies and casinos. If we now compare the Ministry of Economy and Development of Mladjan Dinkic and the robbed Ministry of Infrastructure, it will be like that fairy tale Kraljić and the beggar. I'm going to name only one banal example, as far as the Department of Defense is concerned, and in fact it should be called the Ministry of surrender, given who led it, due to time. This best depicts the degree to which DS ministers, after training in the Pentagon and Garmis Partenkirhen, brought Serbia's Army. Do you know, respected MPs and citizens of Serbia, that Serbia has a total of, with letters and numbers, a total of 248 artillery tools. You probably don't find that strange, but you'll find it odd when I tell you that Albania has a total of 1,497 artillery tools. A review of the country's armed forces in our environment has published a list of reputations on two sides, so no one has denied it, so it's very likely. Serbian citizens remain hoping that the government, which will soon be formed, will not last long and that the SRS will finally take the obligation to make the citizens of Serbia and Serbia better.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u431	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member it is so I can get ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u432	My last name is Vojić-Markovic, it's a little complicated, though. I must ask Mrs. President to give us an answer to that question asked by my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Petkovic. The MP must be informed of all matters concerning the amendments and materials we need for the session. Just before the meeting began, we received different information concerning the amendment submitted by the future ruling coalition for European Serbia, which concerns the abolition of the ministry of human and minority rights. One such specimen we saw with our own eyes. It's not shared with the MPs. Interestingly, NGOs are informed of what is happening in the congregation. I have an e-mail sent by the Center for Democracy to various parliamentary groups. I would simply like all MPs, as well as the public of Serbia, to have that information. I'm looking for a simple answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u433	The amendment, and not only that one, has arrived several amendments, seven, eight of them are multiplying, or will arrive while we're working today, or will be at your MPs' clubs. So, technically, it's multiplying as much time as it takes to do multiplication, so much time we're going to have to put up with. I thank and ask Mr. Milorad Buh to take the floor, and Mrs. Verice Radeth to prepare herself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today, we are discussing two important and fundamental laws, namely the bill on amendments and amendments to the laws on government and ministries, which basically have a lot of political volunteering. Political volunteering is seen in both law and law, and it is a condition for the formation of the congregation's majority and future government. The concept of both laws is heading towards meeting all leaders and leaders in all political parties that will form a future government. That is how the government law is also agreed, and we see the ministry law, because it covers everything that satisfied the leaders and later other members of political parties. The main objection from the SRS is that the number of ministries in the future government is too big, 24 plus the president plus three vice presidents, 28, which is, according to the data we have, the largest number of governments in Europe. What's the reason for all this? The reason is the need for political parties to meet the needs of their memberships and to include in the future government all that is of interest to the party. My personal objection concerns the absence of the refugee ministry and internally displaced persons. The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija deals with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but nobody cares about internally displaced persons, no one cares about refugees, and the best example is when reading the Bill on Ministries, then only in the abundance of jurisdiction, the rights and duties of the ministries, in one place at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we come up with a very short sentence concerning the achievement of the rights and integration of refugees and internally displaced persons, and nothing more. I insist and seek, as an MP, on behalf of the Government of Republika Srpska, many refugees and internally displaced persons, to take care of them. The previous governments did not take account either, and the future government will not take account, and this has already been shown through this bill. The definition itself - achieving the rights and integration of refugees - see, if this formulation refers to refugees and internally displaced persons, the exercise of rights, there is no right. The rights are laid down by the Refugees Act. It's the only material law in this sphere that applies to refugees. What does it mean to exercise the right? Right now, we have about 100,000 refugees. What rights? They, when they have gained citizenship, automatically lose refugee status illegally, become citizens of Serbia. What rights can they achieve? By what legal and material regulations? Not once. Integration of refugees and internally displaced persons, it's a procedure like any other. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has no legal authority to exercise any right in terms of the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons. I insist and demand that refugees and internally displaced persons be installed far more, the proposing should consider this, far more formulations that will refer to the physical return of Krajisnik to Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia, to Republika Srpska, and internally displaced persons to KIM. You have to install it in the bill. That must be an obligation, because there's no other regulation than this. Here you must install it and it must be in the power of the ministry and as such must be translated and revived in practice. In the foreign ministry's jurisdiction, there must be a realisation of normalisation of relations with all former SFRY countries. Realisation of the conflict agreement, but in a real material sense. Huge assets and huge rights, property and social, remained to the Serbs in the former republics. Who cares about them? Who cares about that property? Nobody. The vast property of legal entities from the territory of the Republic of Serbia remained there. Who cares about them? Nobody. The issue of succession must be discussed here in this House. You don't worry about that. In view of the short time, I suggest that the promoter, refugees and internally displaced persons enter far more seriously than you suggested here. Their rights must be discussed here. The foreign ministry must force Croatia and BiH to return everything that the Serbs had, which was set on fire and destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u435	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Zeljko Tomic, DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u436	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, do not mind the DSS and NS MPs why they insist that we finally receive the text of the amendment, which is still this morning at 9.50 p.m., according to our information, submitted here by the coalition For European Serbia, which is abolished by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We want accurate and timely information, why it takes so many hours for that paper to get to us. I speak as a longtime member of the Committee on International Relations, and I must remind this opportunity that more than one third of Serbia's Constitution is dedicated to human and minority rights. Why is there an intensities, it's public now already a secret, and it's no longer a secret, that the human and minority rights department's intelligence should be transferred to the Department of Justice? What's going on? The public needs to know. Please make sure we get the amendment texts as soon as possible. In order to prevent culinary stories, we want to find out exactly what is going on and that amendment as soon as possible to get into our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u437	It is these amendments that are in your MPs' clubs that will be shared with you now. At the time you expressed your interest, the technical procedure was ongoing. Everything happens at regular hours, there's no reason for any paranoia. The word has a People's Messenger, Mrs. Vervain Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is right that DSS colleagues who have insisted, according to the Rules of Procedure, that amendments submitted to the MPs by the proposing representatives be shared. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you were wrong when you said the amendments were with the MPs. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as a man who enjoys great trust in this House and with all the employees, has received this one copy of the amendment, but the MPs in the benches have not yet received the amendment. When it comes to the law on ministries, or the bill, I would not say that this government will be a socially responsible government, given the large number of ministries, to a large number of agencies, administrations, republican institutions. Yesterday, when we discussed this on the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic's representative began his presentation with a question - why such a massive government, so he tried to explain it to us. Here, since you haven't convinced us, colleague Ratkovic, I'd use one folk bar -- "a small bar, a lot of crocodiles." This government will be composed of 17 political parties, so it is not surprising that we are offered such a large number of ministries. I stress, what's the problem for the SRS, that's our principled position that we've been presenting here for years, the problem of parallel state bodies. It's not just the ministries, every ministry has a parallel either agency, or administration, or a directorate, and when you look at, here in this bill, you'll see that almost identical jurisdiction is provided for both the ministry and the agency, which somehow fails from that ministry. This is therefore our principled position and we will never vote for such laws, and we will not vote for such agencies because we think that, on the one hand, it is a force on the villa, or that it is directly in this way entered the pockets of citizens, and on the other hand, we understand why this government is doing so, because the previous governments did so. Not all party officials can be ministers, but they can be shadow ministers, by being directors of agencies, directors of directors, management, etc. It's an explanation why such a massive state apparatus. The Serbian Radical Party, or MP group, has made its position under this bill through 64 amendments, how much we have invested on this bill and, of course, we will talk about all these amendments. It'll only be the day after tomorrow, it's impossible, given that it has to go 24 hours according to that rogue Rules of Procedure, which was adopted here and which brings us to a situation that tomorrow we'll be doing everything maybe an hour or two, three at most, because we won't be able to discuss these amendments because you have a bad Rules of Procedure. But a man can't explain it to you. You're going to change, you're going to change, you're going to try an even more restrictive Rules of Procedure to bring in, so we know what kind of proposal you have, but we'll talk about it when it's current, Mrs. Kolundjia. Now I'd like to speak very briefly only of two or three ministries. The Department of Justice, it's interesting that an explanation of what the Ministry of Justice is going to do in one paragraph. Half of that passage is covered by the Justice Ministry's readiness, meaning the future government of the Republic of Serbia to what it says is handing over indictees of alleged war crimes to The Hague tribunal. So one part of the future coalition swore in an election campaign that it would never accept that any Serb would surrender to The Hague tribunal, and here in this law envisions it. Of course, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development could be told by tomorrow, what Mladjan Dinkic has collected for himself in that ministry, all where the money is. He only left the National Investment Plan, which will actually be the government. We know that the national plan was used by Dragan Gilas, and we know that the yellow presidents of the municipalities ran an election campaign with the funds of Serbian citizens. Who's going to be lucky now, we'll see when we get a proposal from the government. I'll just say, for a short period of time, one sentence related to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I was really shocked when the press asked me what I thought about that amendment, I thought they were joking or I didn't understand what they were asking me. In particular, yesterday I was talking about it when, in the reasons for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, it is said, among other things, that the adoption of this law will speed up the work to protect human and minority rights, etc. Of course, I repeat what I said yesterday, human and minority rights in Serbia are not compromised, the rights of Serbs in part of Serbia, which is Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, one part of this ruling coalition, first of all I mean DS and G 17 plus, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are not interested, you showed this by your relationship with the formation of the Serb assembly in Kosovo and Metohija. But not to accept, and we've already asked by amendment twice to form the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and I guess because you've heard that on all committees we've said that this is not your invention, that this is the idea of the SRS years ago, today it occurred to you to delete this part of Article 2 by amendment. It's a bill of law. So your law is bad, the government will be even worse, we'll talk about it when we're about amendments and specifically about government members.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u439	The Rules of Procedure were advertised by MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u440	The Honorable President, dear friends, dear colleagues, just to inform this assembly, the amendments have just arrived. I thank the professional service, otherwise the criticism of you, the president, that we must receive these amendments in time in the future, which took us six hours. Otherwise, it is that political trade has been achieved, the Ministry of Human Rights is abolished and belongs to the justice ministry. Namely, I just wanted to inform this assembly, this home, that the amendments had not arrived until after six hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u441	Thank you. The damage to the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u442	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104: "The Members of the People are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. ''So, the way the President of Parliament addressed the parliamentary group I belong to, the DSS-NS, is extremely offensive. We're not paranoid. It's a little strange that only one amendment travels six hours to us and that this amendment applies to political trade, the most terrifying ever seen, because, excuse me, it can't be the subject of political trade something that applies to the domain of human and minority rights. We all swore that, both position and opposition. It can't be the subject of any kind of shop.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u443	Thank you. I would just like to inform you that the amendments, draft laws and amendments to the bill can be reached within a short period of time provided for by the Rules of Procedure when the deadline for submitting amendments is until the beginning of the first principle debate at the session of the National Assembly. The amendments submitted by the President of the National Assembly shall refer to the legislator, the MPs, the relevant committees in the Government, so until the beginning of the first principle debate at the meeting of the National Assembly, which shall be done and provided for in Articles 145 and 146 of this Rules of Procedure. No one's qualified at all, I just said there's no reason for suspicion and that everything is in regular procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u444	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Rules of Procedure 104, quoted by my colleague, Mrs Milica Vojic-Markovic. On the other hand, we started the session at ten o'clock, and we had a proposing who for an hour explained two laws, and then we have an amendment that was submitted before the legislator was explained. That means we've been deceived by the promoter. We have fewer ministries than anticipated by the bill. So, please explain why we received the membership of the ministry, that there is a ministry of human and minority rights, and we find out later, although the amendment was previously submitted, that this ministry was attached to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u445	I would just like to inform the Parliament and the public that the amendment was submitted by Mr Marko Djurisic, a MP, not by a group of MPs, but by an individual.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u446	Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, I'm also advertising the violation of Article 104 that speaks of dignity, because you said we were paranoid, perhaps some of us. There's no room for paranoia, just naked facts. Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, the legislator and legislator of the law, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, has long talked about how so many ministries will count and so many ministries, and now one amendment is coming from the same parliamentary group, six and more hours after handover to the office or the competent office, and we are now in the position that we have from the same parliamentary group a proposal to reach an odd number of ministries. Now more than that golden voice and everything we've talked about can fall into the water, but we also know that MPs from the national minority parties are very dissatisfied and for the sake of the public about this, you have to make a statement about what's been going on all day, why this amendment has been going on for hours to the MPs and to get the veil off of this, something must have happened. There was a certain kind of trade, but we expect you to say that, not to deceive both the public and the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u447	I would just like to say that the fate of this amendment is identical to the following amendments, which were also submitted by MPs Mr. Pejcic Aleksandar, Mrs. Banović Donka, Mr. Radulović Milos, Mr. Tomic Zeljko and Djurisic Marko. So, exactly the same procedure and the exact same fate in this congregation. I thank and ask Mr. Bozidar Delic to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u448	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will see that in the shortest time I say what interests me particularly, and I believe that Serbian citizens are also interested, and it is related to the enormous increase in staff in the state administration. Although the Law on State Administration provides for, in Article 29 and Article 34, which bodies and organisations exist, I expected that the rapporteur, as he did well for the Ministry of Defence and for all other ministries, would declare here which bodies and organisations, regardless of whether they are the inspectorates of the administration, directorates, secretariats or institutions. This is because all of these organisations are on the state budget, and yet because of the fact that this kind of interpretation of jurisdiction from the ministry to the ministry, we no longer know which ministry is responsible and which ministry is overseeing each of these bodies. Someone can also say it's regulated by law. However, laws that are from some earlier times as supervisory authorities mention organs that we absolutely no longer have under the Constitution. For example, I'm interested in these republican institutions, where the Republic Seismological Institute is. I didn't find it anywhere in these materials. Also, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic mentioned here about the finance ministry. All I'm talking about is customs administration, and I'm wondering where the other authorities are, where the IRS is, where's the Treasury Authority, where's the gambling board, the tobacco management, the money laundering prevention, the foreign currency inspectorate and the Free Zones Authority? How does he control them? Good to see you, gentlemen. Interested in all citizens of Serbia who oversees the Public Procurement Agency, the Recycling Agency, the Energy Efficiency Agency, the Refugees' Commissioner and the Restitution Directorate? Also, when it comes to an even more drastic example, when it comes to the Ministry of Infrastructure, it does not stand anywhere that the authorities and organisations are related to this ministry, but somewhere in the middle of the text, which is very symptomatic, it stands - inspection is done by this ministry, except for inspections in the area of air traffic. Then the question arises, gentlemen, who's doing this surveillance in the area of air traffic? We know there used to be an Air Traffic Sector at the Department of Traffic and the Federal Flight Control. In the state community, Serbia-Montenegro was formed in 2003, the Civil Aviation Directorate and an Aviation Control Agency was established, but those as independent and independent organisations, decisions by governments that are not legal here in this parliament. Problems arise from the very beginning, as the state of Serbia suffers great damage, it loses its reputation. Since 2000, she has also lost the right to control certain airspace. Since there's no more time, I'll talk about this when the amendments to this ministry are in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u449	Mr. Borislav Pelevic has a word. I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u450	Madam President, we didn't understand each other. I asked you a question you didn't answer. So as president of the National Assembly, you have received this amendment before us MPs. You have received this amendment on the abolition of the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights before us MPs. In the meantime, while the promoter explained an hour to us and read about the Ministry of Minority and Human Rights, you did not inform him, or you were unable to inform him that there was this kind of amendment or something else. Or it was the trade of political chiefs of the DS, so when they agreed to cut that number, then the amendment was allowed to multiply. What's the problem? If there's not enough copiers, let's buy another two or three, and make that procedure go a little faster. That's a question you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u451	I'd just like to let you know that I was interested in the amendment being seduced. That was at 9.55 this morning. Therefore, there was really no waiting, the most regular amendment was accepted, like everyone else. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure advertised by fellow MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u452	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have before me an amendment that was filed at 9.55 p.m., so today, before the session of the Serbian Parliament begins. We had a chance to hear this morning from the legislator, Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, who explained to us what this law should contain. Article 2 states that the future government of the Republic of Serbia should have 24 ministries. The amendment, which was submitted before that, although we have been listening to a 45-minute discussion, as the ruling coalition sees the future arrangement of the government of the Republic of Serbia, predicts that the ministry under regular number 5 in Article 2 of this law, the justice ministry and the 24 ministry are being joined into a single ministry. That means, if nothing else, that for one ministry, a smaller number than what's supposed to be here. I ask, since Mr. Ratkovic is here, are you speaking to the president of your executive board who submitted this amendment? Do you have any reason to give us why you've explained the 24 ministries, by amendment you're proposing 23? I suppose when you submit to the amendment that you have the necessary majority to adopt that amendment. So, we've got this material, it's not clear to me that it takes seven hours for the congregation services to multiply one amendment and distribute to the MPs. Unless there are papers in the DSS MPs' club, there's enough paper to print and share it with all the MPs. I don't know if we should wait another seven hours, maybe there'll be another amendment in the meantime, and then after midnight we can talk about how many future governments will have ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u453	Please, Mr. Ratkovic, as a proposing officer, give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, due to the lack of understanding, and to the termological and conceptual, individual fellow Members of the People's Parliament, primarily from the DSS-NS coalition, I must say the following. I'm not an explanatory, as one of my distinguished colleagues said, nor did he propose this law. The proposer of this law is 122 MPs. I am a representative of the motion in the debate on the ministry law in principle. So, at the beginning of today's session, when the President of Parliament gave me his word, I explained in principle the ministry law. Amendments shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as this is an emergency procedure, at the latest until the start of the debate in principle. So many amendments have been filed until 10.00 hours. You will be informed, or all of us and the amendments should be delivered to us. Obviously, this is a technical matter, that the professional service of the Serbian Parliament has received a number of amendments and that later in some regular procedure it has multiplied and was worth delivering to the president of parliament, committees and, of course, to the MPs. So here is trying to create a confusing picture of the proposer proposing one text of the law in principle, and then the amendment intervention goes with the amendment on the correction of the text. I want to say in principle that this is common, that it is not unusual to do so. In X cases, we were witnesses here in parliament that the legislator, whether the government, or a group of MPs, had submitted amendments after the debate in principle and during the debate in principle. That is what the point is, and therefore the debates in principle and discussions in particular are divided. That we, as MPs, look at the law in principle, and then in the course of the debate, the ruling and opposition groups, and especially in the discussion of the details, we look at the argument both of the opposition and the positional MPs, and eventually the National Assembly decides whether or not to accept the legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u455	Mr Tomislav Nikolic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u456	There's really a huge amount of untrue or inconceivable understanding of things here. So, the Proposer is 122 MPs. You're an interpreter. Whoever explains it, he's the explainer. The Proposer makes an amendment. Ambassador Djurisic is the promoter, he submitted the amendment. The amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Then why is it that your amendment to a man who can't stand the amendment and has the right to the Constitution? What situation have you come to by representing your government in formation? What were you supposed to suggest this law? It proposes 122 MPs, and then one submits an amendment. What is he and what is the outcome of that amendment? That he's being discussed? Why should the amendment of the legislator be discussed? On the other hand, this amendment is not the result of the debate. The amendment was filed before the debate and it was not the result of the debate at all. It didn't come to the head of the People's Parliament, he listened to the debate, and he said, "We're missing something here." The moment you went out for a pay phone to explain the law, you convinced us that we had to form a ministry of human and minority rights. You've really put out a lot of arguments. How come you didn't convince your MP? Now you're going to convince him. So, really, how God has gathered you so colorful, with prevailing yellow. When you beat us, boast. If you count on beating us by taking Chanka and Wolf into the MP's group to have an MP like us, maybe it's some kind of victory for you, and when Dana hangs on your back, you'll see how much it's Pierre's winning and when she starts looking for silver coins. For Chank not to talk. Either he stopped being an autonomist, or you became autonomists, we'll see what brought you together. So, Madam President, you really have again shown that you are absolutely dependent on the will of the DS. For seven hours, you have kept not only this amendment, even the DSS amendments. You kept it out of the service so the MPs wouldn't get it. Who are the amendments to? Who needs those amendments first to get? People's MPs. The debate on this law is under way and you're hiding the amendments you've submitted or that amendment has been blackmailed. I treat that with a little more experience than you do. With this amendment you blackmailed one of the coalition partners and then he had to give up something, now you're going to withdraw the probably amendment because it's nonsense to abolish the human rights ministry once you've proposed it. If you hadn't suggested it, we could have asked you why you didn't have a human rights ministry, and you'd say justice will worry about it and the matter will go away, but you suggest that the ministry of human rights, and then you abolish it and thus confirm my diagnosis of Boris Tadic that there is no D in it from democracy. What D has with you is dictatorship. You have no idea what democracy is, and we're going to have to teach you that again. I'm just sorry that some people realize how little you are actually worth taking part in and helping Serbia to be further ruined. The fate of this amendment is a clear sign of what awaits us, in fact, when you form a government next week. Only evil awaits us. The easiest thing to do is surrender and say, "Here's what they want." It is if a man were to decide about his family, but here it concerns the fate of millions of people. How can we let you do millions of people what you want? Don't mind the Constitution, don't mind the laws, don't mind the morals, there's a very bad past behind you. In the last eight years, you have held Serbia without the Constitutional Court. In your day, the most serious crimes have occurred, the most serious crimes possible, may even be wrapped up in the shores of the Privatisation Act. What else is waiting for Serbia with you, and why should Serbia give you the chance to ruin it again? Why should certain small parties give you the opportunity to destroy Serbia again, to boast that you have won? How did you win that, what did that victory look like to you? So someone has to give up their program to go with you. So you have to ruin someone else, even your partner who's going to come in with you, because he's not waiting for anything good, and you know it well, but you're treading everything in front of you. What are partners for you, what is an MP who wrote the amendment for you? What are human and minority rights for you? God forbid you really have a ministry, so that the ministry has to solve something. No, you should end it, both for Kosovo and Metohija, for refugees and for human and minority rights. You need to end the Justice Department. You need to remove all the ministries in which you have shown that they are of no importance to you at all. What do you leave behind -- these ski resorts, climbers, snowflakes, to leave a ministry that will spread the red carpet when foreign ambassadors come, when these from the EU come? I don't know what else you could do -- maybe the Serbian Ministry of Bruise in the World, the Ministry of Recognition of Serbian Sins, the Ministry of Catharism of Serbia? You could do it. Not you, you're serious people. I know a lot of you, and I'm gonna get to know a lot of people. But those who lead you, or you have no democratic way of choosing those who lead you. As you do not choose in the party democratically those who lead you, you would wish that Serbia too could not choose those who will lead it, but must be a natural Democratic Party - which is why they threaten us with bombings and sanctions, isolation. That's why they come here to keep you company in the campaign, that's why they're calling you to sign an agreement in the campaign, just so you can be in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u457	Thank you. Ambassador Zoran Nikolic was advertised for his injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u458	Dear colleagues, Mr. Ratkovic, you've been in a lot of trouble giving this explanation, you've simply been stuttering, and that shouldn't be happening to you here. Because you were very fluent 45 minutes this morning, when we started this debate, so you read us everything in this bill, literally you read everything, but you didn't just read who the promoters were. Among other things, under regular number 15 is Mr. Djurisic Marko, who proposes this law, which says he has 24 ministries. We also see that five minutes before the beginning of the session, Mr Marko Djurisic submitted an amendment that abolished the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. So, I guess it was fair of Mr. Mark Đurisic to inform you, since you are the privileged representative of the promoter. It was your turn to discuss whether this government has 24 ministries or 23 ministries. Obviously, Mr. Marko Djurisic has led you astray, i.e. led you astray. Now it's just a question of whether you're the only one who's mistaken and how many MPs from the DS are in error all day. Gentlemen, you form a government, or you intend to form a government, and you don't know how many governments there are, because by the time this amendment arrived recently, you were convinced that this government has 24 ministries. I trusted Mr. Ratkovic. However, I suppose the man is an authorised representative of the motionor and 122 MPs stand before this law. We now see that this is not the case and it seems that Mr Marko Djurisic is holding 122 MPs in error, or there are informed MPs within the DS who know something, which other DS MPs do not know. Yesterday I appealed to you, to members of the DS - don't give all the power, regardless of the President of the Republic, don't let him lead the government, so transparently that he can control it. I know there are honorable exceptions and there are those who object against the authority of Mr Tadic. Is this perhaps the act, therefore, that Mr. Djurisic is using this amendment to make it known and to limit the power of Mr. Tadic, who obviously wants to rule all institutions. If so, I welcome that act by Mr Đurisic, and we will see whether the MP group and you as the largest DS representatives stand behind it - whether or not to restrict the absolute authority of Mr Boris Tadic. That's what we'll see when you vote. I hope that by the day of the vote, you'll be informed whether 24 resors or 23? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u459	Thank you. Mr. Pelevic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u460	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, almost all previous speakers have found that in this bill, the future Serbian government is very bulky, one of the largest in the world, the largest in the region, the largest in Europe. It is also said that the government is very expensive and that I will pay the citizens of Serbia, as usual. It has also been found that this government is a fruit of compromise when it comes to the formation of this government. I don't want to talk about it, since I wouldn't repeat myself, because that's quite enough being said about it. I would talk about another aspect that was not mentioned in the debate in principle, which is the unconstitutional nature of this law. I'm going to illustrate this with the facts of two examples, the two ministries that are more interesting to me -- that's the Ministry of Kim and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The KIM ministry, in Article 23, writes -- that the ministry is managing, performing the affairs of state administration in the Serb KIM areas. That means your commitment to the division of Cosmeta. That's contrary to Article 8. Serbia's constitution, which says, "The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible, the border of the Republic of Serbia is invulnerable and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution." So, gentlemen of the promoters, knowingly or unconsciously, you have violated the Constitution and this member of the ministry law is completely incompatible with Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the same Article 23, which speaks of Kosovo and Metohija, you say - that the KIM ministry is performing affairs and is regulating the functioning of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Since when does the government regulate the operation of the SPC? You could've done some other term, "co-operate" or "determined co-operation with the SPC". That's how you hurt Article 44. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that speaks of religious communities. Article 44: "Churches and religious communities are equal and separate from the state". So you have again knowingly or unconsciously violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this article. Secondly, the very fact that you have proposed this member in just one complex sentence, without any point - speaks of your relationship to KIM. While the ministry run by Mladjan Dinkic, for economics and regional development, has two and a half pages, you have devoted only one sentence to KIM and it speaks enough about your care for KIM. One more thing, instead of putting this ministry first in order, because this is a key issue of the survival of the Republic of Serbia, you put this ministry in 21st place of 24 ministries, which also shows your relationship with KIM, since you have obviously already written it off. Well, if you wrote it off, we didn't and we'll never write it off. One more thing, where there is a famous sentence from Mr Tadic, the president of Serbia, that he will never recognise KIM's independence. At least you could have put that order under this article. Where's a lot of other things that talk about moving with kim, internally displaced within kim? Where is that clause from the Annex to Resolution 1244, which speaks of the return of 1,000 soldiers, or officers up to 1,000 soldiers, who will do certain duties in the interest of Serbian cultural heritage, in the interest of preserving Serbia, etc.? You don't have it because you don't really care about it. Second of all, as far as the Department of Sports is concerned, you've really mixed up grandmothers and frogs there. What about Article 16 and what about efforts to prevent young people from leaving the country? In no word did you mention it in the part that speaks of youth. You're talking about some international and inter-Serb organizations, cooperation, etc., and you're not talking about a brain drain. This should be, above all, the task of the youth ministry and sport: to stimulate young people to stay in the country and to give what they have learned and received from this country to this country, not to clean the streets abroad. As far as sports are concerned, this is a really embarrassing part of this law. Everything but sports is mentioned here, absolutely everything. It's not about school sports, it's not about amateur sports, it's not about disabled sports, it's not about successes or the failures of our selections, it's not about organising international competitions. There's nothing here about funding the preparation of our best selections, there's nothing about funding, about stimulating our successful young amateur competitors. (President:Time. I'm done. The sport is ugly during DOS until the very bottom. You did it on the day you abolished the sports ministry in 2001, and then you reintroduced the Minister of Sports, who said herself that she had never been a sports worker, but that she was here on the party line. Last sentence. This mentions a national strategy for sports development. You don't have it. You are unable to build a national strategy for sport development in Serbia in eight years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u461	Since the elected groups have taken advantage of their time before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the parliamentary groups? Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u462	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, Article 104, violation of the dignity of this House. We have, in fact, shown and proved that the dignity of the Serbian Parliament has been violated throughout the day, literally from hour to hour. What has yet to be pointed out is that among the signatories of the ministry law there are no representatives of minority parties, no representatives of national minorities' parties. It's for the public. The amendment erasing the ministry of human and minority rights was signed by one of the party's largest MPs, tomorrow's likely ruling coalition. What should also be pointed out is that there is no representative of minority parties in the O.R. right now. We had a chance to hear them and see them during the day. Don't think they're happy. Of course not. I'm not speaking for them, but I'm conveying what I've heard and seen already in the media. So much for correctness, so much for today's day that apparently runs in one of the dirtier political trades Serbia remembers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u463	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u464	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we did not get an answer from the representatives of Mr Vlatko Ratkovic's proposal whether there were 23 or 24 ministries. Besides, the proposals are from other political parties. Has the G17 Group of MPs been notified of this amendment? What would SPS representatives say, PUPS, JS? What is their opinion on the abolition of this ministry? Do they know if we have 23 or 24 ministries? These are all the questions that we MPs need to know, and we have no answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u465	There's a word for Dr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u466	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 126. This law provides for the establishment of a very significant ministry of religion. I would ask a question to all of us, since there is already a Ministry of Faith, why is there no Committee on Religious Affairs? Furthermore, regarding Article 30, on special organisations, I would ask why Serbia's organisational state archive is not part of the Council of Ministers, or government? In normal European countries, the archives are an integral part of the Council of Ministers, such as was the Archives of Yugoslavia at the time of the SFRY. I guess I don't have to point out the importance of archives and archives for a country. In difficult times of war, along with the government, a state archive was compulsory after April's capitulation or after Serbia died in 1914. For example, in Article 21 of the Ministry of Culture there is no mention of archives. I guess he's hiding under the directive on the protection of cultural goods. It's just a few notes, so we can think about these questions ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u467	I thank you, although the content you have presented is not related to Article 126, because this member regulates the issue of voting. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u468	Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226. We still haven't received an answer from the president of the assembly. I pray that this does not count at the time, because I will read the amendment submitted by Mr Marko Djurisic in front of the "For European Serbia" coalition, which reads "Article 2nd point 5) is amended and reads, "The Ministry of Justice and Human and Minority Rights, point 24" is deleted. "In the light of this amendment, it says: "In order to reduce the state administration, questions of human and minority rights should also be introduced into the work of the justice ministry. This puts an end to the need for the establishment of a special ministry of human and minority rights, but at the same time guarantees the highest degree of protection and supervision in this area." So, the Justice Department and the Human Rights Department are uniting into one. We still haven't received an answer whether this bill has 24 ministries, as it says in it and as the proposing representative explained this to us this morning, or whether this amendment will be accepted. I have heard from the ranks of MPs of the future ruling coalition that this amendment has been withdrawn. I ask the President of the Assembly to give us information whether this amendment has been withdrawn or not, should we wait until midnight, will any more amendments arrive, do you need another seven hours to multiply the amendments or can we work normally in particular tomorrow? Regardless of the disfavor of the "For European Serbia" coalition, I fully understand your dissatisfaction, because it is obvious that not only you, as MPs of the list "For Europe's Serbia", but also your coalition partners, were obviously not consulted on this. So, this morning, before the debate begins, this amendment has been submitted and we just want to clarify whether or not we're going to discuss this amendment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u469	You can't discuss this amendment tomorrow. It's gonna take 24 hours. The amendment has not been withdrawn, and if it is withdrawn, you will be notified in time. The opportunity to discuss this amendment is Thursday. We'll discuss him Thursday, if he's not withdrawn by then. I ask if he wants the word of the president or the representative of the parliamentary group without taking advantage of his right to Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. You've got 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u470	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been under discussion all day long, and none of the representatives other than Mr Ratkovic, the ruling majority has participated in this proposal for a law on ministries. We all feel strange and uncomfortable when we are faced with one situation that has never occurred in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism in the formation of the congregation's majority, that the assembly majority does not know how many ministries there will be. It simply happened as a year ago, that representative G17 plus submits an amendment that one agency should be abolished to join one of the ministries held by its president, Mladjan Dinkic, but it has never happened that a proposal for a law on the ministries of the majority was subject to an amendment that abolished the ministry. It is a very strange situation, and certainly no one wrote it at any time when the congregation majority was formed. Of course, we did not get an answer as to how it is possible, before the principle debate, that the representative of the legislators of this law does not know in fact how to think about the congregation's majority, whether, in the course of the discussion and during the debate, individual ministries will be abolished. We can be faced with the fact that perhaps now, during this time, another amendment has been submitted where some ministries are abolished and that tomorrow we are faced with the fact that the debate here all day is being held about having 24 ministries, the situation has been debated that we may have an even number of members in the government, so we are rewarding in an unusual and strange way for the Prime Minister to have a golden vote, i.e. two votes, and that is something that Serbian citizens should be very well informed about, and I believe that most citizens have now listened to this discussion. It is simply that, taking into account today's discussion, when considering the reasons presented by the DSS-NS parliamentary group as a criticism of the proposed law, it is clear that, within the ruling coalition, there is a certain confusion that will certainly be transferred to the government itself. The basic criticism that is being addressed today is that such a government, which does not have the elemental coordination in its constitution and structure itself, cannot be both effective and stable, neither concrete nor political. In that sense, we are convinced that when he is a prime minister who is likely to be informed that one ministry is being abolished and that a potential candidate for minister must be informed tonight that he will not be a minister, when he brings out his exposés here, we will see to what extent and how the Government of the Republic of Serbia will design a future policy. On the basis of discussions on both the government law and the ministry law, we are convinced that this policy will not be good for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u471	Thank you. Mr. Professor Zarko Obradovic, representative of the SPS-PUPS-JS parliamentary group, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u472	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Since I know that we're all at the end of our psychic and possibly mental possibilities, since we've had two days where there's been a lot of debate on these laws, let me say a few more words on behalf of the SPS-PUPS-JS parliamentary group on this ministry law that's on the agenda today. In fact, we all know that the adoption of this law creates assumptions for the government's choice. I think it's a good thing, because many people in Serbia today expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to form. I say this not by chance, because we, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are practically a year and a half in one electoral state and we have a situation where everything is working out for us, but it's not the economy that's supposed to be the foundation of society. If you remember January 2007, we had presidential elections, then we had a technical government. The new government was formed on 15 May 2007 at midnight. In January of this year, we had presidential elections, and immediately after the parliamentary elections. We are in a situation where in June 2008 there is a new congregation majority and an opportunity to form a new government. Whether that government works better or worse, it will show time. We are entering this government with the belief that it will work better than the previous government and will not repeat the mistakes of the previous government. I say this not by chance, because every coalition government must respect the interests of coalition partners, but I hope that no mistake will be repeated in the past, that party interests will be dominant in relation to the interests of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Something that was the government's mark so far was that ministers had promoted their party programmes and electoral views before promoting the government's programme. At first, it was seen to be one government created on other principles. I say, if there's any luck, I hope that's the way it's gonna be, we won't repeat the mistakes that existed. As and how long the government will last, it depends, of course, on the government's relations, and on the commitment to the goals that the government will set as dominant, and of course on the results that are and whether the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be satisfied or not. Personally, I think there is a need, and I expected Mr. Ratkovic to do this, to report some more information about what is called the number of ministries and the number of members of the government. We have heard different estimates of how many members this government has, and how large it is, and that it is the largest in the region, and that of course there has been no government before with a number of ministries. For those who did not want to mention some data about the past, which shows, it seems to me, what was the situation in multiparty Serbia since 90, here, let me mention some data, so you will see what the position of this future government is based on the proposal for a law on ministries. In 1994 there were 30 government members, in 1998 there were 36 government members, in 2001 25, 2003 26, 2004, 19, 2007 25. Now, on the basis of this bill, 27: 25 or 27, or 22, or 24 ministries, will be. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves assess how much more this is and how much this will be a burden for budget users. I'm saying this because we've had different experiences, and one Deputy Prime Minister and seven Deputy Prime Ministers, and one Minister without portfolios and seven Ministers without portfolios. It's all part of our past and what was part of the government's work in the previous period. It didn't affect the government's work. The government of 1994, which had 30 members, put together the entire mandate, the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, and the assembly's majority then accounted for 127 MPs. So, 30 members of the government were then. I'm saying this just to light up another side of the government's functioning. I think it's good to hear. So that's how it works. As far as other things are concerned with the government, it would be correct for those who were members of the government to criticise advisers and others, who are part of the government's work, to let it stand in the second plan, because they created such a situation. I see that no one mentions anything that is a fact and is related to the events in Serbia after 2000, that objectively in the administration and public enterprises and in the government, a large number of people are employed. This is explained by the needs of government work and more efficiency, and, of course, professional and qualified people are being admitted in order to promote and adopt appropriate legal projects, i.e. apply. Personally, I think there's a lot of things to do. The government should be formed as soon as possible. I hope that after the formation of the government on the agenda of this parliament will be, for example, this gas arrangement with the Russian Federation, that there will be TSSP, that there will be a large number of laws that our state has been able to implement some of the credit arrangements that have been standing on hold for months and that will be one beginning of government work. I think we have to objectively put a lot of things on the agenda and try to solve them, because there are a lot of anomalies in our society that are accepted as some normal thing. The media is announcing what they want today. No one is responsible for the spoken word. It's interesting that there's total freedom to arm anyone in any way. First I was talking about economics, now I'm talking about the state of society. I think that, as a society, as a state, we must agree, if possible, or at least in institutions that do what they do in our society, as the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, to know what Serbia's state and national interests are and to try, regardless of party membership, to gather around these goals to promote them and to improve Serbia's position, and hence also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I mentioned the media, I mentioned for the reason you see what the media is publishing, publishing what the editor wants, not getting into whether it's true or not. Of course, there's a lot of insinuation. I'm getting to mention this because last week I was the subject of such a way of writing to the media, so on. illegal listening, contrary to the provisions of the Criminal Act, contrary to the Public Information Act. But they're all going to get an epilogue in court, because I am absolutely convinced that the judiciary will find a measure of such behavior. This is what I'm saying to all of us to understand, someone more, someone less, depending on how this problem comes down, but to understand, as people who do public work, that we are a public coup and the public needs to know a lot of things about what's part of our public work. What's privacy is supposed to remain privacy, but apparently many people don't respect it. So, anyway, I think it's a good thing that we had this debate both about government law and ministry law. We'll have tomorrow and the day after tomorrow a debate on amendments to those two laws. The amendment has many, in one case 12, in another 87. There will be an opportunity to hear many objections about the content of these two laws, but that is also part of parliamentary life, everyone has the right to say, and of course, the Proposer will appreciate what is acceptable or unacceptable of these amendments. In any case, we are on track to accept these laws and to get Serbia a new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u473	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zeljko Tomic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u474	Honored chairman, fellow MPs, Article 104 - dignity. I address directly the name and last name of Mr Vlatko Vlatkovic, the legislator of the law on behalf of 122 signatories of the draft law on ministries. I quote you this morning: "The Ministry of Human and Minority Rights is a new ministry, of great importance for the implementation of constitutional principles, constitutional norms, all of those documents signed by the Republic of Serbia and concerning the human and minority rights corpus and on which, practically, European civilizations are based. "Just one more part of your next sentence: "I don't have to speak specifically of the importance of this ministry, etc." I call on you to speak specifically, since your party colleague, who is also a signator of this bill, is also a signator of an amendment that is abolished by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We want your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u475	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Zoran Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u476	I thank you for putting Mr. Obradovic on display. We've had a chance to hear how many government members there have been since the 1990s, since the introduction of a multi-party system, but that's not exactly a piece of information to be boasted about. Obviously, the government that the SPS is entering cannot meet European standards, that the government is efficient and rational. That's my first impression. The second impression that Mr. Obradovic knows whether there will be 24 or 23 ministries, and the entire DS parliamentary group has no idea about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u477	Thank you. Mr. Zarko Obradovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u478	Each fellow MP may be the subject of interpretation, but I did not accidentally mention these figures, because today many MPs were only one type of information about the government. They forgot to say what was in the past. Someone might like it, someone doesn't, but the facts are inexorable. But when someone says -- we have a huge, huge government, so they say -- there are 24 ministries. All he has to say is, there's still a government with 22 ministries. Let's estimate how huge these two are and how slow the government's work will be. I come from the premise that we have 24 ministries until the Assembly decides otherwise. If I were to look at things the way my colleague is trying, I'm sorry, in these 87 amendments, and I looked at them, there are at least twenty amendments that suggest joining certain ministries. If I were to observe any such amendment from the point of view that it would be accepted, then we would probably have a government, or this bill would experience such changes in order not to be 24, but 13, 14 or 15 ministries. There will be as many ministries as the assembly majority, which will vote in favour of the bill and the amendment to this law, makes a decision. I am starting from the premise that the proposer has proposed 24 ministries and that this applies to all of us, until the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which would possibly change the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u479	Thank you, Mr. Radovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u480	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very interesting that on behalf of Mr. Ratkovic here, his answer to what we have clearly asked the promoter, Mr. Zarko Obradovic answers. We want to know clearly, today when we conclude this debate, how many ministries Serbia will have: 24 or 23. It's completely inappropriate to say that two ministries don't mean anything anymore. In the presentation, Aleksandra Jankovic, we made it clear what the figure is for Serbian citizens. I am interested here, Mr. Ratkovic, in his biography, I am speaking to you, since it is for the current future, perhaps Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, in his biography that he plays clarinet well in some band or whatever it was, since we have seen that, after some nice arrangements, we are entertained by Mr. Tadic and Mr. Dinkic by dawn in some beautiful atmosphere, and at one point, when a friend of his from Zaječar appeared and spoke about Mr. Cvetkovic as his future prime minister, he also pointed out that Mr. future prime minister is a former player of preferences. Since I'm playing the preferences, I don't mind, it's an intellectual game, does Mr. Prime Minister here bid on the number of ministries, should we know, that he told us, did he say it shouldn't be 24, but 23? Please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u481	Thank you, Mr. Savior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u482	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable President, I am truly fascinated and impressed by the inventiveness, creativity and this ability to metaphors that respected DSS colleagues have been producing lately. There's one thing I don't get. In fact, it is clear to me, but I want this and not for the sake of the MPs, because the MPs are all clear, but for the sake of the public, fellow MPs from the DSS and the NSS, or from the DSS in the first place, today is a debate on the principle of the ministry law, and I will repeat that again, a debate in principle, not a debate on amendments. How many ministries will be, depending on which amendment will be accepted or not, or when we vote on the law as a whole, then the National Assembly, and the public, and the state of Serbia will have formed ministries. The essence of the presentation of some fellow MPs is more of a debate on the government, and not this law. Surely two-thirds of the time used by fellow MPs has been devoted to the agenda point that will only come there after the day after tomorrow, it is a debate on the government of the Republic of Serbia. So today we are discussing a law on ministries in principle and, as we discussed yesterday in the principle of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government, tomorrow there is a debate in particular on the law on amendments and amendments to the law on government, and the day after that most likely amendments to this law on ministries. To your question whether there will be 23, 20 or 24 or 18 ministries, the decision will be made by the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u483	Thank you. The word is Mr. Palalic, a replica, so Mr. Zoran Nikolic after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u484	Indeed, dear colleague Ratkovic, we have a serious logic problem here. This morning, as a proposing representative, you presented to us how the future government will be formed, i.e. how many ministries will have, as a representative of the majority, as a representative of the signatories 122 MPs. Before the principle debate began, a representative of your majority submitted an amendment that abolished one ministry. It's just amazing that we don't know what the ruling majority's position is all day about how many ministries are going to have a future government. The opposition may propose to add one ministry, two, to abolish the ministries, but the ruling majority does not know what the future government and the proposing representative should look like if they do not know it, it is indeed a serious problem. Or you knew, so you didn't tell us. So you, as a proposing representative, had to know if anyone in our existing group would submit the amendment. That's what Serbian citizens want to know. So the simple elemental logic of what you've just said is gone. Either you're all behind the proposal that you've explained or simply individuals can, apart from your knowledge, invest amendments that bring down the whole concept that you've proposed. But these individuals are the signatories of this proposal, and that's the main problem. So you didn't give us the answer that from the moment of the principle debate, you, as a representative of the majority promoter, didn't know, or knew, but you kept silent, to change the bill by abolishing individual ministries. You just said that five, six more can be abolished, we just need to know which proposal the ruling majority is behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u485	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u486	Mr. Ratkovic, why did you just come out for a pay phone? Here, I'll try to explain. So you went out to tell us that you are fascinated by the creativity and inventivity of the DSS representatives, or MPs from the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group. We're fascinated by your ignorance. So today you were authorized or represented by the promoter, and you had no idea how many governments the ministry had. That's why we're fascinated by you. You know why we're fascinated? All the time I believe that the top politicians and representatives of these parties who will form the government have made an agreement and a real agreement that the government will look, how many ministries will have. In fact, after this whole day's discussion, I realized that this government is being made by Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic, because he's opening the thesis here tonight as an authorized, or as a proposing representative, we'll see if there will be 24 or 23 ministries. So, you're obviously making that decision. Are you aware of the responsibility you have on your shoulders? It's not small, but joke aside, although this isn't a joke, this is one really big guff of parties that will make up a future government. But what I'm saying is secondly, why weren't you more creative if you already wanted to reduce one portfolio, so that you could attach jurisdiction and certain ministries to another ministry? Why did you do that with the Ministry of Protection of Human and Minority Rights? It is an important ministry and it is an integral part of European standards that we must meet. You are a party that claims to have a deed to European values. It's good that in your first act, in fact, you haven't taken the first step yet, or let's say that this is the first step towards making a government, you're slowly losing that deed. You are not the protectors of those European values you claim to be. You shouldn't have withdrawn, or given that amendment, whether it's part of it now or not, that's what you're gonna do tomorrow or tonight at night. Mr. Tadic, I would like to inform you that it is mandatory for me to call Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic to consult, because it is obviously up to you both to your goodwill, and to your concrete decision whether it will be one or the other solution, depends on what kind of government we will vote on in a few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u487	The word is Mr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u488	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even if we can put aside, and we can't, but at one point, the number of ministries, whether it's 24, 23 and how much, what is the point is that you said this morning that there is a ministry of human and minority rights within the government. I quote, I don't have to speak specifically of the importance of this ministry. They said many, there are acts, there are charters, there are more than a third of the text that is dedicated to human and minority rights, the basic civilization norm, so we often called it after this speaker. Then comes an amendment that says - no, this ministry does not exist, by the signatories, Mr Mark Djurisic, who also signed that this law should exist in this regard, with this ministry within him. Now, that's a question for you: will you or won't you have the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights? I appeal, I call, I don't see any representatives of minority parties again, that they say what they think about this, that they say if this is a kind of attack on their rights. In my opinion, it is, I may be too free to interpret, but I think it is. Come on, talk me out of it, say it's not like that if it isn't, and I'm saying it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u489	Injury of the Rules of Procedure or Replication? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u490	Article 226. One question for you: since this Ministry of Minority and Human Rights has not appeared in the media, so I ask you is it true that the Democratic Party has no right to this portfolio, so for these reasons you have abolished this ministry? If so, then tell us it's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-01-0.u491	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I hereby conclude the search in principle. According to Article 140, paragraphs 3 and 4, honourable Members of the People, I am holding a session for 2. Seven. 2008, so for tomorrow at 12:00 p.m., when we will continue the review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act in particular. Thank you for your work. Dear MPs, as the session of the Legislative Committee is under way and it is estimated that it will take another 30 minutes, we will postpone the start of today's work in half an hour.
