ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7523	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records, 110 MPs are present. To determine the number of MPs, please be present to insert their cards into the voting unit. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Jasmina Benmansur, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government and Ljerka Ecimovic, head of the Association's Management Department. I welcome the Minister and our guests. We're continuing to work towards the agenda. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Associations (Principles) You have received a bill from the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. MEP Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; G17 Plus parliamentary group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the "Forward Serbia" - 24 minutes; the SPS-JS parliamentary group - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS parliamentary group - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic, G 17 Plus; Zoran Nikolic, DSS; Natasa Vučković, ZES; Sladjan Mijaljevic, SRS. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. The word is proposed by Milan Markovic, the state administration minister and local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7524	The Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, interestingly for this proposal of the Law on Associations, is that, practically, since 2001, it has been intensively working on making one of these texts, but unfortunately, due to different circumstances, this text has never been found before the MPs, or it has never been open to debate. In particular, we have so far had draft laws laid down by the government and 2001 and 2006 and 2007, but none of these proposals, unfortunately, failed to be implemented as a law. The reasons for the adoption of a new law on associations lie in the colourfulness and mutual discrepancies of the legal framework that today in the Republic of Serbia regulates the area of achievement by the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of association. These are, above all, the provisions of the Constitution which, according to the highest European standards in this area, guarantee freedom of association and provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which our country ratified in December 2003. On the other hand, this area is also governed by the above-mentioned Republic Law on Social Organisations and Associations of Citizens of 1982, the Law on the Association of Citizens in Association, Social Organisations and Political Organizations established for the territory of the 1990 SFRY and the provisions of the Law on Movement and residence of Foreigners, which regulates the association of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, it is clear that it is necessary to adopt laws on associations that will be in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the above-mentioned European Convention. It is important to stress that none of the above rules contains provisions on the establishment and functioning of foreign associations in the Republic of Serbia, so that these associations in Serbia today act on the basis of a certificate issued by the Foreign Ministry, almost without any legal basis, and their funding and their work are legally unregulated. By passing the Association Law, the Republic of Serbia will also fulfil its obligation to join the Council of Europe, in line with the opinion of the 2002 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is also necessary to bear in mind that in previous decades in the world and also in the Republic of Serbia, freedom of association, position and operation of the association have taken a very important place and role in the overall social processes, and that the adoption of the Association Act, whose adoption we propose, will significantly facilitate the achievement of the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of association, and on the other hand allow the state to effectively exercise its powers in this area. It is paradoxical, but true, that Serbia is the last of the countries in an environment that has not passed the modern law on associations, although there is a tradition of guaranteeing and enabling association on voluntary basis, to achieve common non-profit goals. Namely, constitutional norms guaranteeing this freedom still meet in the 1869 Serbian Constitution, and the first law to which this freedom is governed in Serbia is the Law on choirs and associations from 1881. Also, in Serbia there are associations that work more than a century, such as The Union of Engineers and Technicians, which binds the beginning of its work to 1868 or e.g. The hunting alliance of Serbia, which was founded in 1896. We've been trying to get out of this situation benefits that will contribute to better quality legal solutions. Therefore, as a starting point for the preparation of the law, they took the proposals for the 2001 Association Act, 2006. In 2007. Critics of these draft laws, comparative-legal solutions, reached standards in our country, the position of the Council of Europe expressed through other principles on the status of NGOs in Europe, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, ratified in 2003 and, of course, the recommendations of the Council of Europe on the basic principles of this legislation and the obligation of states to support the development and functioning of the civil society organisation from October 2007. The draft law on associations passed a comprehensive public debate involving more than a hundred registered associations. The law whose adoption is proposed in a comprehensive manner regulates the position and functioning of domestic and foreign associations, which will be able to register with the same state body – the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We expect that the provisions of the laws governing the position and functioning of foreign associations, on the one hand, will significantly facilitate and encourage their work, and on the other hand enable the state to see and see into this segment of the functioning of the association. The conditions have been liberalised for the establishment of an association by reducing the number of persons needed to establish an association from the ten so far to the three commercially capable natural or legal persons, which is in line with the highest European standards in this area. The possibility for minors from 14 years of age to be founders of the association, with the certified written consent of their legal advocates, which is the law in this section in line with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 15. The registration process of the association, i.e. the system of approval so far, under which the association could only start after obtaining approval from the competent authority, has been facilitated, replacing the consistent application system of the association. According to the system we are introducing, the association is established freely by adopting a founding act, statutes and the election of a person authorised to represent at the assembly of the association, and the legal person's status takes place on the day of entry into the register of the competent state authority. However, it is not mandatory to register, or if the association decides not to register with it, legal rules on the civil partner of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia shall apply. According to the highest European standards in this area, it is provided for a ban on the operation of the association to be decided by the Constitutional Court, only by the Constitution and by the law of established cases. This means that limiting the freedom of association in Serbia in the future will not be subject to a discretionary assessment by the administrative authorities, but will be decided by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court may prohibit an association only in the Constitution and the Association Law of established cases. The proposed restriction constitutes the legitimate law of the State in this area is based on Article 11(2). European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is also foreseen that domestic and foreign associations, when operating in the territory of the Serbian state, are subject to supervision of all competent inspections and other state authorities and services. The association's obligation to run business books, make up financial reports has been established, subject to audits of financial reports, in accordance with accounting and audit regulations. When it comes to the representations of foreign associations, control of who and what means it brings to Serbia, it should provide provisions of the laws which are prescribed that a certified translation of the act on the registration of that association in the home country or the confirmation of the competent authority should be submitted to the association under the right of the home state to obtain legal personality status and without enrolment in the register and certified translation of the country of origin document from which they are determined who are the founders of an association established by a representative in Serbia. These representations are generally subject to domestic regulations when it comes to financial operations and reporting. The transitional and final provisions of the law resolve the fate of remaining immovableities in the social property used by social organisations, by giving the law the possibility for social organisations to establish in the judicial procedure the right of property on given immovableities a proportionate share which they participated in financing those immovableities by means of own funds from voluntary memberships, gifts, donations or other legal means. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). This regime excludes the immovableities of social organisations which, before being reregistered under the law, the status of the association of citizens and organisations had the right to property on given immovableities. The law stipulates that social rights organisations will, on this basis, be governed by the law governing denationalisation, or restitution. All the movable assets in social property used by social organisations become the property of these social organisations. Given the importance of these newspapers, we have foreseen a transitional period of one year in which associations are left a deadline for their status and work to comply with the new law. As can be seen, the Law on Associations, whose adoption we propose, provides for full freedom, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, but at the same time, the removal of existing legal gaps and discrepancies creates legal conditions for the responsible conduct of the association and the possibility for the competent state authority in this area to exercise its powers. We therefore expect that the new law on associations will be a good basis and an incentive to achieve freedom of association, but also a partner relationship between the state and the civil sector. Dear People's MPs, given the scope of this law and the solutions in this law, I have read this introductory presentation, and of course in the discussion that follows, I will be free to then orally explain what is potentially controversial or, in the end, what we see is not adequately done in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7525	I thank Mr. Secretary. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will present at this point Sasa Dujovic, and the LDP parliamentary group representative will be Vesna Pesic. Do the rapporteurs of the committees, the Committee on Justice and the Administration and the Legislative Committee want a word? No, I don't. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. I asked if the representatives wanted a word, and she was authorized for your group at this point. You haven't answered? All right. Mrs. Vesna Pesic, please. He'll be in touch later. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7526	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs and MPs, Mr Minister, the LDP must indeed welcome the adoption of this law, because the NGO, as you know, has been insisting since 2002 not to be in the so-called. The wild state, rather than bringing one for us, for the LDP, is fundamental law, because this law regulates one of the basics, not to say both basic human rights and civil law, which is the right to association. As everyone knows, we've had one wild state all this time, because these two laws that allow citizens to join were the laws of the SFRY. They were the law on associations and the law on social organisations, which were neither in shape, nor in content, nor according to the non-governmental sector, in a modern sense, that means in a democratic society. It is impossible to imagine the development of a democratic society and a democratic culture without a single civil society which, unfortunately, has been attacked all along since the 1990s, persecuted as a traitorous, internationally free citizen can never be with his rights and freedoms drowned in any collective, but stands first in human rights and controls the state because there is no state. Whether it is authoritarian or more democratic or less democratic, but there is no state that does not want to violate human rights and spread its power in a non-transparent way. So without this, what we call the NGO, there is no way of developing a democratic society. The LDP has repeatedly pointed out and asked, whenever we talked about European affairs, to pass this law and we have insisted and supported many of our co-workers in NGOs. We as a party, and now in parliament, have a very good co-operation with the NGO sector, we get their models of the law, we talk to them, we accept their suggestions, because these are very good sources to make the law really right, not with the intervention of a state that needs to reduce the importance of the law when it comes to citizens' interests. Without one vibrating society, where you have the freedom to associate citizens with their interests, about public affairs, about meeting certain needs, there is no way to achieve other general objectives of society. That's why we welcome, I repeat, this law, we will vote for it. We have to say that we haven't even put amendments to this law, we haven't seen any major failures. Of course, that some members may be differently formulated, but all in all we think is that this law is written quite well. In addition, the NGO itself, as we know, has worked very much together to pass this law, so we have to say that this law is a very good framework for doing business in the NGO sector. Then, what was a painful point is being arranged, which is funding. I have to say, it's very good that we allow citizens to be joined without registration. I think it's a big step forward, because right at that moment, it shows that freedom of association. Could we ever hear of Fifth Park? It doesn't have to apply, it's called a civil partner here, but citizens can round the most elementary of their goals to join together and to realize their interests. Of course, I must also underline that our country has suffered a number of criticisms that this law has not been passed and is very often highlighted by the Council of Europe, and now in the latest report of the European Commission it is relocated to our country that there is no law on the association of citizens, to legalize so-called. The third sector, the NGO sector, as the main controller of the state, the achievement of freedoms and rights and various other interests and the need of citizens. Without such a society of democracy, there is no and finally, I point out again, that such a law has been passed. In addition, you certainly know, and therefore NGOs were criticised for getting international funds first and for starting to realise certain projects, which helped to reform society and that some topics, especially in the 1990s, were very important, which meant establishing peace, peaceful resolution of conflict, political culture, protection of rights, etc., all of which were done by NGOs with the help of international funds. I'm going to say something after that about funding, which I don't think maybe about other laws is well enough solved when it comes to NGOs. What concerns us, as always, is how much this law will be realized, how much it will really be applied, whether the government will really abide by this law. Because, as we know, the law is passed, and then after that, we have some kind of harassment of NGOs or someone else, if he's critical of the government, and then he can come back into the situation to experience the negative consequences when he's being treated critically, which is the basis of civil society. We have also reviewed the amendments of other parliamentary groups and we have seen that some of the objections in our opinion are unfounded. If the association of citizens is a fundamental right, there is no reason to ask the state to behave restrictively when it comes to the number of those who have the right to team up. If we take that both legal and sociologically considered to be a group of three, there's no reason for the state to impose any number of free association of citizens, organisations and associations, someone suggested number 30, some number 20, that there's no reason for the state to interfere at all with what number one association will have, especially what it can register. It is enough for the three to join together to turn down the music or to influence the municipality to protect someone’s right and act in the interest of their own interests. I'd also like to say that it's also very important, and that it may be a lack of understanding, which the law has allowed to join children, those who are not adult. But when it comes to the rights of the child, children have, and youth, rights and under 18 years of age to join together, and also those of 15 are already entitled to work and there is no reason to wait for the adulthood to join together. In addition, we have signed certain international conventions, let's say, when it comes to the student parliament, where students learn from small legs about democracy, association and fighting for their interests, and young people have their own interests. I think it's only commendable that this is possible by law, not as I've seen some fellow MPs ask to limit the fact that children don't have the right to team up. I would finally point out, as another positive thing, which is that it is good and in accordance with the Constitution, in Articles 48 and 49, that it is good that this right can be misused in an unconstitutional way by spreading hate, and it has been very much lately. There is a lot of initiative to ban certain extremist and fascist organisations, since the Constitution does not allow such behaviour. I think this is in line with international norms and I would always stand up to defend this if this right, in the case of such behaviour and in accordance with the law, could be banned. I would like to ask some more questions now, because the research that I have consulted, and a number of surveys have been carried out on citizens' associations, I have to say, and the citizens know it well, that our citizen is very powerless, can't realise his interests and his rights, that the government in every situation is stronger than the citizen, that even when he joins, he can't achieve those goals. Our citizen is one of the most indisputable citizens, who and when they join together and try to achieve their goals with common forces can't really do that, because they are untransparent powers or uncontrollable power or failure to execute judgment, and the various other pressures that citizens feel, make it impossible for them to achieve some of their goals. It's enough to come from the most banal things, when the music opens, the cafes, when the citizens join together, then they get answers that it's the mafia, that they'll kill their children, if there's any interest in suffering certain consequences. In addition, the public sometimes gets the impression that it is self-government, and when citizens join together in terms of achieving their rights that it is some self-government socialism, etc. There are a number of such indications that our citizens don't join together even when it comes to local self-government, they don't even know what they're doing in the city, they have no idea how decisions are made in local self-government. I think this law should also play a role in encouraging our citizens to be able to join each other in every way possible. Of course, it is good that the law on the financing of NGOs is also taking part in the government's commitment to finance associations and their projects contributing to these objectives. With this in mind, in order to encourage and strengthen citizens to join and achieve their goals, I think there is one problem in other laws, I would like to point out to the minister that the donations they receive are imposed on one tax of 5%. It's indiscriminately applied. So when an NGO resents the authorities or is too critical, then the tax administration comes in and says, "Please, you haven't paid for projects back three years, pay for all projects 5%." In the meantime, NGOs don't pay that tax, because their donors don't accept when they give a donation that you can pay taxes. Why would they pay 5% of the taxes on a donation? It is then non-discriminatoryly applied if an NGO gets in the way of the authorities. So, it should be arranged, for all donations, that 5% must be abolished, not non-discriminatoryly applied. I would point to another problem, which I would ask as a question to Minister Markovic, which I have noticed when it comes to property, in Articles 73, 74 and 75, where the assets of former social organisations and associations are mentioned. For all these years of not passing this law, all the time in the 1990s, all the time after two thousand years, you know that NGOs were practically on the free market when it comes to space, that they had to pay rent and today they have to pay rent. They have no discount when renting rooms or any status that they can get at any more favourable price of the room, while these social organisations and associations, according to the old law, which were practically some para-state organizations, which had huge assets, for all this time not only did they pay nothing, but they rented space. Here, to name one organization, it's a once-in-a-lifetime association, and now there's a, uh, SOKOJ, the Association of composers. They have a huge building in Misharska No. 11 and they're betraying it at the same time. Just take the Auto-Moto Alliance, which is the state of the country, is huge property. The Association of Librarians in France 7, famously, which has a restaurant downstairs. It is not clear to me that you have settled it as a fair solution that now this property, the Auto-Moto Alliance and those big ones, which really have a huge property, make it a state property, property of the Republic of Serbia, and that it is given at different levels to manage local self-government, and then it gives to use that same organization to continue its activities. Now I ask you a question, you say that they can't get worse conditions than they had before, if they didn't pay who they didn't, so they stay in one privileged position that they still don't pay. For example, I, the founder of the Anti-War Action Centre, the first peace organisation in Serbia, founded in 1991 when wars began, we all pay as well as other organisations, the rent is paid, and these para-state organisations remain in the status they were in, or not to pay. It seems to me that this discrimination between the old organizations and these new ones, without which practically some of the laws that were unimaginable to us, that is to say, that there was no non-governmental sector -- would you ever work out the Law on Free Information for citizens? On their shoulders, the whole law was practically brought forth by NGOs, and other laws. So I ask the question, can we claim that there is still some discrimination, I don't know why and why, so that they can have a more favourable position than other organisations that have been in this wild position so far and have not been regulated, and thanks to this law are regulated. I repeat, the LDP expresses its satisfaction that we are passing this law and, of course, expresses the great dissatisfaction of the NGO sector which has been mutilated, humiliated, insulted, called traitors, mercenaries, etc. They have suffered great pressures, they have been mortified all these years, and because this law has waited so long, it has led to our country being underreputable that there is no solution to the association of citizens, this fundamental right -- it means great satisfaction and dissatisfaction that it has not been done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7527	I thank Mrs. Pesic. Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7528	I thank the MP Vesni Pesic for this presentation, because we obviously share the same feeling and attitude towards the functioning of the NGO sector. The issue of property was the most difficult issue in solving when we were doing this law, because the previous bill predicted that everything would go to state property and then many NGOs would object to it because they had various immovableities that they were using, which were given to them by their members, legates, etc. I came up with an idea, let's see some principle of justice, but it's impossible for 35,000 different subjects to find something that would be justly complete. It may be that someone will remain a little more privileged with such a solution, but it was much more important that the Alliance of the Blind, which has a building in Prince Michael, could not be expelled. We're so free to weigh. I agree with you that we have those who will do better in that, but somehow the most important thing was because we have an alliance of mothers who care for children with special needs, etc., it's much more important that units of local self-government don't come to the opportunity to go through public bidding or bidding to assign that property. Because I'm sure none of these alliances could compete with rich people to retain the right to use these attractive immovableities, especially those found in Belgrade. So, I say the hardest, most delicate question is this mentioned by Mrs. Pesic. The fact is that there are organizations such as the Auto-Moto Alliance and some that have exercised public authority and therefore acquired enormous property, but if nothing, at least this acquired by public authority is now being transferred to state property. Certain provisions of the law will give an opportunity to intervene in this direction, which are primarily provisions concerning what can and cannot be used, or which activity can be done in the function of carrying out the work of that association. So it seems to me that the lease will come under certain supervision and will probably be sanctioned. It's hard for me to say in advance now, but you're absolutely right -- there's going to be an unequal position here, but we're interested in giving a solution that will preserve those most vulnerable, like the Alliance of the Blind, which has the same thing in the city center, and that would be, to some different solution, thrown out on the street. I agree with you, someone is in a better position, someone in a slightly worse position, it's hard to find justice for all tens of thousands of organizations, or associations that used to be social organisations, if they reregister become citizens' associations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7529	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word came first from Parliament Group President Balint Pastor and then from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7530	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Union of Duchy Hungarians will, of course, support the bill of association. It is very important to us that this bill finally arrived on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the development of a society is an indication of how the state treats the NGO sector, how the state treats citizens' associations. We all know that today's laws that regulate this area come from a long time ago. I would remind you that the Law on Social Organisations and Associations of Citizens comes from 1982, was published in "The Official Messenger of the Socialist Republic of Serbia", 1982, and the Federal Law on the Association of Citizens in Association, Social Organisations and Political Organizations, established for the Territories of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, came from 1990. So it was high time that the area of functioning and functioning of the Association of Citizens was managed in a modern way, and it is very important for us that the National Assembly vote this law in a few days. I also have to say that in recent years we have had opportunities to see more versions of this law. One version was published in July last year, and another version arrived in the assembly procedure several months ago. So this law was also to be passed years ago, but what matters now is what is to be adopted. But I didn't say this because I would just point out that there were more versions of this draft, but I brought this up because we think that some of the solutions are worsened in this draft law compared to the previous versions of this bill, and I'm going to point that out, and I'm also going to point out that we have submitted specifically eight amendments to this bill. I would like to tell the Minister that we have submitted these amendments on good faith. We know that amendments can be submitted with more motive. The amendment can only be submitted for the sake of having the opportunity to talk about some things, some visions. The amendment can be submitted for reasons to improve certain legal solutions. Of course it's legitimate for both of us, of course it's legal for both of us, but we have submitted these amendments solely for the reasons of our desire to improve the basic text. I also want to say that these amendments are not only amendments to the People's MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, but we organised exactly a year ago a public debate within the Hungarian national community in Vojvodina. There we have called on dozens of associations of citizens of the duchy Hungarians and we have given them the opportunity to say, to make their views about the previous draft law on citizens' associations, and we have observed these proposals, formulate in the form of amendments, and I hope that these amendments will be adopted either at the government's session or in the voting day. When I said earlier that there were several versions of the draft of this law and that certain provisions were worsened compared to the previous draft, then I thought first of all about the solution in Article 41. The proposal, which says the Republic of Serbia is the recipient of the property of the association of citizens, and in the previous version of the bill, the title above this member was - units of local self-government as recipients of the property of the association of citizens. I don't know why we're going back to centralization. Of course, I understand as a lawyer that this may be the same, since the units of local self-government will have the right to use over the property of the citizens' association if the association of citizens ceases and there is no other legal successor, but since Serbia is one highly centralised state and today, and since we have not yet passed a law on public property, and since local self-government, municipalities and cities do not have their own property, and they do not have the powers they should have, I think this is one bad gesture, one bad signal, that this solution from the previous version of the draft is made worse and that the title says that the Republic of Serbia is the recipient of property, not the units of local self-government. No matter what the solution is, in the end, the same or very similar, I think that this is one bad signal and that this is not how it should have been arranged in this version of the bill. We have not submitted an amendment to this article. The second solution that is worse than the solution from the previous version of the law is the solution set out in Article 64. It's a bill of law. Before that, I must say that we welcome an absolute solution from Article 26, which says that the body of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina runs an association register based on the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, but we do not understand why it does not say in Article 64 that the supervision of the work of the association with the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is carried out by the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which was in the previous version of the bill. It's also a very bad signal. Instead of confirming the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina as soon as possible, instead of doing something to regionalise the state, not only do we not do so, not only is it not known when the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina will be confirmed in the Republic Assembly, but certain solutions that were provided for not only in the previous version of the draft association law are deleted, but also the solutions provided for by the Law establishing certain competences of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina from 2002 or from the Omnibus Law are deleted. This is simply not clear and we don't see a reason for centralization. We believe that this solution from the previous version of the draft should stand in the bill. We have also submitted an amendment on this, and we hope that that provision, which was provided for in the previous version of the draft, will be returned to the text that the National Assembly will adopt in the voting day and that the Authority of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina will have the right to oversee the work of those associations established in the territory of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. We also do not understand why the motionor or government and the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government wants to delete Article 60(2). Law establishing certain responsibilities of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Why, instead of giving more serious jurisdiction to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, instead of confirming the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, we also erase those powers that have been functioning since 2002, those solutions that function thanks to the law adopted in this high house? So we can't welcome this kind of centralization and we hope that this amendment will be adopted. When we talk about some more concrete members of the bill, then I would like to draw Mr. Minister's attention to Article 20. Proposal for a law on associations that says - any member of the association may initiate proceedings before the competent municipal court, etc. You know very well, Mr. Minister, that before this point we had a set of judicial laws at the National Assembly session and that since 1 January 2010, there will be no municipal courts, and you had to consider this and please correct this and give the amendment to Article 20, because this article would be inapplicable if it remained in this form. You have a legal opportunity to make an amendment to this article. I hope this law is passed in years, that it will be applied for many years It would not be good to change just because the jurisdiction of the municipal court, which will not exist for a little more than a year. When we talk about amendments, I would take advantage of the possibility to point out briefly what amendments we have submitted to this proposal for a law on associations. I would like to appeal from this place to Minister Markovic to adopt, or to support the adoption of these amendments. It's about three groups of amendments. One group of amendments refers to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, to Article 64 and to the fact that the Ministry wants to abolish certain responsibilities under the Omnibus Law of the AP Vojvodina. That's what I was talking about earlier, and I don't want to say it again. I hope this amendment of ours will be adopted. The second group of amendments shall apply to Article 13. Proposal for a law governing the name of the Association of Citizens. It is very good that the legislator had in mind the fact that this is a multinational state and that members of national minorities have a highly developed sector of NGOs, and that these citizens of the Republic of Serbia will want to join together and establish some associations of citizens. It is very good that the possibility of the name of the association, if provided for in the Statute, can also be found in the language and letter of the national minority. We believe that this solution from the bill should be specified. We have proposed an amendment to Article 13 that regulates this issue in more comprehensive ways. In fact, if the law were adopted in this form, that is, this Article 13 as proposed, then there would be a obligation to translate the name of these associations into Serbian and to write the same Cyrillic letter, without exception, and this would result in the existence of confusing, and in some cases, unserious names of some associations, and for this technical reason we propose the adoption of this amendment. We, in the light of our amendment, have made a concrete proposal for such a confusing name of the association, if this amendment were not adopted. As regards the third group of our amendments, they relate to improving the conditions of the operation of the Association of Citizens or of the NGO sector. In fact, if we agree that the development of the NGO sector is an indicator of the development of a single society, or a single state, then we think that we need to do everything to make these associations function as easily as possible. It should do everything possible for them to face as little administrative difficulties as possible, on the one hand, and on the other hand it should do everything in our power to make it easier for the non-governmental sector to function financially. For this very reason, we have submitted a group of amendments. One amendment applies to Article 33. We propose a new Article 33a, which would read: "At the request of the representatives of the association, a copy of the register shall be issued within 15 days of the day of submission." This is a very practical question. In fact, citizens' associations participate in various competitions both in the country and abroad. In these competitions they must always apply a copy of the register that cannot be more than a month old or depends on a concrete competition. They are very often not able to participate in certain competitions because the Ministry is temporarily not issuing a copy of the register and therefore we believe it is necessary to set a time limit within which the Ministry, or the competent authority of the register, should issue a register on the registration of a particular association. Our second amendment refers to the release of a copy of the register being released from payment of the Republic's administrative fee. We believe that this is a great burden on citizens' associations, and on the other hand does not mean a more serious income for the state of Serbia, and therefore we believe that it is necessary to make it easier for the non-governmental sector to operate, citizens' associations, and that they should be freed from paying the Republic's administrative tax. The third amendment concerns the release of the citizens' association from inheritance tax and a 2.5% gift. We all know very well that citizens' associations function in very difficult conditions, that they can perform their activities thanks to various projects, various competitions. The funds they receive are very often insufficient to implement certain projects. That is why we believe that it is necessary to free citizens' associations from paying inheritance and gift taxes. This is a kind of tax, or tax form that does not mean much to the state, but the exemption from paying this tax would mean a lot to citizens' associations. The SVM believes it is necessary to meet with citizens' associations. This is usually one solution that we didn't invent, this was proposed in that public debate that we held over a year ago and the representatives of the Citizens' Association asked us to propose this amendment and to do everything in the interest of this amendment being adopted. In the end, I'd like to point out another fact in Article 72. We did not want to submit an amendment to this article, but we really do not understand why in the re-registration process, i.e. in the process of harmonising the functioning of the association with the new solutions set out in this law, the statute of association should be submitted in three copies. If we go to E or I administration and if we want to make the state administration modern, then we really don't understand why the statute should be filed in three copies, why the Ministry is unable to photocopy this statute in three copies or in as many copies as necessary. It's a burden for the citizens' association. In the end, I would like to point out another fact that is not related to this proposal for the Association Law, but is related to changes in the tax system of the Republic of Serbia. Surely you know, Mr. Minister, that in some countries, for example in Hungary, there is a possibility that 1% of their income tax is allocated to various associations of citizens. We believe that this possibility should also be given to our citizens. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the Law on Income Tax, but I hope that the Ministry is considering this possibility and that this possibility will be considered when amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. This would also mean a great deal for the non-governmental sector, on the one hand, and also for citizens who would be able to finance, i.e. to assist the work of certain NGOs, so this would be a modern solution which I hope the Republic of Serbia will adopt. Once again, we will vote in favour of this bill because it is modern, because it certainly needs to change the anachrons of regulations that currently regulate this area. The support of this law is not even conditioned by the simplest adoption of our amendments, but we believe that it is in the interest of both the non-governmental sector and the Parliament and the Government that these amendments are adopted, so I hope that this will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7531	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Nikolic, on behalf of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7532	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, I would like to begin by commending this practice that we had with Minister Markovic, that as a parliamentary group we had the opportunity to hold a conversation with the minister and resolve some misunderstandings about this law within the parliamentary group. This is unfortunately not a practice when it comes to many important laws, especially when it comes to budget rebalance or budget, or laws concerning the economic and financial lives of our country. Then there are no ministers at the consultations, nor are they willing to participate in the debate in the right way, that when some MPs open these particular problems to get answers on the spot from the competent authorities, or the competent ministers, which is different in this case. The minister is truly cooperative and actively involved in this debate. I don't think there's a parliamentary group in this debate today that's going to argue that this law is not necessary. Simply, this law should have been passed before. It is only today on the agenda and certainly when you have an unsettled area, which is the functioning of the Association of Citizens, or the NGO sector, to simply impose the need to get a certain legal framework that will regulate this activity in the best possible way. The minister said that so far, this legal framework has been quite charred and unhomotive and that by this law, the law on associations of citizens, we are in a position to arrange this sphere of social life in the best possible way. This is, among other things, our obligation here is also highlighted, according to the EU, in the process of European integration. It's pointed out again here, but I want to underline one fact that I'm proud of. I think that as MPs we should all be proud and that because of this Parliament's dignity, we should always draw attention that we were a democratic state in the 19th century, and in the early 20th century, and that then our colleagues, our ancestors sitting in the National Assembly, were also discussing these topics and passing laws that were very advanced and regulated this area. It is said here that for the first time, the Assembly of the Association of Citizens, the area was regulated by the 1869 Constitution, so 140 years ago, and that we had the Law on Choirs and Associations of Citizens, which was adopted in 1881. I say this for the simple reason that very often we can inspire, when we need to edit certain areas, look in our own legislation and in the own democratic values that this country had. Many MPs tend to deny this fact and to watch only how to meet some European standards. This is also the law, and this is our legislation that we had 130, 140 years ago, in the most picturesque way possible, and that we belonged to Europe and that we were a European state centuries ago and a half ago. Therefore, it is not disputed that this law is necessary, that it should be put into the assembly procedure and that this matter should be regulated, but there are here and some controversial things that I will now open, and later MPs and MPs, or colleagues from the DSS, also in their discussions and about the amendments. There is absolutely nothing controversial about the way we organize that is in accordance with our Constitution. What's also a good thing is that the Association of Citizens can also be established in a way that does not have to be entered into the register and that the organization is then subject to the rules on civil partnership. What is defiance or should I say the problems we should discuss, the first one that concerns this particular requirement is the register. The Ministry of State Administration is the authority responsible for registering, or keeping a register, but the law says it was left to the ministry that, depending on the assessment of the situation in the area, it organises a way of keeping a register of the association for the territory of the Republic of Serbia without autonomous provinces. I'm asking a question - why? The principle of government deconcentration, decentralisation of government cannot be applied in this area as well. The state of the sea and the natural need for the state to have one central register, where it will be registered under the same conditions, with the same rights, the same obligations, otherwise the law guarantees that right and obligations to all organisations, will also be in one single register. Why would there be a register in the Ministry that will register NGOs from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and those NGOs or those associations of citizens from the territory of the Autonomous province will register in the Autonomous province of Vojvodina? It's okay for the Ministry to give jurisdiction that you can register in the authorities of both the Autonomous province and the authorities of local self-government, but the register should be unique, should be comprehensive so that the state can monitor. This can also produce certain practical problems. I will read from the explanation a paragraph that says that - doing the business of keeping the register of the association enables the competent regional authority to "acquaint itself" with associations based on the territory of the province, with their objectives, work, founders and programmes, and that, through the application of the provisions on funding of public-interest programmes allocated and from the Autonomous Region budget, it affects the development of this area. Why would the province authority be familiar with the activities, objectives and programmes of NGOs only from the territory of the autonomous province? We will have an NGO or we may already have an NGO registered in Valjevo, Šapco, Nis, who wants to protect the right or educate farmers, that is an interesting topic for the people of Vojvodina, and wants to participate in its programmes for funding from the province's authority, but we see that the province's body has only the obligation to meet the programmes and activities of NGOs registered in the territory of the autonomous province. We will potentially have the privileged status of NGOs, i.e. citizens' associations that will register in the territory of the autonomous province. I want to remind you that I absolutely don't understand and I don't understand that we don't have a central registry. I don't think that's good, because for NGOs registered in the autonomous province, the competent ministry only keeps records. The proposal of the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina proposed that Vojvodina is a European region. I guess that's how it's going to be defined or by the proposal's intention is defined, so with that, we can have a process of newly founded NGOs in that context, and the state won't have a real insight into the state of things. When we talk about it, I think we should discuss it. What is of course not controversial and what is in line with the conventions on the rights of the child, that also children who are 14 years of age have the right to establish associations, along with the certified signature of a legal representative, I think this law should work out some items related to abuses, but, as I said, both colleagues and colleagues from the DSS will talk more about in principle. What it is is cancer-earth relations between the state and NGOs, or associations of citizens, is funding. Of course, this law cannot regulate itself, he predicted in one general form that NGOs, i.e. citizens' associations, can compete for funds and for ministries, with the Government, in the Autonomous province and local self-government, but it is absolutely non-transparent how much money we spend for these purposes. So, you from this budget that we had about 15 days ago, 20 days ago, we absolutely can't get a play, and I'm convinced we can't get an exact answer from the finance minister about the funds that the state gives to the NGO. Of course we are to support good programs and we are absolutely for it, but we simply have to have insight into those funds. Here's the question, I guess the minister doesn't know that, but I'm going to ask the finance minister if we spent 20 million, 30 million, 52 million, 70 million in funding this year. I'd like to get an answer as to how much funds we've allocated. This is an advance announcement that when it comes to this assembly, in December or at the end of December, the budget comes, that we will focus very seriously on this topic because it opens up a space for the abuse of these funds. So if these funds are covered up and we don't have the insights given to certain associations of citizens, then first of all, there's room for a lot of resources to be given that this congregation doesn't know that, but then the question is, why is it hiding? It's not a bit of an example that we're as a state or as a competent ministry that has been given funds to some NGOs, which I believe are at the edge of what this law forbids, which is protecting the territorial integrity of the state. I think that's what we're gonna talk about today. Funding the NGO sector, i.e. citizens' associations, is a problem, too. I would support the idea that my predecessor here said, which, of course, this law cannot regulate, which is that in the direction of speeding up the NGO sector, that is, the activities of the citizens' association, by all means, see that in the next period of the Citizens' Income Act, we find space, because it is a practice in some other countries, and in my opinion a good bang, to single out one percent, to create the possibility that one percent of the citizens' income can be singled out. I think that this would also disburse the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and make NGOs themselves more active on this resource-finding plan, which is a burning problem. So DSS MPs will report on the principle debate, as well as on the amendments today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7533	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. Excuse me, MP, the minister wants a word. Here you go, Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7534	Here's a very short one, about the presentation of a distinguished colleague, Nikolic, and before that, Mr. Pastor, so I just see the topic is that, let's not forget it, the question of enrolment in the register. It was really a big issue how to organize the keeping of a register. I admit, there are big dilemmas and there are obviously dilemmas here and we have different thoughts. Mr. Pastor and a large number of MPs and parties operating in Vojvodina believed that the register of associations from the territory of the AP Vojvodina is being conducted in the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, there is also an opinion, which I am very well representing, that this register should be run as we have suggested, and this is my opinion based again on the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on State Administration. I think the solution that we've offered is a solution that is optimal at this point, in accordance with our regulations, so fully respecting the need to decentralize certain activities, so I just want to do it again, what we did, which is our idea. Our idea is, therefore, that the register of the association that has its headquarters is run by the AP Vojvodina's competent authority, but as a trusted business of the state administration, not as an original business, as a trusted business of the state administration. Accordingly, the Ministry keeps track of all that the competent authority of the Autonomous province, in particular in this case only Vojvodina, in accordance with the Constitution, knows that Kosovo and Metohija will be subsequently resolved, and the content, way, registration of the register is again determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the minister, of the register that is being conducted in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's the third attitude. I understand that neither Mr. Pastor on his part is satisfied, Mr. Nikolic, you have differing views, but I think that this is some measure, on the one hand, to respect the process of decentralisation, the need to further strengthen autonomy, on the other hand, this is again a measure that ensures the uniqueness of conducting one procedure on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. So, we've defined ourselves for this approach, we're prepared to suffer criticism, of course in accordance with your views, but, well, we thought that this provided unique organ treatment, on the one hand, single surveillance, administrative oversight, that's what I wanted to say, and otherwise I'm going to ask Mr. Pastor specifically about all these amendments to discuss it one more time. When it comes to surveillance that's supposed to be so-called. Omnibus Law, we were here and you and me, and I don't remember if it was Mr. Pastor when we adopted it, it's the law of labor surveillance. That surveillance doesn't exist right now. There's no telling what the law of labor surveillance is. We know inspection supervision, according to the State Administration Act. So we are in accordance with the Law on State Administration, in accordance with the Constitution, because the Constitution explicitly states that this is also the express jurisdiction of the Republic, the provision of freedom of association of citizens, I think it is Article 96. The Constitution, therefore, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Law of the State Administration, we kept surveillance and gave this as a confidential business, because this is nevertheless the responsibility of the Government and the responsibility of the Ministry. There is no dilemma that the position will be equal to all entities, regardless of whether they are in the AP Vojvodina, will be in the AP of Kosovo tomorrow or on the territory of the Republic of Serbia without provinces. So everyone will have absolutely the same treatment, because the content of the register is prescribed by the minister and the content of the register will be absolutely the same. The issue of transparency of funds is a great question, and Mr. Pastor and Mr. Nikolic are in fact the principles of what follows us after this, indeed the issue of funding NGOs is an open issue. What we could do in the framework of our ministry's work is prescribe the obligation of a budget allocation competition, whether it's done by the government, whether it's done by the ministry. The obligation to compete, and now I'm saying, further work will probably be done through the laws that some other ministries are responsible for, I suppose, the Ministry of Finance, as well as for all the tax reliefs that have been mentioned, etc. So, that's some little explanation. I'm not saying that any of the previous speakers are wrong, but that you understand this attitude that we represent and think is correct, that it is optimal at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7535	The word is by MP Sladjan Mijaljević, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. After that, MP Sasa Dujovic, then National MP Natasa Vukovic, followed by MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and MP Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7536	Dear Presidency, People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I really admire you on the one hand, and on the other hand I feel sorry for you, and I feel sorry for you. Where I feel sorry for you, I can only assume and see how much pressure you've suffered to have one such bill come into the assembly procedure and come before the MPs, and on the other hand, I admire you again that you had the courage to bring us a bill like this and bring it here at all and present it to us. Of course, we from the SRS, as well as others from the opposition, have very sharp criticism of this law. This bill leads to a confusing situation and a very confusing environment. We see that the desire of this future law was to please every organization that had the intention of registering in one way or another in some parent law, so it failed. Then you tried to get through that list of wishes to come up with such a solution to be for every place. But to me, this bill looks a little bit like a little legal Frankenstein. If you adopt amendments to this law, you will perform several fine operations, functional and plastic, to make it look a little nicer. On the one hand, this law can be good and it is necessary, we are in order to get to it because it is necessary. In all those organizations, associations, let's say, people who are involved in recreational sports, weaving associations, fencing, mountaineering, climbers and the like, who can't register through the parent law or who don't want to register through the parent law, because usually the parent laws in these areas prescribe competition, sports and other things, they just want to do recreationally. So this law is more than favourable. However, the draft law has reduced the internal structure of the association to one minor funny minimum. You've given that the association can only have three members and you've brought the bodies of the association to the assembly and to the representative, and that should be something like a pandan for the president of the association. How are you going to complete with three members some of the bodies needed for the minimum functioning of the association? This previous law, which allowed ten people to register the association, was a minimum. You had a congregation, you had three members, a board of directors, a board of directors. From the board of directors or from the assembly, you could also choose the president, the secretary, etc. Now with three members, in fact, you don't have a supervisory board, because members of the Supervisory Board can't be members of any other body. You'll have some representative representing the association and you'll have these other two members who will be his deputies, secretaries or something. We can see there are no members here. For example, Article 2(2) lists a wide list of associations that can be registered here. We have provided for our amendments to erase this whole attitude. The law refers to "the political organisations, trade unions, associations organised to carry out certain activities in order to obtain profits, sports organisations and associations, churches and religious communities, spontaneous temporary connections between several persons and other associations whose work is governed by special law", and to which the provisions of this law are applied accordingly in matters which are not governed by this special law. You've built a small fence here, and you've tried to protect yourself or your future colleague who will sit in your seat, even to protect this law, because you've called to ask for some kind of parent law after all. However, all of those associations that are given any possibility to register, that they exist, will take advantage of it in as little scope as possible. Why, if I could have three members, would I go and collect like-minded people if I had 30, 50, 300, 3,000 to register? So, I'm gonna use the smallest legal minimum and register with three members, and if anyone joins me afterwards, joins me, and if he doesn't join me, it doesn't matter at all. It is more than funny that organizations such as political parties, trade unions, church organizations, or churches and religious communities, as they are already called or new religious movements, and we know them as religious sects, register with only three members. In this economic situation in which Serbia is situated, I highly doubt that almost every family that has three members will run to register in a union, so as not to in any way become a legal person and thus increase its budget. Then, you have religious organizations, you said churches and religious organizations here, and on the one hand, it seems to me that you took the role of the younger brother of Mr. Jesus Christ, so you decided to register churches through this law, even though there is a parent law. Many of these organizations did not go through this parent law, but not because someone did not want to register them, but because someone was not allowed to register them, because they had so much totalitarianity and destruction in their work that, with all the desire and will that some people had sitting in that ministry, they did not have the courage to register them. Of course, they're now trying through this law, like ordinary associations or some kind of mask association, to register. I'm just going to do one little example, one digression, as far as these organizations are concerned. The EU has passed several resolutions on sects or sect-type organisations. I've held in my hand a resolution on sects since 29 February 1996. I will only read to you the two positions they are called on, ultimately give certain legal solutions and call on Member States, as well as those which are candidates or want to join the EU, to respect those laws. He says: "c) considering that the activities of groups, sects or sects of similar sects represent a phenomenon that is constantly expanding and which can be seen in different forms throughout the world; d) believing that, on the contrary, certain sects that, as parts of an international network, operate in the EU, carry on illegal and criminal activities, and are constantly violating human rights and dealing with abuse, sexual abuse, taking away freedom, human trafficking, inciting aggressive behaviour, spreading racist opinions, tax fraud, illegal trafficking of capital, trafficking of arms and drugs, violations of labour rights and illegal drug practice". Of course, they make certain recommendations. I will read to you only one of these nine recommendations, which is the recommendation four: "Ask the governments of the Member States not to grant the automatic status of the religious community, and that in the case of sects involved in illegal and criminal activities, they examine the possibility of taking away the status of the religious community, which brings tax relief and certain legal protection. "I just said that many of these cult-type organizations use masks. They will present themselves as any association, and in fact they will spread something that will certainly not be written in their statutes. Let's say, here's an example. Yesterday, a blood test was organised in the Serbian Parliament, whether latent to sugar or not, is at risk greater or lower. I believe those people didn't even know what they were doing. Yesterday, they shared this brochure in the middle of the Serbian Parliament. This brochure recommends a cookie that is filled with more fillings, coconuts, lemons, apples and I don't know what, and then a recommendation for a nice life, for a quieter and more harmonious life and so forth. It all comes down to yoga, especially on page three. It's about pranayogi. It's a Jogistic discipline of yoga as a religious course of Hindu religion. Look, no other religious organization here traditionally took advantage of that possibility to make brochures like this and to frame us for such teachings. But one of them who cares, and who, for example, uses the mask around vegetarianism, healthy nutrition and similar things, will certainly take advantage of this possibility of three members that there is an association and that, in this mask, advertises themselves throughout the country of Serbia, of course, to have as many members as possible and so on. I'm just talking about how this law, as much as you've had, is what I feel sorry for and feel sorry for you, good desire and intention to satisfy as much of all the interested currents, associations, citizens, parties, etc. It leads us to create a very confusing environment and a possibility where many organizations will try to take advantage of this great freedom to spread their various teachings. So I can't imagine that the union can have three members, that a religious organization can have three members, that a political party can have three members. And that three members -- a 14-year-old child, maybe two 14-year-olds and one 18-year-old person. You're building yourself up here, these underage faces will be able to be founders with the signature of a parent or a parent, etc. But again, we're talking about a confusing environment. This way, let me put it in the jargon, you get those kids into these kinds of organizations. First of all, they're not mature, they haven't finished their maturation, they're 14-15 years old, they barely left primary school. Where they come from knowledge, first someone economically and legally, that they can be members and founders of an association of citizens. Furthermore, you are here, which should be threatened with certain violations of some very serious punishments, with fines. These fines range up to 10,000 to 400,000 dinars. Imagine, some youth, some band, so I can call it either a vocal soloist composition of three members, two guitars and drums, make it a citizens' association. Those who have committed a certain offence, and yet the economic situation in the country is so difficult for anyone to pay a fine of 400,000 dinars. These kids commit some kind of offence and get an inspection, see this, make a certain record, a certain conclusion, a certain verdict, and then Mom and Dad get a call to a judge for violations or something like that to pay a fine of 400,000 dinars. I think this part about two minors being able to be the founders of the Citizens' Association is absolutely excessive, unnecessary and more confusing, and there will be many abuses, and primarily through this confusion that creates such solutions will lead to many people, uglyly deceived, paying very serious penalties for what they have done. Of course, through the amendments we have offered a new legal solution. We have asked seven members of the Association Act to be deleted from this law, and for those seven members who are important for foreign associations to work a little further, to expand a little bit and to register that side of the association under some other more serious law. They're strangers who come here after all. I explained through religious communities that all masks are used. Yesterday we had a police minister here who spoke about terrorism, so we know that many of the terrorist organizations are using different masks and they have no problem coming to Serbia, bringing money and finding a full-time citizen who will be president or representative of that association. They're going to tell some of their stories in public, and they're actually going to do the job they came for. I believe that through this law on foreigners, NGOs coming from abroad here, it must be resolved in more detail, although there are other laws, criminal law, terrorism law, money laundering, etc., certain provisions and certain members. I believe that in this law on foreigners it must all stand much more decadently, with much more things seen, and what could happen in some perspective and who could abuse all and in what way a certain position and a certain legal status that this state provides for it. If we leave a small space for anyone, they'll use it. We make laws, and we have to predict situations. We must not momentarily allow such a situation so that someone can take advantage of, firstly, in their ignorance of being hurt, or someone who has a bad intention of taking advantage of that possibility and carrying out that bad intention. You have, on the other hand, associations that work directly against this state. In Article 3(2), you listed several very serious actions that should allegedly be prevented by this law or should be prevented by some laws that already exist. I will quote this: "The objectives and functioning of the association cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, the violation of guaranteed human or minority rights or by causing and encouraging inequality, hatred and intolerance based on racial, national, religious or other belongings or definitions, as well as gender, gender, gender, physical, mental or other characteristics and abilities. ''We have been witnesses here, for several months now, even some books have been coming out as reports from a non-governmental organization called the Helsinki Committee or someone else called the Humanitarian Law Fund. The 2007 Helsinki Committee report lists so many institutions and so many significant figures of the country of Serbia that it is simply impossible that they can and should all be abolished, of course as a wish of the Helsinki Committee and as a recommendation to some EU institutions, and here I primarily think of some associations sitting in some secret kitchens, all of which create what they are making, and create such a situation and such problems that we literally don't get to solve one problem, but we come from one to the other, and we get more and more crowded and crowded with certain problems. These organizations work, they're not prevented, you listed it in this bill. Why did I quote this? Just because I think those who need to enforce this law will not be able to enforce this law or some of the provisions of this law. This can only be a list of good wishes, such as a list of good wishes, many other laws that have been passed. Those who need to enforce the law, they don't enforce it. Always in the subordination chain, from reporting, reporting or reporting certain reports to the law enforcement authorities, to making a decision in the judiciary, some of the link breaks. You guys play that game all the time: who's the weakest link in that chain. We have laws that can be interpreted as good solutions, such as the law that was passed in 2006 on churches and religious communities, can be interpreted as good solutions, but no one implements it. We have laws that are a list of good wishes, they look like a real little Frankenstein to me. You're going to have to do a few surgeries on this. I believe that through the adoption of the amendments that we have submitted, you will succeed. We think three members are more than funny that they exist in one organization. These ten members were more than a few, but they satisfied some minimum to form bodies that work and operate in a particular association. We have submitted through our amendments to be 30 members, because if someone represents an idea, if someone wants to present their idea and gather and interest more people in the state of Serbia, even outside Serbia, they must find a slightly larger and more serious number of like-minded people. With three men going into such a serious shift of certain segments of society is more or less unserious. I say, many will take advantage of that possibility and run to register, and in the end, they will be waiting for these provisions of yours from 10 to 400,000 dinars. These penalties will not normally be paid from 14 to 18 years of age, but by their legal representatives who have signed that child to enter and organise certain associations. I think it would be a good idea if, by emergency procedure, you would withdraw this bill to do it a little bit. If you do not do so, but we have already entered a certain procedure, to accept as many amendments as possible, so that this bill is a little more serious and at least in some segments it prevents abuse. And that opens the door across some of the confusing members you've given here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7537	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Dujovic, and before him Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7538	I have to try to answer some of the questions he asked. First of all, as far as children are concerned, the children are in our system and so far, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, and 30 years ago, and I don't know now honestly how, let's say 1892, for sure, and for that I don't know, they could have founded associations. Only then did they need the Alliance of Socialist Youth, it was different. At least we have a legal representative, a parent, a custody body he's assigned, etc. I was a member of the Boy Scouts, many of them were members of these associations. It's nothing strange or controversial. Secondly, we have this UN Convention which rightly allows children explicitly. Thirdly, children at age 14 are partly responsible, at age 15, at age 16, with the court's consent, they can get married, they can have children of their own. There are a number of other rights and obligations that one person of 14 years of age still has. At the age of 16, I can, God forbid, be in juvenile prison. I want to tell you that there are a number of these rights and obligations imposed on children, younger and older minors. It has nothing to do with this law. With this law we want to realize this freedom and to confirm that freedom that already exists in our society, which is acquired, and the freedom that otherwise exists for all children of the world, except for some countries that do not accept such UN conventions, which are mostly countries that we do not want to see, we simply do not belong to this world. As for the number 3, 4, 5, 6, you state the possibility of abuse; whoever is prone to abuse, whoever is prone to sects, will do so in whatever way. It has nothing to do with this law. We can't make it impossible for all of us normal people to team up. We're not teaming up to propagate some ideas. Who's going to propagate the idea to go to a political party? We're teaming up to achieve some common interest, you, me, my colleague, we're teaming up to protect the tree in our park. Mrs. Pesic said the fifth park wonderfully. That's the point. Don't do it for some who are prone to abuse to disabled our entire society and say, "Here we go, so they don't." Whoever's prone, they'll collect 30 or they'll be 20, but they'll do ugly things, whatever. With this law, we realize this freedom. Thirdly, whoever wants to abuse this, to deal with the sect, doesn't exactly want to register, because it doesn't suit him because this law makes the state look at its functioning. It doesn't suit him, because under this law the state can enter any association of citizens, it can review all the papers, it can control any activity, and it can ultimately cover a certain procedure before the Constitutional Court to ban it. I understand your concern, but I don't think you're right. We can't punish 95% of the good for 5% of the bad and make it impossible for them to keep something going. As far as Article 2(2) is concerned, you, as a People's MP, have suggested erasing, I think we look a little differently. We say -- this is a fundamental law, a fundamental law, he's the one who needs to realize that freedom of association. Now there are special laws for special areas. You've spoken more than once about churches and religious communities, but there's a law on churches and religious communities. This law is subject to subsidiarity, only in the part in which some basic law has not resolved something, such as the Labour Act is subsidized in all those provisions, in all parts of which the Law on civil servants has not solved anything. So you can't start a church with three members, you can't start a union with three members, you can't start a political party with three members, because there are special laws that regulate that establishment. These are special forms of association. And the sect? How can you establish a sect? The point of this is to achieve a common goal. It can indeed be a neighbourhood that will be organized, has its own association, and launchs a strong campaign to achieve a common goal of these people who have teamed up there. Sometimes these people are very few, sometimes they deal with extremely human, wonderful things, sometimes they're encouraged by some concern and problem, God forbid, a family disease, so a few of them who have this problem get together, make an association, and they fight to achieve a common goal, etc., for sending them to be treated abroad and so on. Unfortunately, there's everything. That's why it's my request not to look at it in that there are people who are evil, so they're going to abuse it, because they're going to be dealing with evil affairs whatever the law is. Moreover, they won't register, because if they register then they have to turn on the lights and the state is watching them. They'd rather act unregistered, because then the state can't take care of what they're doing. So let's not because of this fear and doubt that we're making it impossible for freedom tomorrow and for you, and for me, and for any man, any of our fellow citizens, to, together with two other fellow citizens, achieve that freedom and achieve some of their goals or general goals. Maybe they're pushing for the protection of a stream or something. It's our seeing things. I just wanted to tell you that we look at it differently. As far as this is concerned, you said there must be punishment. We've been here all these years bringing money for which association. Now let's see, if something is not in line with transparency, in accordance with the law, let's punish him. We've always complained that we can't check who's doing what's right and doing what's right and punishing him. Now we can. Penalties must exist, and there's that Latin negligent yuris night, ignorance of the law harms, as we know, it's not controversial. In the end, Article 3, you talked about these goals. It's the constitution we adopted together. There are things where people can't join together, they can't do, these things are forbidden, the Constitutional Court is competent to impose that ban, we simply put it in this law, and that's the basis for banning some association, or the basis for us as a ministry not to register an association that has such goals as it has. Please move your focus to this positive part, but I agree with you. There have been a lot of issues about minors, but this is not the law that treats that matter, nor will these things be resolved by this law. We can't solve them this way. Because someone's mean and obviously doing ugly things, they'll do them whatever. Don't let us punish all those who aren't, who, by this law, could accomplish some of their freedom. And more importantly, the state by this law is finally, and we are all aware here, gaining insight into the financial business of the NGO sector. For the first time, we never had this. For the first time, we have a clear insight into all segments of the work of every NGO.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7539	National MP Branimir Djokic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7540	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I would just like to take the opportunity to ask Minister Markovic a few questions: is there any chance that he has any information as to how many registered associations of ours are in Serbia today, how many associations, since there were once social and civil society associations, only under the 1982 law, and does he have information on how many of these registered associations, which, by law, ten people have been able to register, have been misusing for years in the entire territory of Serbia? The abuses are not small, although it is said to be the association of fishermen, the association of art artists, estradics, do not matter which associations, these abuses do enormous damage to Serbian citizens. I will give a few examples, given that I was president of the Union of Essradic Artists and Artists of Serbia, where actors' associations, film workers, everything about abuses of certification. No one controls them. They give certificates to embassies, people who don't do certain jobs at all, and, of course, the law on culture or the laws that are subject to certain associations has regulated who can get a certain certificate for such matters, for obtaining work and music visas, and travel abroad. Police have been fully informed for years, embassies intervene fully, the ministries are being informed. So far there have been about 15 lawsuits, police have found counterfeits, no case has been solved so far. It's the shame and shame that's going on, that's what these associations of ours are doing. We say freedom of the citizens. It's all nice, it's okay, but they have to be controlled and the law must be applied to them. Like when someone fakes a ID card, so they have to answer for the fake of another who betrays, as I have now received information to see how far it goes. This is a very important segment. It now stands out in February for people who had a mandate at the Artis Infos Agency. What's going on now? Now in the previous term people send letters, go from house to house, from association to association, there are 2,500 associations, write the text, here is our signature, the Assembly, already the name of the man who is already a member of that agency. Just hit the seal, sign it. I can collect 2,000 of these certificates from various associations and associations, where I will bring them to the Assembly, and when you arrive, the commission says - this man is the most prominent in Serbia, give him to this important function. These are abuses unseen. I just wanted to ask that question and that the subject should be taken into account how to provide through these laws in order to reduce you to a smaller number.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7541	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus group, followed by MP Sasa Dujovic, so Natasa Vukovic, Momo Colaković and Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7542	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank, above all, my fellow Members and colleagues who have allowed me to speak before them, since after this I have another important obligation here in the Assembly. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I'd like to begin speaking. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister is so commended today by the MPs that I am simply uncomfortable with adding another commendation. Of course, the fact that this law has entered the procedure and that it is on the agenda deserves to really commend the minister who has contributed significantly to this, but I would say that we should also commend parliament as the institution that is willing to pass this law, given the fact that the most frequent criticism for not passing this law has been withdrawn by parliament. So I congratulate both your colleagues and your colleagues for discussing this law today, because this is one of the important ones, I would say the system laws governing a very important area in our country. The passing of this law has a strange history. Those who were interested in the adoption of this law have this ridiculously superstitious comment on the subject - whenever the law enters the assembly procedure, the government that proposed it falls. We will, of course, break those superstitions, because it's simply not about superstition. It is a matter of the fact that most likely this law is not considered important enough to be allowed into the assembly procedure and to be on the agenda at the very beginning of the mandate of a government, which is now happening. It is certainly a guarantee that the law, I hope, will be passed, that in the term of office of this government it will start to apply and that it will already show good results. The G 17 Plus party will, of course, support this law primarily because it is one of the basic values and objectives of G 17 plus building a modern civil society. Civil society or civil society is very important for the development of each country, and when civil society is spoken of recently, some negative connotations are also often heard. I want to remind you of what civil society really is. Civil society is each citizen individual, that is, of course, the media, and associations of citizens, and universities, and unions and associations of experts, means everything that is not directly related to the state and its institutions. Of course, then we must have a high awareness that such a sector is very important to edit and this time we arrange it through one of its segments, which is - the functioning of the Association of Citizens. Civil society is not the invention of modern times, but civil society is something that comes from ancient times. I would just like to remind myself of one definition of Thomas Payne, which speaks this way about the relationship between society and the state, because often questions are raised in our public by, of course, those who are slightly less addressed to this -- what do we need from NGOs, associations of citizens, civil society, if we have a state to take care of citizens through our institutions? Of course, the state cannot take care of everything itself and, of course, that the state has some jurisdiction and transfer, and it is aware that it is simply impossible to recognise every need of every citizen in every part of Serbia's territory and that it is much better when citizens themselves contribute to their needs being better addressed. In 1776, Thomas Payne said this - society is the product of our desires, the state of our faults. Society encourages our happiness positively, equating our feelings, states negatively, limiting differences. Society protects, the state punishes. It is therefore important that society and the state act together to ensure the best exercise of the rights of all our citizens. The history of the development of the citizens' association in Serbia is really long, as we could hear from many today, but not always continuous. We had periods, of course, when the association of citizens was more intense and when it was fully involved in the activities of society, but we also have periods when unfortunately it was not so. My colleagues before me had already mentioned the first forms of association of citizens through mobiles and borrowings, as well as religious and humanitarian organisations. The law of 1881 has already been mentioned, the law on freedom of association, and the term of the NGO is also not new. This is the term that first appeared in Serbia in 1874 in the then read "The Voice of the Public". The law of 1881, similar to this law, also regulated the registration of the association, the statutes, the principles of work. Registration was then carried out in the administration of the city of Belgrade, but was approved by the competent interior minister. However, in Serbia's recent history, we have a period after World War II when citizens' associations could only act as social organisations and as the esteemed minister said just before, they were politically colored and were often tied to a state or party. If these values were nurtured, their work was also made possible and welcomed, if not limited and often sanctioned and punished. We have good examples and traditions of the activities of professional associations, such as the Serbian Medical Society or the Bar Association, but on the other hand there were associations of intellectuals, citizens, who had different opinions from the system at the time and who were roughly sanctioned and disabled in their work. During the 1980s, civil initiatives representing the predecessor of the multi-party system appear. In the 1990s, the functioning of the Association of Citizens and Civil Society characterized strong resistance to the existing regime -- organisations dealing with human rights, peace organisations, as well as humanitarian organisations that helped our citizens to survive difficult times. After 2000, the association of citizens, NGOs, the civil sector is seeking its place in society and there is a certain period of time where a certain discrepancies have been observed in the new situation, but the sector is slowly adapting to the needs of society and finding its place and role in today's society. Today's situation is characterized by the fact that so far there has been no adequate legal framework, which many have also spoken of, relatively weak sector structure, poor connection, no umbrella organisations that could somehow unite the work of the association. But this sector has a rather uniform system of values and a framework of values, which is in the spirit and Serbian traditional and today's values that our country promotes, but of course European values. These are, of course, the democratisation of society, and respect for human rights, and social inclusion and many other values. In 1995, only 174 associations were registered in Serbia, in 2005, there were 1,935, the number of registered associations growing, but of course after the legal framework I expect the number to increase further and the sector will increase further. What I want to tell you is that in one survey 47.1% of citizens have said that they are members of an association of citizens, and if parties and trade unions are excluded, then 32.7% of citizens belong to some kind of association. This speaks of a clear need for this area to be settled, given the fact that about a third of the citizens are in some way participating and participating in the work of one of the associations. Unfortunately, today’s associations have weaknesses, of course, to speak openly. They themselves register as their weaknesses often elitism that exists among them, of course there are abuses. There are often so-called. "one man show" organization, when one man practically forms an organization and rarely usurps some rights from that area he deals with. Why do we need citizens' associations? You can often hear numerous prejudices in this field. A group of MPs, who attended a seminar on further education in the area of solving poverty, had opportunities a few days ago to listen to a very inspiring lecture by professor. A speck of prejudice. I think it would really be useful for many to hear this talk, because when it comes to NGOs there are really many prejudices and some of them we have had the opportunity to hear today. However, NGOs are needed not only because of what the minister pointed out, because of the principle of freedom of association that is guaranteed by our Constitution, but also by many European conventions, but also because countries, all modern states, recognise the limited functionality of the state itself to solve and take responsibility for just all issues in society. So NGOs also appear in the field of social protection, both in the fields of education, in the fields of health, sustainable development, environmental protection, human rights, but also in many peace organisations. What are NGOs and associations of citizens doing today, and how can they help our society? They rarely participate, and should participate, in policy-making, but also in translation policies into practice, which is, I would say, the problem of our country and where there is one gap in which the functioning of the association is very welcome. They're building a partnership with the state, and they're building a relationship with each other. Also, they are of course welcome as constructive critics of the state, but they can also work on raising the general level of awareness in a problem and can also be a direct provider of certain services, for example in the field of social protection, health care or other areas. What are the comparative advantages of NGOs compared to state institutions? Above all, flexibility, faster adaptation to needs and recognition of the needs of citizens on the ground, means, in the local community itself, in the neighbourhood; then a much faster and more efficient system of decision-making, i.e. a system of decision-making without administrative barriers. Furthermore, their comparative advantage is certainly and well-knowledge of computer technologies, but also technology accessing European funds and the way they operate, so that they also operate in the state, and in particular local self-government can be a significant partner in the future. What is the state in this partner relationship supposed to do and how is it to be built? First of all, by building a legislative framework, by adopting this law that we are talking about today. Croatia passed the law in 2001 and today has 23 thousand organisations registered. Of course, I think that the state should separate certain budgets to help function the Association of Citizens, and this is the law I mean well regulated because, as I said, NGOs should not work for their own benefit, but for the benefit of citizens, and it is perfectly official that the state through a transparent, visible process and process that can be monitored, separates budget funds to finance not NGOs, but programmes and activities that they deal with. The state should include, as was the case with this law, the non-governmental sector and citizens' associations in policy making, strategic documents, but also concrete legal solutions. I'd like to give a few good examples that our country has already had in this area. This is primarily the Strategy for the Reduction of Poverty, which was adopted with the active participation of NGOs and associations of citizens dealing with the problems of individual, especially the poverty of affected groups, but also the Social Innovation Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which had special resources to assist the work of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, which in a transparent and open process over the past two years through the competition enabled around 200 youth associations. Then, the Youth Ministry also co-operated with the NGO sector in the process of developing a youth strategy. With the government, there is a poverty reduction team that actively co-operates with citizens' associations and the NGOs, but let me also praise us as the Assembly, which in recent years have become particularly open to citizens' associations. Through the introduction of public hearing practices, we managed to bring in a large number of citizens' associations in the Assembly to discuss some draft laws, and also within the Committee on Poverty Reduction, we had a forum for all partners dealing with the problem of poverty, so there were local partners, and employers, and trade unions and NGOs. I believe these are examples of good practice. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is of course necessary and necessary and to a large extent well-conceived. Of course, my representatives have already said that so far there have been two laws governing this area. It is the Law on Social Organizations and Associations of 82nd, Republic Law, and the Law on the Association of Citizens in the Association, Social Organization and Political Organizations of 1990, which was a federal law. There was a colour in the proposed solutions, even in the registration, so organisations chose which law to register. What were the weak points of these laws are that they made the difference between the association of citizens, or NGOs, as we popularly call them, and social organisations, that there were no informal forms of association, that there was no solution to the status of foreign organisations, that foreign natural persons could not be founders, as well as legal persons, that a very high number of necessary founders for the establishment of the association and that there were great discretionary powers in shutting down the association. The advantages of this new proposed law are primarily the principle of volunteering, then a small number of persons who are predicted as founders, three persons. I must tell you that this is in full compliance with the laws of Europe and the environment. Denmark, for example, and Italy have no restrictions in the number of founders, and most countries, such as France and Germany, have two persons needed as founders, while somewhere the standard of being three persons is accepted, with our law fully in line with this European legislation. What is also the advantage of this law is that the statute gives a broad freedom to citizens' associations to regulate their own relations and their own activity, then introduces business opportunities, where organisations do not have the right to share the profits achieved among their members, but to return them to the association, or to carry out those activities that work in the interests of citizens. So this is very clearly defined and does not provide the possibility of abuse. Then, I would like to commend the public competitions for the allocation of budget funds. I think there may have been a provision to monitor the phases of implementation of the programme to make sure that the funds are well used, although the law provides for the recovery of funds unless they are adequately used. I also commend this law because it has tried to define what organisations are of public interest, or what public interest is and what areas of particular public interest are in place, so that the budgets are allocated for the financing of these programmes. Then, the reasons for the ban are restrictively prescribed and in the spirit of European conventions, a clear process of liquidation is arranged, the work of foreign associations is regulated and legalised, but the legal status of social property so far is also regulated, which is also very important. What I have registered as a weakness of the law, I have already said, I believe that a clear procedure for monitoring the programmes that receive budgets should be introduced. I also believe that, as legislators for the ban on law enforcement, the protection of citizens and citizens could be introduced with their signatures, in order to sort of exempt this from the country alone. I think youth programmes should have been listed as public interest. And, of course, the biggest grudge is the one that many have already talked about, that's Article 76, which basically leaves property in the possession of social organisations. I think that's how other organizations are discriminated against. At the very end, here's my time is already up, and I want to list some of the non-government organizations we've been working with now in the Assembly. These are, for example, the Power of Friendship of Amiti, the Long from Ade, the Association of Students with Handicap, Group 484, the Centre for the Rights of the Child as an Expert Organization, the Center for the Independent Life of Persons, the Association of Paraplegics from Leskovec, the Autonomous Women's Center, the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies, the Roma Information Centre from Kragujevac and many others. On behalf of all these organizations, all their activists, all the citizens whose welfare they work with and all those with whom G17 plus shares the vision of a modern, fairer, more successful, better state, G17 plus will support this law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7543	The word has been issued by MP Sasa Dujovic, an authorised representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7544	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently this is a very important law as soon as so many MPs have reported to discuss it and discuss it this thoroughly. The law on citizens' association for us from the SPS-JS parliamentary club is very important, as is important for social life in Serbia. The solution so far, which must have been acknowledged, was good for some time ago, today does not fit the need for this segment of social life to follow a solution that dictates the needs of citizens for association. The Association of Citizens must have clear objectives around which citizens are gathered and enable the state to find partners in associations to implement certain needs of citizens for which citizens are just joining. The current law on associations, as well as various amendments and additions to the same, and several regulations have failed to establish order in the scope of social life. The jurisdiction, due to the existence of parallel authorities at federal and republican level, has often been doubled, so we have had absurd situations that one association refuses to register a republican competent authority, and is registered by the federal competent authority, and vice versa. When the draft law on associations is adopted and order is introduced in this area, the register of all associations will finally be maintained within the framework of one ministry. The importance of keeping a register of associations in one place is of paramount importance. Centralisation of the records will allow better monitoring of the work of the association in achieving its objectives and tasks of the competent authorities. The draft law provides for specific categories to have the status of associations of public interest. A large number of areas envisioned by law are a good sign of the state's desire to co-operate with associations. I want to believe that only by mistake the promoter in this category dropped the category of war veterans, wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters, as well as the evasive and displaced persons from KIM. I'm sure the Proposer will accept the amendments made by the SPS-JS Parliament Club, and will fix this Greek. Also, very important changes compared to the previous law relate to the number of founders of the association. The new proposal, as has already been said several times here, provides that instead of the ten founders so far, it can only be three citizens. Personally, I believe that the absurd is greater, one is enough to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. At this point, I consider it an extremely bad solution. I hope that the motioner will nevertheless find the possibility to find a compromise between the proposed and the large number of amendments on the subject. More than 30,000 associations are currently registered in Serbia. The fact itself leads to the conclusion that if such a proposal on the number of founders is adopted, at the very least the number of associations will be doubled, which must be recognised as leading to the worse work of the associations themselves, as well as the most likely poor co-operation with the state authorities. Particular attention should be paid to the part of the draft law relating to the property of the association. A large number of associations are now benefiting from significant assets that they have received for use from the debtors, curators, or have in the past benefited from contributions from their funds. The bill promoter predicted, in my opinion, a very bad solution, that if the association doesn't prove that it has invested in the assets it is moving into state property. The promoter did not take care of the will of a donor who is in the entire civilized world of holiness. I find it extremely fair that the Government as a proposing must accept the real situation and at the very least be equal with the associations and prove its investment in the assets used by the associations to gain the right to have it. Otherwise, such a proposal could have the consequences of an association likely to lose the property it now owns. As an example of this kind of action, I will cite the fate of the House of War invalids in Belgrade and the House of Warriors, better known as the House of the Army. The House of War invalids was built as an asset from 1934 to 1937 at over 11,700 square meters. Today's wartime wartime invalids, i.e. associations using this property have 3,288 square meters and more than 8,000 square meters are usurped and bought from the natural and legal persons themselves. Nationalisation, which ended in 1964, led to a certain square metre, I can even quote, Belgrade's film taking over 680 square meters, "Agroop" 1,100, the Sava Venac Business Area around 700 etc., led to the fact that wartime wartime disabled, whom King Peter left as an asset to the House of Military Disabilities, lost that property and today cannot afford it. By adopting such a proposal, without the changes proposed in the amendments to the SPS-JS parliamentary club, it brings us back at the time of nationalisation, which is contrary to the return tendencies taken from the property and the preparation of the law on denationalisation, as well as the path that Serbia is moving towards the European Union. In addition to numerous associations that addressed the SPS-JS parliamentary club, as well as myself, their opposition was vigorously directed by the property-owned trade unions, which has been acquired for decades. A particular problem is the property of fighting-inhabited organisations, which in most cases was acquired between the two world wars when it was a golden time for employment in Serbia. According to some of our data, this property is currently estimated at around a billion euros, and in World War II, a large number of documents that would be legitimateized as property owners simply disappeared, burned down or simple associations are not in a position to legitimateize themselves as owners, which, according to your proposal, i.e. On a proposal from the Government, it automatically passes into the jurisdiction of the State. By adopting such a bill, the state takes over the management of something that has not contributed to funding, and I personally find it in the least incorrect. In the end, I would like to point out the following, by leading the interests of citizens to join together, the legislator tried to propose the most impoverished legal solutions that could be acceptable to citizens, as well as to MPs. It is necessary that the legislator accept the proposed amendments or at least part of them, which improve the bill's proposal, and that we allow citizens easier association in order to create conditions for the resolution of programme objectives and tasks set out in the founding acts and statutes of the association. Of course, in preparation for today's session, we have already held some talks and one part of the amendment is, I say, generally accepted, in particular there will be words further. What's very important to us and what I've been asked to do by a large number of fighting disability organizations to suggest and indicate here is that the property owned by SUBNOR is owned by alliances of pensioners, reserve military officers, sub-offices, elders, etc. Not a small and simply large number of these organizations are not in a position to prove the origin of this property that it was left to them. As I have already stated, it has been so, many assets have been left by people of good faith. Today, we have several trust funds and foundations owned by unknown people. I agree that order should be introduced, but where it is extremely well known and where there are organisations that have inherited the tradition of rearing some of the former organizations that have managed this property, there should be little more understanding by the promoters. What we insist on is the number of founders. There is a lot being said here about the number of founders as an illogical proposal of three, I personally believe that this number could be maintained from the existing law, which is ten, while taking into account the suggestion or the European Union's proposal to be at least two, if I understand it well from previous talks, which means that it does not restrict us in any larger number. I think we should work on that and find a common solution. There has been a lot of talk about the business capacity of underage citizens, and I think this should be taken into account, especially since the current proposal provides that only one citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is sufficient as the founder of the Association Act, and two can be foreigners. We come to a situation where the founders of two strangers and one underage child, regardless of the consent of the parents, which I personally find unwell. Also, I am very pleased to have received information from the ministry's representatives that the solution in Article 36(3) will be corrected, in addition to existing associations of public interest for citizens, that there will be both fighting and disability associations, as well as associations of displaced and refugees, primarily with KIM, but also other Serbian countries. In principle, it would be all that I had to talk about at this point, and I'll take my right to, in particular, under the amendments, if the minister accepts anything, we'll be glad, if he doesn't accept it, we'll try to convince him to accept it, so I hope we'll have an understanding by the promoter. Because, however, the category of the non-governmental sector in civil society is very important, and here I represent an extremely numerous category, it's called martial-involvement protection, the participants of some unkind events that we would all like to forget, and it is my duty to present this problem, because it is a large number of citizens and something called traditions. I'm not sure this should be compared to the NGO sector in the right sense of the word. Control in this sense says yes, but though when two sides of citizens and one citizen of Serbia, and you have, say, one SuBNOR of Serbia, which counts hundreds of thousands of members etc., it is not the same, at least I don't think it should be the same for the state authorities and that they look at each other as well, since we're in the ranks of the association. Of course, I hope that the amendments submitted by the SPS and I as the representative of the Veterans of Serbia will be considered here by the Proposer and will be followed by them. Admit them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7545	The word has a national MP Natasa Vuckovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group for European Serbia. After that, MP Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7546	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, DS and the ZES Parliamentary Group, of course, will support the Law on Citizens' Associations, because we find this law extremely important. The reasons that make this law so important are numerous, both for the exercise of the rights of our citizens to association, and so I feel that we can improve the state of our democracy. Why is this law so important? First of all, this law creates a legal framework for the exercise of one right of citizens - the right to association that is covered by our Constitution, which guarantees the right to freedom of association. Each democratic country seeks to create in a maximum good way the conditions for association, for the joint action of citizens, both in the political sphere through political parties and in civil society, or in a society where citizens' associations are founded as citizens' rights. The second reason why this law is so important is because the three laws, which have so far been regulated by this area, which have already been spoken of in previous exhibitions and which have been completely inapplicable to the current situation in the NGO sector and in the area of the citizens' association, are being put out of force and this area is being regulated in a completely different way, a similar state that exists in reality. I have to say that the interest of the NGO sector, to the extent that I know, is that this area is being arranged as best as possible, as is the interest of the state to have this area arranged so that the state, through its authorities, can achieve some minimum control required in this area. What is very good and what should serve as an example when we pass other laws, is that a large number of NGOs really participated in the preparation of this bill. They had the right to express their opinions, disagreements and disagreements, which were always good. There was indeed a sort of public debate. The fact that this law has been long prepared since 2002, of course, has contributed to a large number of interested citizens' associations being able to participate in the preparation of this draft. The third reason why this law is very important is that Serbia, as most of you know, is in the monitoring process of the Council of Europe, since our accession to this organisation in 2003, when the law on citizens' associations is set as one of the conditions Serbia must meet after membership. Every report of reporters has so far contained the conclusion that we have not passed this law. This passing of the law actually meets this condition somewhere, the condition that arises from our membership in this organization. Finally, the reason why this law is important is, of course, the promotion of democracy and, long ago, democracy is measured not only by a degree of democracy in the political sphere, the possibility of political organisation, the ability of citizens to express their political opinion in free and fair elections, but by more and more than how citizens participate in the decision-making process and how society, through civil society organisations, or associations of citizens, is able to take over a part of the work and activities that the centralised state has done so far. It's not standard anymore. The standard today is also the decentralisation of the state, but also the taking over of the good part of the state's jurisdiction by civil society, especially in this social sphere, which I'm going to talk about a little bit later. All democratic countries are making sure that in the best possible way they provide conditions for the active participation of citizens, both in the political process and in this civilian sector. I would like to mention the example of Sweden, which, for all of us who deal with democracy, is considered one of the role models among the countries in the plan for the functioning of democratic institutions. The previous Social Democratic Government of Sweden in 2002 and 2003 considered it necessary to introduce a ministry of democracy that had two types of competence. One was an increase in citizens' participation in the elections and political process, and the other was to speed up citizens' association. I want to say that even such a democratic country, such as Sweden in some general opinion, is concerned with the question of how to improve their democracy, because it is a question that has never been completed, has never been resolved until the end. Citizens' associations are key, of course not the only but key element of civil society, which, unlike closed, authoritarian society, characterizes openness, tolerance, rule of law, respect for human rights, etc., and above all pluralism. Pluralism, which in all spheres of society, in both political and business, or commercial, or society itself, allows civil society to express its interests, needs and feelings and to have opportunities for other citizens to hear. It is a very important principle of course and respect for the principles of pluralism that shows our democratic commitment to hear and understand different opinions, for different activities in society, for different interests, to try to bring them into line and thus to come to the best possible decisions for the development of society. This right of association in this sense can only be limited by certain constitutional order, constitutional norms and by the system of values that the constitution promotes. In that sense, this law limits freedom of association. Of course, this is a very current issue, and today in society there is a lot of talk about the need to find mechanisms, to prevent in the most efficient way the work and public action of all those who advocate and promote fascism, racism, intolerance, etc. It is up to us to find answers to these questions in this House through appropriate legal solutions. I would point out what important solutions are in this law that we consider particularly important in the ZES parliamentary group and in the Democratic Party. First of all, the adoption by the citizens' association's proposing term. We think that this is very good, that we have defined ourselves for this name, even though in earlier proposals and in debate on this law, they have been proposals for it to be an NGO, and a non-profit organisation, etc. I think it's a good thing we've defined ourselves as a term of association of citizens, which the law defines as non-profit, non-governmental and voluntary, which is one of the basic characteristics of the Association of Citizens. In doing so, of course, it is very important to say that the NGO, often heard in our public, never means anti-government, and I think that my colleague in the previous presentation has just pointed out that in the 19th century, in one of our magazines, for the first time, it is believed that the term of the NGO is mentioned. But it is in the tradition of Serbian society and various associations to use exactly the expression of the association of citizens and that is very good. The second point I set out is that the law unites two groups of associations in a very good way. These are those who, on the one hand, form themselves as societies or associations of members, who have certain common interests of members of the association, are examples of numerous organisations and associations of persons with disabilities, various hobby organisations, which are also very important for the life and functioning of one society, and those organisations that, on the other hand, achieve some general goal, a goal that is important for society in general, and that is very good that both of these organisations are covered by this bill. In the DS, we believe it is a very good proposal that only three people are needed to establish an association of citizens, we believe that three people or three persons form a group and that this is a very good solution. We also believe that a very good solution is that the bill has in a very free way defined the possibility of each association to define the governance bodies within its own framework. Of course, the statutes need to determine the bodies of the association, but it has not imposed any concrete solutions, which has been criticised by NGOs compared to some previous texts that we have had the opportunity to see. The fourth thing I do is register. We need to have one register. I understand the need to have one registry at the Province of Vojvodina level, but I would point to one solution provided by the law, I would recommend to the Ministry this practice if it really applied to its work, which is the possibility of doing the work of a registry outside the ministry's headquarters. I think this is a particularly important option from the point of view of accessibility for citizens, remote places in Serbia, because for many associations, it may be a problem that they have to come to Belgrade to register and to finish all registration jobs. Today in Serbia, in my knowledge, around 30,000 organizations of different species are operating. There are very big prejudices about their work, about the structure of these organizations, about the public seeing one another more than the other, which is normal, but it seems to me very important that we bear in mind that there is almost no sphere of social action where there is no active association of citizens. Of course, we have had opportunities over all these previous years to see what this is a major contribution that individual associations and organisations have made, both in establishing a democratic system in Serbia and in setting conditions for implementing reforms in various areas. I think that today, in almost every municipality in Serbia, there is an association that promotes European values, which seeks to bring practical EU policies closer to our citizens. I know that there are various associations that today work with farmers across Serbia, trying to bring this very EU agricultural policy closer to them, it is a very important thing, we will all agree that it is important that the many prejudices we have in the process of our EU accession be overcome. In real life, therefore, the contribution of the Association of Citizens is extremely large, both in the humanitarian field and in the fields of education, culture, science, of course, protection of human rights and all other areas where there are associations of citizens. The fifth solution I draw as a very good definition is to adopt the principle of application, not the principle of approval, when registering, which is a modern principle that is widely accepted. This law also provides for the possibility of registering foreign representations, foreign associations, which is also very good, for the simple reason that a large number of international organisations and associations that have not so far had the opportunity to register properly and operate within our legal system for many years. One newspaper is certainly the possibility provided for by the bill, that the Association of Citizens can carry out economic activity, and of course it must be provided for in the statute, and in that case, if it is defined as having an economic activity, it must be registered in the competent authority for the registration of economic operators, which is good. What remains to be defined in this area, which is of course not the subject of this law, but parliament should speak and encourage the government to do so, is that certain fiscal laws in a special way regulate exactly the implementation, i.e. the economic activity of NGOs, given that there are certain specificities there and that in many legal systems there are different solutions to how to regulate this issue. These are various forms of services provided by associations of citizens, social entrepreneurship, etc. It's a very important question, especially for societies like ours. I would also point out the regulation of something that actually existed in practice, which is the possibility that NGOs, citizens' associations, receive funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget for their work, provided that their programmes are of public interest and that it is clearly defined what are areas of public interest in Article 38. Of course, obtaining funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget should be based solely on a public competition, criteria and NGOs must publish their annual report at the end of the year, so that it can be made available to the public. This is a very important newspaper, so there was practice in this area, that NGOs get funding from the state, but on the other hand there was no law until the end defined. Today, in a large number of countries, and this is happening to us, as I said, there are different forms of partnership between the state, between local authorities and citizens' associations, and this is particularly important in the field of social policy, where there are very big problems in our society, and where, on the other hand, the state is in a situation, because of the lack of budget resources, that it constantly examines and reduces the various forms of aiding. The third sector, i.e. citizens' associations, is there in an opportunity to contribute in a very active way to just improving the achievement of social policy. It has already been said about the advantages that citizens' associations can have in this sense, that is, what makes them competitive in such a single partnership, is, of course, the possibility of individualising their programmes, so that the social assistance programmes that NGOs, citizens' associations have, are actually much more in line with the specific needs of certain social groups, in a particular territory, in a particular local community, this is one advantage competitive. Another competitive advantage is that citizens' associations' programmes are always somewhat cheaper than state programmes, because the state must first of all predict one programme for the entire territory of the state, and on the other hand, of course, the state apparatus is more expensive. A good example for this partnership between the state and the citizens' association is, of course, the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy, which during this period of five or six years has really managed to bring together a large number of citizens' associations across Serbia, to coordinate their work and not only to engage them, but to actually increase and improve their organisational capacity for participation in such a single partnership. In that sense, it seems to me that it would be very important to commend and continue to encourage a good practice that exists at our local level. A large number of our local authorities, which were created in the previous period by so-called Councils on co-operation with the NGO sector, it is a very good practice and has several reasons to do so. First of all, it is very important to bear in mind that citizens' associations in the local environment employ a certain number of people, secondly, to employ certain funds spent in this local environment for the needs and benefits of citizens and, thirdly, to have a certain source of information through citizens' associations of local authorities on what are the real needs of citizens in their environment. In the end, I'd like to say that it was about funding and solving property rights issues. Of course, it is difficult to find the best solution, because examples are different and it is impossible in one law to so individualize the solution. What seems important to me is that we, as a state and as a society, should encourage various forms of domestic financing of the work of the Association of Citizens. One way to do this is to pass soon one law that is considered compatible with this, which is the law on foundations and borrowings, which should also encourage the formation of domestic borrowings, domestic foundations and to animate our business sector to invest in a non-governmental, or third sector. For all these reasons that I have stated, we in the DS support this law, see it just as an incentive to promote our ability to join in society and as a contribution to creating a common atmosphere in implementing the objectives that citizens have set for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7547	The word has been made by MP Momo Colakovic, president of the PUPS parliamentary group, and then by MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7548	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the honourable MPs, the PUPS and our parliamentary group express satisfaction with the fact that this law is on the agenda of the Assembly and will be adopted, because it has a broad range of associations that are of particular importance and interest to one of the most massive populations in our country, which are pensioners. We also express our satisfaction that the three laws will finally bring together a single substance, on which relations will be regulated and allow citizens to express and realise their interests which are of the utmost importance for the development of democratic relations, for the development of humanitarian relations in society and for the regulation of relations between people who are trying to join together to achieve some of their own interests. Another thing that makes us think that it's very important, because for many years we've been trying in a variety of ways to get to the point that they're dealing with associations in the right way, to allow people to manage their own interests. In this sense, I am particularly pleased that the expectations of pension societies, pension organisations, have finally been given one basis for the offices of relations in the right way. We have over 200 associations in the Republic, we have over 3,000 parts of these associations, with over 800,000 members. It is an enormous army of citizens who expect to accomplish their interests in one orderly way and to team up to achieve these interests and agreements. The particular reason why we support the solutions offered in the law is because we have a specific need to prove representativeness for participation in the regulation of relations between the state and the association and between the state and the PIO Fund and, on the other hand, pension structures. What makes us particularly supportive of this law is a few issues that have been settled in the way we have advocated in the last few years. First and foremost, we've made it indisputable to discuss with the Ministry's representatives that the unions don't belong here. I think it's very important. Trade unions are in a different position, including relations governed by the Special Labour Act, international conventions. We understand so that the union is mentioned only because it is a constitutional category and in the Constitution they are mentioned, and everything else is not applied to them. The second thing we also talked about with the ministry representatives and made it indisputable is the question of legal status. Who is the legal person, is the association, is part of an association or alliance, etc? In this regard, we have made it indisputable that the association is a legal person, and that someone who deals with other, financial or humanitarian affairs can also become a legal person. In that sense, responsibility for that status should bear either part or association, depending on how it regulates it in its greatest normative act, i.e. The statute. That's very important to us. We've had so many problems. You probably have that in the field, and you know how and how our retirement homes work in villages, in local communities, etc. Some are legal, some are not. There are certain problems, not only because of regulated relationships, but also because of other legal regulations that must be respected. The next question is asset status. In this regard, we supported this solution, although we have submitted the amendment to regulate it differently. However, with co-operation with the Ministry, we have come to the conclusion that this solution, which has been offered by law, is more acceptable than what we have proposed. That's why we think it's finally gonna work out. I accept the suggestion and the remark that new associations, humanitarian and non-governmental organisations are not in an equal position as they have been, but in any case, they should try to keep the associations independent, keep their assets to use and not be in a more unfavourable position than they have been so far. The third thing that's very important to us, it's a matter of registering and a matter of control. I think it's very important that this is uniquely resolved by law, a single register and a single control, which will be under the authority of the ministry. We have so far had the registration of associations and NGOs at the MUP, etc. I think it's very important that this is now united, especially from the aspect of this control that needs to be provided. We think it's very important that the regulated issue of the humanitarian functioning of the association is in one special, specific way and that these provisions encourage this humanitarian activity, from aspects that I wouldn't want to talk about much, because it's already known. The humanitarian activity and the humanitarian functioning of the association, NGOs, especially from the aspect of the pensioners' association, is also very important because of what we talked about earlier. For these and many other reasons that have been heard here, we will vote for this law in the day of voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7549	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a representative of the party that won the pre-election yesterday in Prepolje, I must conclude that it is a cynical argument from Mr. Minister that this matter is being arranged only now, seven years after democratic changes in Serbia. I thought you DOS guys gave up on the story of how the October 5th was democratic change, and never before and never after, a coalition where political parties were in power until then in Serbia, so this looks like a direct indictment against coalition partners. I wouldn't forgive or forget that, and as far as your partners are concerned, let them do as they please. You've finished everything in Serbia, passed all the laws that bring us closer to the EU, and the rest is just to regulate the work of NGOs. There is so much time for the congregation to deal peacefully with this problem now. The dinar is stable, factories work, peasants feed Serbia and earn big money, we defend KIM, just to fulfill Thomas Payne's will. What can I do to resent this bill, which I think is constantly causing problems in Serbia, and the law did not regulate? First of all, you have singled out some associations whose work will be regulated or has already been regulated by earlier laws. Everyone else is still in this law, so when the minister says it won't be possible to establish sects, I ask by what law. Under what law will sects not be established, and what does that mean for the minister of the sect? Is there a definition of a sect that is forbidden and a sect that is allowed, because it is very difficult to prove that someone is establishing a sect that should be banned, unless some of the laws are taxed on what is a sect and what sects, with which rites, rituals, with which objectives and what programme can be banned. I am one of the citizens of Serbia who is being targeted by a so-called NGOs. I had to sue the president of that NGO because he told an unmistakable lie that he tried to get your presidential candidate to help the campaign win the presidential election. So, the lie was told that I was a murderer, that I was a war criminal, publicly spoken on television, transmitted by all the world media, all the domestic media. I asked for protection from the state. They said I wasn't the kind of person the state needs to protect and instructed me to sue a representative of an NGO. At a trial that takes place and is very close to becoming obsolete, the president of the humanitarian law fund said it was in the seat of the humanitarian rights fund to charge even when there is no evidence. The humanitarian rights fund is exclusively fighting Serbs and exclusively against Serbia, and it is only against people who can represent something in Serbia or who can one day bring Serbia much better than you or one of us has led it so far. That's why, Mr. Minister, I think you've failed to regulate the most important thing about these so-called so-called things. NGOs, but you could on case G 17 plus have a previous case, which is financing a non-governmental organisation. What funding? From abroad. You don't deal with this matter. For you, the domestic association is what's registered here, and 100 percent of the funds can get through donations from abroad. Fictitious projects, fictional projects, just to make money come. Then that so-called. The NGO is working against Serbia's interest. You are not currently at risk by the work of these NGOs. If you continue to say that KIM is an integral part of Serbia and if you continue to refuse to recognise Kosovo's independence, you will soon have a so-called neck. NGOs. So, Mr. Minister, what were you supposed to do? To limit funding from abroad to 49% of the total funds that the NGO can acquire or transfer to a foreign association. Work is allowed, acts according to the law, but is financed from abroad. If it's financed from abroad, it's a foreign association. How can this be a domestic association, and it's financed from abroad? Who's interested in funding the so-called so-called. Human rights fighters, the Helsinki Committee from abroad in Serbia, and defend Serbian national interests? Have you ever read that some Serb, according to their report, is at risk of human rights? No, I don't. You heard bold statements about KIM's fate, the crimes at KIM, the crimes of Serbs in Croatia. Never, never had a mandate to defend Serbia, the Serb people, to say which of the Serbs is a criminal, but to say which of the Croats, who of the Albanians is a criminal. Therefore, if after 1,800 and some years, and after some of the laws of the socialist system, this matter is regulated, do not prescribe laws that regulate the work of these organizations in the West. In the West, they're NGOs. In America, there is no NGO funded by Serbia, on any basis, by any means, by any project. In Serbia, there are many organizations that are financed from abroad, so each of them should take one prominence and turn the citizens of Serbia aside from the one who is paying, there are serious problems for Serbia and for the Serbian state. That's why this law should be done. I agree it's a big sector already. Mrs. Pesic, are you banging too? I can't believe it. Nice radical co-operation and Mrs. Pesic, great. You don't like it, Mrs. Pesic, for attacking those financed by America in Serbia. What does that have to do with you? They're not funding you. So the law needs to be passed. When a law like this is passed, you have to keep everything in mind, everything to think about. I'm not for the measures Russia had to bring to ban those who threatened Russia's vital interests. I think we're a strong enough state, democratic enough to take care of everything, anyone in Serbia who gets any job done. When the law is passed, who knows when you'll be able to fix it. So, in detail from members to members, you predict every possibility, because this law will be seen by lawyers from countries that finance the work of NGOs. They will find, and certainly you will not be able to ban them, for the Constitutional Court deals only with the prohibitions on three grounds, they will see that they do not give you the opportunity to ban them on that basis. Now, if you'd done a little bit more, and you had a little less banging, you'd have councillors in Vrnjačka Banja, you'd have a bookie, you'd have power in Zemun. Do you? Are you sure? (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7551	People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7552	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am sorry to interrupt the constructive discussion that was under way on the proposal of this law until Mr Nikolic came out for this speaker and to remind you again that I really do not know why you are giving this man the floor, and how he, as a citizen, without any legitimacy and legality, enters this House. As far as I know, you didn't personally invite him, but you tolerate his presence. This says that parliamentaryism in Serbia is indeed in a major crisis and that democracy is also in a major crisis. Your ideologist, Alexander Vukic, Mr. Nikolic, is probably trying to make you a radical with clean hands, as you would say, or a pure cheek, I don't know, he could say, a little bit in his gloves, but you're actually a washed DOS. According to everything you're saying, you actually support the policy of the former DOS. There is no difference between you and Boris Tadic. Since you are such good friends with Boris Tadic, since Boris Tadic is your extended hand in all these local campaigns, where you blackmail, kidnap, bribe, violently perform committees from municipal congregations, why don't you agree with him to call the elections nicely, naka disband the assembly, so you go in with 70 MPs, we don't mind. Maybe the people will punish us for growing a snake in the mud, for making so much effort and money to make a brand out of you. When you come out under your name and the name of your party, we will welcome that number of MPs you are introducing here in the Assembly. This is how you embarrass us, because we said one thing in the campaign, you said: The safe house for Ratko Mladic is at your house. Alexander Vukitch said it was in the Eggs. And where is he today? You don't care about Ratko Mladic. You are for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. You don't care about big Serbia, and you talk about it as a war-hospital policy. You're trying to present an ideology that isn't just SRS ideology. It's much older, it's about big Serbia, like we're just waiting for tanks, so let's go and conquer Serbian territories. No, Mr. Nikolic, you should know that it's something else, that it's a Serbian ethnic being that we can't give up, but it takes a little education. I thought you had it, but obviously you forgot everything, because of this money you're talking about, that came from abroad and that you were taking it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7553	You did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that you consider to have been injured. All of us sitting in this room know that a injured member is 27 by the chairman, because Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly implies that he must take care of the order in the hall, which as chairman, I could not provide while MP Tomislav Nikolic spoke, for banging on the inventory of the National Assembly in various cases. In various cases, standing next to Parliamentarian Momir Markovic, I can say, not today, MPs, yesterday, the day before yesterday, I can specify which MPs with which items, but at that moment I am not chairing the National Assembly session, I am now chairing and unable to secure order, because MPs, in rows of two to eight, are pounding on the inventory of the National Assembly, produce sound on my right. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: How do you see it? The People’s Parliament of the Faith of Radeta asks how I see it. I can't see, I can hear. If I did, I'd say a penalty measure, since it's a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly and to disrupting speakers. I do not dispute the right to, with as much skill as MPs have and the experience they have, interfere with the speaker and endanger the session of the National Assembly, and I can only give an example that it is a skill that we all know. People's MPs earn time. I'm obliged to explain to you what the injury of a member who has been reportedly injured is. So we are all prone to this skill, as the chairman can constantly ring when any of the MPs speak, because it is not considered a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a call for order. So the skills and avoidance of penalties for breach of the Rules of Procedure are well known to us all. If you believe that this assembly and this session deserve to beat ranks from one to eight about the inventory and interfere with the speaker, then you probably think that the chairman should be kept ringing and thus distracting the MP or the folk MP who is speaking, because it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word, so Natasa Jovanovic and MP Momir Markovic are the people's MPs. One inadmissible thing has been said, and that is that during the session of the National Assembly a word was given to a citizen and that citizens enter and speak, which is incorrect and offensive. The word was given to MP Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the group's Prost-Serbian MP, who has the status of MP, the mandate of the MP and all the rights and responsibilities that arise from this. I ask all the MPs to exchange opinions and explanations, that we all know how to violate the Rules of Procedure by obstructing speech, to take the most seriously, because the continuous ringing while the speaker speaks is also not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the distraction is a speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7554	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, as well as on the basis of Articles 104 and 103, which prescribe that the speaker should speak on the agenda. For reasons that have not been published so far, we have been present for days with tiresome political marketing in this assembly, but also in local self-governments, especially in the municipality of Zemun. However, this marketing is contrary not only to Article 102. The Constitution, which allows the existence of blank resignations, but also with Article 100. The constitution, which states MPs are elected in elections, not in controlled media. This abuse of the congregation is contrary to the principle of political correctness, the basis on which the modern world rests. Also, supporting one party who has not participated in the elections has nothing to do with democracy, especially because its ideology is completely different from the ideology of the SRS that has brought this number of mandates. I'll only give you one test. Can you imagine what an SRS voter's reaction to a pre-election rally in the Belgrade arena would be like to assume that the current other man of this new group courageously told them, as well as on October 12th 2008, that his leader is now acceptable to the United States. Or is it that someone in this group said the same thing at a rally outside the National Assembly in February this year in front of several hundred thousand bitter people precisely because of Kosovo's independence, forced by that America? Also, the SRS has always had its own recognizable program. We would never have thought of a megalomantic and unserious idea that we should be some kind of bridge between east and west. You saw a few days ago that Medvedev and Bush were completely normal to talk, with no mediators from Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea of a great Serbia is hundreds of times more real than this nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7555	National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1), so MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, let me give an explanation and clarification to the citizens of Serbia, and also to this unfortunate Kandic woman, whose same mentor and the same cashier pays her and Tomislav Nikolic, therefore the Americans, those who took them under theirs, that you do not think now, the honourable people of the MPs, that it is someone who has waged war and has been declared a war criminal. From Kragujevac, I am also our Chetnik unit and the squad commanded by Duke Sreko Radovanovic and the Duke Radovanovic himself know that the one who went out for the pay phone - does not know how to fold the gun. What kind of war criminal? He's in the SRS unit of Serbian Chetniks from Kragujevac, you know what he was serving for -- that a shriek and a hex to the soldiers of sweaters and all that they need, to get something to drink and eat? Indeed, Natasa Kandic was wrong when she falsely accused him, because one hekler and one cricketer, besides such a heclain and a shriveled sweater, came to Belgrade, from him, from such a no-knowledge and education, according to Vuk Draskovic, Dr Vojislav Seselj made a gentleman, who was up to the coup and until he was taken under his control by the Americans was dogishly faithful to his master - said Vuk Draskovic, and he wrote well, Marius is Marius. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7557	You did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, so this is the second abuse of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, 225th and 226th. I am looking for an explanation - who in this country has the right to kidnap, kidnap and remove the people of the political party to whom the people have given their trust, which they have sent to do a certain task? On Thursday, before the meeting of the Zemun Assembly, six SRS council members disappeared. We looked for them in places where they lived, and in their parents' families' homes, they were nowhere to be found. They were seen driving around Belgrade in black superb damages, with darkened windows, with recognizable numbers. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: There were Saturday tables. There were also Saturday plates. You've got a wide range. Besides, your ergel car, Mr. Nikolic, was involved. As they saw that the hijacking of their committee had failed, they flew into a session of the Municipal Election Commission and kidnapped an OIC member in front of the SRS. Of course, it was probably a deal before. The only thing they crossed over - the vote wasn't over. If the vote had been and if she had voted against it, then they would have done damage to the SRS. The noise has appeared, of course, with your chairman of the committee group. After all, television has recorded very nicely, former, disfellowshipped SRS member Milan Bojovic, who is now a feather in this newly formed NGO Women in black or as they are already called, however, sects - can and can, and Novicki, they literally brought members of the SRS and OIC members into the car. Only when they entered the car did they realize that the vote was not completed, that she had left the OIK session, the OIK session, the deputy SRS OIK member, had entered and the session could continue. I have information that from 2,000 euros to "Astra" they paid, as they did to whom. The SRS has preserved power, thank you for asking, we are fine, Mr Nikolic - the SRS has preserved power in the municipality of Zemun and you will not be able to make the next election. In the next election, God willing, Dr. Vojislav Seselj will be back soon. Besides, that's why you got scared, that's what Natasa Kandic told you, she'll be back soon, and then from your party, as a piece when she blows off leaves in the fall -- to stay just that she was once a group of outlaws from the SRS. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds). I thank you for being tolerated, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7559	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7560	Ladies and gentlemen, I speak on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I am speaking to you, Mr. Milan Markovic, to inform you and ask you to find out in the meantime why this happened? Namely, at the meeting of the assembly of the city municipality of Zemun on 17 November 2008, meaning in accordance with the deadlines, the statutes and rules of procedure on the work of SO Zemun were adopted. You are aware that these acts are required to be published in the official list of Belgrade cities. The authorities in the municipality of Zemun have, of course, sent a copy of the adopted acts to the official list of Belgrade City and the secretary of the city municipality for talks with an official in the City Assembly, with the intention of finding out when the text of the statutes and rules of procedure will be published. The secretary of the assembly therefore called to receive this information and spoke to a Mrs. Radmila Josipovic, who gave him information that the town hall statutes would be printed in the official list of Belgrade city, with the date of November 17th 2008, but that the statutes of the city's municipality of Zemun would not be published because they filed complaints on SO Zemun's decisions, as Radmila Josipovic said, which the opposition announced would address the city's authority and the mayor, in order to introduce temporary measures and that she could not begin printing because she was ordered not to do so. You understand that in this way violently prevents the alignment of the organ organisation and the alignment of acts of the city's municipality of Zemun with the statute of the city of Belgrade, of course, in order to unlawfully introduce temporary measures. Please, Mr. Minister, that you are immediately engaged to find out what this is about, that is in your jurisdiction, and that you are telling this Mrs. Radmila Josipovic that she cannot get orders from the officials of the DS, or from the officials of the Progressive Party, but that she must work in accordance with the law. It is none of her business how it will be decided by appeal - it must publish the text of the statutes and this rule. Please do it urgently, and I apologize for the time. It's symptomatic that a citizen of Nikolic was here earlier, when he passed by, or would still be behind the pay phone, he said -- that we had lost power in Zemun, as if he knew what the District Court's decision would be on complaints by some who were excluded from the SRS. So, it's not about what I'm warning you about. Please, in half an hour, I'm going to ask you publicly again what's going on with that. (President: Time. Here, I'm done. Please make the statutes of the city municipality of Zemun, which was legally adopted at the legal session, with the assembly majority of the DSS and the SRS, published together with the other statutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7561	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a written statement, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of minorities, the New Serbia MP group, the LDP parliamentary group, the DSS parliamentary group, the SPS-JS, the SRS parliamentary group, the G 17 plus parliamentary group and the MEP group for European Serbia. We're moving on to a debate according to the application for word. The first one was the National MP Elvira Kovac, followed by the National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7562	Dear Mr Minister, Madam President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians in principle supports the draft law on associations, as according to this proposal, according to the highest European standards in this area, guarantees freedom of association and the adoption of this law is only part of the overall activities that we must implement in the process of European integration. However, we of the Duke Hungarian Union have several objections, so we have submitted eight amendments to this legal text. I'll talk about these amendments a little later, and more specifically in the discussion of details. We believe that these proposals will only specify and improve this text, and we expect the support of all of you. First of all, we would be delighted to have Mr. Minister accept these amendments here, if not, we expect you, dear colleagues, to vote for them. Finally, in our country, the freedom of association of citizens and the position and functioning of the association of citizens also took a significant place and a very important role in the overall social processes. We're aware that he's finally made so-called. the third sector, which rests on the citizens' initiative and interests in certain life issues. Today, the success of co-operation between the government and the non-governmental sector is a measure of the degree of democracy of a society. The proposed legislative solutions in this proposal move within the framework of international standards in this area. But, as I mentioned at the outset, the Union of Duke Hungarians has several grudges. First of all, we think it is necessary to bring the bill into line with the fact that a large number of members of national minorities live in the Republic of Serbia. The proposed solution does not adequately regulate issues relating to the names of those associations of citizens who form the order of the association of nationals of national minorities, as well as some other associations whose name contains certain symbols, signs or words in a foreign language, or in a dead language. By prescribing the obligation to translate these associations into Serbian, writing these names with Cyrillic, it would result in very confusing, and in some situations and ridiculous, or unserious names of the association. We have set a concrete example in our amendment, but just think of some examples, a guy that fast foodess as I said. We also believe, as we heard in the presentation of Mr. Pastor, regardless of the explanation we received from Mr. Minister a few hours ago, that the supervision of the work of the association from the territory of the Autonomous Province should be carried out by the competent authority of the Autonomous Province administration as a trusted job, in order to comply with this bill with the principles of decentralisation. The next proposal concerns the situation of 'the silence of the administration', as this bill does not provide for a solution to the entry. However, without this evidence of registration in the register, associations created in this way could not possibly get the home number, the FIB, to open their current account, etc., precisely because all of these procedures require that copy of the register which proves their existence as legal persons entered in the register. We are all aware that citizens' associations as non-profit organisations are making the most of the various donations they receive in various competitions, as well as from voluntary contributions, as we have heard. Under the Law on Taxes on the property of this association, unfortunately, they have to pay inheritance and gift taxes. We of the Grand Duchy of Hungarians propose to abolish the obligation to pay inheritance and gift taxes. Furthermore, these associations have to report to a large number of competitions, and therefore they have to draw up various documents, and therefore they have to pay some more taxes. So, our next proposal is to abolish the obligation to pay the republican administrative fees. What I would like to point out is the termination of the association, i.e. the transfer of their assets after their termination. The proposal, which is not disputed, states that the recipient of the property cannot be determined by anyone, but of course, that property must continue to serve approximately the same objectives, i.e. belonging to those organisations that have similar objectives. However, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians cannot agree with the provision that only a domestic, non-profit legal person established to achieve similar or similar objectives can obtain this property. We believe that a better solution would be for this law to leave the possibility and national councils of national minorities, as well as traditional churches and religious communities, to become recipients of the association's assets in the event of its termination. This is what we propose, on the one hand, because the objectives of many associations are very similar to the objectives of national councils or the objectives of traditional churches and religious communities, and this is usually the current situation, so we think the proposed solution without including churches and national councils of national minorities would actually be a step back. As mentioned at the outset, the adoption of the Association Law is one of the unfulfilled obligations of the Republic of Serbia and as regards European integration, but it is committed by joining the Council of Europe. All reports of representatives from the Council of Europe on the progress of the Republic of Serbia, our country, in carrying out its duties and obligations, unfortunately, say very little has been done with us so far regarding the legal arrangement of freedom of association. The adoption of the Association Law, therefore, stems from all of our obligations under European integration, and of course, as we have heard from previous speakers, is a long-awaited and very significant new legal framework for the establishment, operation and functioning of these associations, given that the rules in force so far do not know exactly the total number of existing associations, and nor do they regulate many important other issues, particularly issues relating to the position of foreign associations. Therefore, to conclude, the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will vote in principle on this bill, but we also propose to Mr. Minister as a representative of the Government here and all of you, dear colleagues, to support our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7563	The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, I welcome the adoption of this law, although it has been announced as a bit of a cabalistic law, because we have heard the information that every time this law entered the procedure the government has fallen and imagine and now that it is in the process and before the adoption, we have an announcement of a review of the government's trust, so we can immediately call it cabalistic law. What is good in this law and I welcome first of all Mr. Minister's very good intentions to regulate an important area in the functioning of the state, this is the right to association of citizens and this is a partner relationship between the state and the civil sector. Of course, I think the state has had partner relations with its military sector as well. What I'm going to look back on in my discussion, that's what I've submitted and the amendment and what I think is missing in this law, even I think Mr. Minister has agreed to, but we just haven't found a better solution at this point. This is Article 19, which allows for the association of minors of 14 years of age. What I can say is, I speak on behalf of my MP group of NS, which we agreed on when we submitted amendments, expecting understanding and support for these amendments, it is that we do not have a national youth strategy first. You know, we have big problems, I'm saying that as someone who's been working with this age for 25 years, with young people or big problems for young people, this society has imposed no other problems. As far as we've all been involved, as far as we're responsible, it's obvious. We are a home that is obliged to help legal solutions make the state work better. Youngsters need to be helped with a lot of things. Some high standards should be allowed for youth. I agree with what Mr. Minister said when he was 14, someone was partly responsible, that when he was 15 years old, he was even 16 years old, even biologically mature to start a family, and that's probably how it is in the whole world because biology doesn't know those boundaries of barriers that we're setting. But, for example, some countries in the EU that have the same laws have differently set their national strategy to protect young people and could be examples of this. Well, for example, in a German youth up to 18, he can't be on his own in town at night, he can't get out. In one Serbia, fourteen-year-olds often return home at five in the morning. Not to tell you, there are a lot of doctors here and they'll agree with what I say, how healthful it is, how psychologically dangerous it is, as much as I'm allowed to destructively destroy our youth. Our youth, our youth, our future, is the most sensitive part of this law. Mr. Minister was very cooperative there and said he would accept some solution that could be offered, even if this amendment was not adopted. Then I suggested something to think about and what I suggest to Mr. Minister to think about, and very quickly approach some concrete solution, which is to pass a special law that regulates the association of minors. To show concern and supervision because why we should be more advanced Germans already in the EU. If we look up to all of them, so let's copy some good example that can really help us, who can truly protect who he is and in the name of what we're doing, which is our future. We have a big problem in society with these young people, and when we talk about association, I'm afraid there will be abuses spoken of by the predecessors here, I don't want to repeat myself, and Mr. Minister was right when he said that you can't prevent someone if they want to abuse something, that's something that goes with the use, there's always going to be the possibility of abuse, but we certainly have to have a legal framework and legal opportunity to sanction possible consequences, because they are a warning and they are the whip that some still maintains on this side of the law, or at least reduces attempts in this sense. We're facing each other, and you're all witnesses on a daily basis, we've always got a bunch of newspapers here, that happens to us, like two weeks ago in a town in Serbia, that three minors have joined together, so some people have been robbed, with a man deprived of life, they hurt his wife badly, and that's the kind of association, and that's just three, that's exactly the number that we're going to talk about a lot later. They're not even registered, they're a terrible one, they're even a bit of a cartoon, but it's terrible and it's our everyday life. That's something we have to predict when we give young people great rights. The rights stem from duty and duty. This member of the law was certainly meant to be coherent or to think about an alternative solution, certainly in coordination with the Ministry of Education, because we have a lot of problems precisely in the laws governing the education relationship. We've annulled some of the things in elementary schools, we've annulled an evaluation of the government that used to go on average, and it doesn't come in anymore. That, believe me, is the only act that we've introduced into school. We've caused huge problems in school functioning, so I don't tell you to take down the school's authority. It is not good to go too far in giving some freedoms, if we are not able to create appropriate mechanisms, for which people will know, above all young people, that these freedoms are properly, humanely and sincerely exploited and that it is to the general satisfaction of all of us. That's what I was going to say and invite you to do exactly that, if you don't support this amendment, and Mr. Minister has announced it to me, I didn't want to pull it back, I wanted to talk about it, that certainly Mr. Minister, who showed great understanding and good will, would consider the possibility of a legal act that would regulate this most sensitive area, believe me, the most important area, the association of young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7565	I would like to inform you that the second, third and fourth session of the Privatisation Committee, which was called for on 29 October 2008, will take place today on 19 November 2008, at 1400 hours at the Blue Salon. The word now has a People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7566	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as has already been announced, the LDP will support this law. We think it's very good that he arrived in front of the MPs. We wish he had arrived earlier, we talked about it today, and in the previous period, we pointed out that it was important for a law like this to come before the MPs as soon as possible or to live. We believe that any association of citizens in the civil sector is good and private society, and it is good for all citizens. The LDP when proposing a law to this assembly has the practice of contacting or co-operating with civil sector experts every time. We experience in this way that we really need the expertise to be ahead of politics, not in policy terms, as we once have the opportunity to see. Yesterday we received confirmation of the necessity of a law like this, or of the necessity of a law like this, to fully live, right here in the congregation. The result is what happens in this society. We had a situation, I have to get back to it, because it just completely justifies the citizens' association, like the consumer association, and so the gas consumer association. We have a situation where the top people of the state announce the collection of gas of 60%, then we have public reactions, and then we have heads of state, prime ministers, the Minister of Energy, who say -- we're going to allow gas to be paid in two wars, after six months, we're going to pay for this collection in fact, to relieve the citizens, etc. Then we have November when they arrive at the gas bill and when we actually see that these bills are not divided as promised, it means 62.5 and 37.5, but that the citizens got a full price of gas. Then what happens and why am I saying that? The director of Srbigas comes in here and tells us the next thing -- it's the distributors, and I'm asking them on behalf of "Serbiagas" that all citizens report to "Serbiagas" to be regulated by these accounts, i.e. to solve the problem that exists. This shows us the following, a complete irresponsibility, a complete coup against the citizens to solve a problem that, frankly, they have not caused anything. Because of this, the existence of such an association, in Vojvodina, we have a large number of villages that have been gassed, where citizens themselves have paid for and financed gasification. We believe that from this context, it is good that, let's say, only three citizens can establish one association, because we have villages where a small number of citizens have gassed their households, and that it would be great to be able to join in and after they join together that they can contact a state-owned company, i.e. a public enterprise, a little bit more owned by the Republic of Serbia, but companies they say that although they respected the government's decision, we have seen in the end that it is not. That is why it is very important for this law to live, not only to remain a legal framework without purpose, because this is a European law. Even though it is not one of those European laws, or laws that are necessary for the sake of our European integration, but this law in full terms promotes European values, and European standards, and therefore LDP will support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7567	The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic, followed by MP Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7568	Dear Members of Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Associations which regulates the legal position of voluntary NGOs, non-profit organisations established for the achievement of a common or general public interest, there is the lack of separation between associations established for the achievement of the common, narrow interest of the b-association that has been acting or has only been established for decades in order to achieve a much wider general and public interest. In the bill of law, we have a special chapter dedicated to foreign associations, chapter 8. This is good, but the specific status of an association whose operation is not only of a group of citizens, but also of a broader general interest has not earned a particular chapter or special benefit. All provisions of the law relating to associations acting in the common interest have almost the same rights as associations whose activity is in the interests of the whole society, of all citizens and of the state. I had in mind primarily art associations that function half a century and over, as well as those that have recently been established or will be established, but also all other associations whose activity is in the interests of the entire society. Instead of a special chapter for associations whose activity is of public and general interest we have only one subtitle - means to realise the programme of public interest. Article 36 defines that the budget of the Republic of Serbia can finance projects of an association that are of public interest and will receive these funds on the basis of a publicly implemented competition. Only in this article with social protection programmes, protection of persons with disabilities, social care for children, environmental protection, etc. mentions culture. All other provisions of the law, which concern the working conditions of artistic and other associations whose activity is of public and general interest, concern the same association whose activity is of common interest, so to society of much interest. For programmes of public interest, competition and public competition must be applied and report that the appropriations have been used on purpose, which I absolutely agree with. Associations established under the applicable laws continue to work as associations and after the adoption of the new law. If they wish to retain legal personality status, they must be entered in the register run by the competent ministry, but are not required to do so. Associations can acquire their own property from membership fees, voluntary revenues, donations and gifts, financial subsidies, leaveovers, interest on stakes, leases, dividends. The profits obtained from their business, commercial activities cannot be allocated to founders, members, directors, employees. I can only invest them in the actions they listed in their statutes, only to achieve publicly declared objectives, which we also absolutely agree on. In the event that the association, for any reason, ceases its work, because it decides either to go bankrupt or does not carry out its activities in accordance with its own statute, its property becomes property of the Republic of Serbia, and its use belongs to the local self-government unit on whose territory the headquarters is located. Another option is to define the association by its statutes to whom it transfers acquired assets in the event of suspension or termination of work, provided that they carry out similar activities. The Register of All Associations is run by the Ministry of Administration Affairs, and can also be transferred as a trusted job to the Autonomous Province, Article 26. This article is not good, which is what it's already been about. Serbia has two, not one province. There is another danger that over time we may lose the union's unique registry. Article 13 drew my attention because of an amendment. This member of the law says that the name of the association must be in Serbian and Cyrillic. Article 2 of the same law -- it can also be in the language and letter of national minorities, after the name of the association in Serbian and Cyrillic letters. The right of national minorities to their own language and the letter is fully respected. The amendment, however, requires that the association be entered into an official state registry in a mixed language. A little in Serbian and Cyrillic, a little in a foreign, living or dead language, and a little in minority language if the term is used in the name of the association is inconclusive. Since this is my profession, believe me, that excellent translators have successfully translated much more difficult texts than the names of the association. As an illustration of the need for this amendment, I would recommend that my colleagues address an excellent translator, my friend, Mr. Arpad Vick, as an inconclusive expression in Hungarian. He will certainly find an adequate expression in Serbian for an untranslated term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7569	The word has a minister, Mr. Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7570	Shortly, since Mrs Stojanovic pointed out one thing that we've thought a lot about, which is a matter of public interest. Believe me, then we asked a little bit more, because my idea was originally how to separate not so much in this part where you mentioned it, but in the part where we talk about programs of public interest. But what I got as persuasion from people, experts who dealt with this parallel-law, more or less in all countries in transition, where we have on one side an inherited social organization and this new one, it's such a conflict that it's just an idea to make any distinction that I just can't describe it to you. Really, however you go to make some determinations by which you will simply make your arguments fall asleep in some direction. We finally had to give it up, even with these criteria. You see how we cited these criteria of public interest, we said they are particularly considered, because everyone just comes up with the idea -- but why not. Everyone has a intention and has a good argument to explain to you that what his common interest is in some way is also a general interest. I appreciate what you've said, but I'm telling you, we've also faced an insurmountable obstacle here, and that's to find that distinctive element and execute division in public and in common.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7571	The People's Messenger Zoran Bortic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7572	The respected chairman, respected ministers and representatives of the government, esteemed fellow MPs, the tradition of the choir and the agreement established in the political being of the Serbian people, and based also in all the constitutions of modern Serbia, from the Sretenjski Constitution to today, finds its own political expression in the bill of law that we are talking about today. The Serbian people in their history had a common practice of fighting for their interests through various forms of organisation and presenting them in different forms to the state. Depending on Serbia's state order, the people's organised initiative has also come across different solutions. It was once rejected without hearing, and on other occasions it was a driver of social change in Serbia. From the Mother of Serbia, the Serbian Literature Association, the Serbian Cultural Club, to today's citizens' associations, this citizens' initiative has driven positive changes in society and has been the bearer of the critical consciousness in Serbia that led to progress. In this sense, today's law represents a good legal basis for regulating and supporting the free will initiative of Serbian citizens and its associations. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support the bill, because we believe that the state must provide good assumptions and support for the launch of every citizens' initiative. With this in mind, we are also obliged to point out that norms, or laws, must not be an obstacle to the free and creative will of citizens to come together about ideas and to move them to realize them. This does not in any way mean that within these initiatives, the state should allow the presentation of ideas that are against the common interests of Serbian citizens, the preservation of the country's identity and integrity. The state must not allow the display of racial, religious and national hatred, as well as the forms of fascist behaviour of certain groups, which have never had a more significant foothold in our society. Similarly, the state must not allow citizens' free initiatives to form social groups and influences that will lead to destabilising Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. For the sake of the world of surprise, I believe that the law on associations of citizens, enriched by amendments to the debate at this session, should be adopted. It is not necessary to allow under the advent of the urgency of the adoption of this law to steal or produce weaknesses that will leave behind long-term and inexplicable consequences. As one such weakness, I consider the proposal for a legal norm in Article 10(1) of the Law that only three citizens can form an association and that only one of those three founders must have a seat, or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this regulation can be a source and a legal framework for many of the problems that could arise in the future from such an organisation of the Association of Citizens and should therefore be adapted to the general interest of the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7573	The word has a folk MP Petar Jojic, followed by MP Miljan Rangelovic. I am informing the MPs that Minister Milan Markovic is asking permission to leave because of the signing of the contract and the previous commitments in the government, since he scheduled it at a time when we normally have a break, since today we are only working until 17.00 hours, and under the agreement we will work without a break, so if no one has an explicit objection, then they would allow the minister to be absent for as long as it needs to carry out the meeting and the commitments made earlier. Excuse me, MP, for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7574	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister Markovic, this is the first step in our judicial system, in the rule of law and in the legal order, to regulate in one appropriate way the relations of the association with the state. I, Mr. Minister, have done a study involving 11 states, i.e. Austria, Belgium, Greece, Estonia, Italy, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Sweden and Spain, and developed a common representation of national regulations on associations. What to say is, this law on associations is, unlike the existing law on associations, far more perfect and precise. However, in the opinion of the SRS and its MPs, we believe it is necessary to pass a special law on foreign NGOs in the Republic of Serbia. In our opinion, it should be regulated that a foreign NGO, within the meaning of a new law, is a legal person established and registered under the regulations of that State, in order to achieve objectives in the field of humanitarian activities, health, education, science and culture, environmental protection, protection and the exercise of human and citizen rights and other activities in the general social interest, whose activity is not intended to obtain and distribute profits. This is something that must be regulated by a special law, because if the predecessors pointed out that we have more than 2,000 different associations, therefore, a foreign NGO must have a specific and special regulation by which it should be arranged and their association. Foreign NGOs can act freely on the territory of the Republic of Serbia if their activity, as we believe from the SRS, is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This here in law is not precise with foreign associations that they can act, but only on condition that they do not act against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And this law that should be passed, and other regulations, therefore, shall be in accordance with both the Constitution and the law. Associations must act, according to the proposal of this law, in accordance with the law. A foreign NGO cannot act politically in the Republic of Serbia. It's something that should have been entered into this bill of yours, or acted to make a profit. A citizen of the Republic of Serbia cannot manage, in our opinion, a foreign NGO or represent it. Organisations established by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the achievement of freedom, political, trade union and other activities, cannot be collective members of foreign NGOs' representations in Serbia. It should be arranged with one law. And what's the enrolment? And in the case of enrolment, the SRS has one proposal and thinks it can be improved. Representatives of foreign NGOs operating in the Republic of Serbia are being managed by the registry. It's okay. It's in those six members, among other things, to register. It has been overlooked or you have missed that a foreign NGO cannot start working in the Republic of Serbia before entering its representation in the register, from this position I had previously said. Mr. Minister, what does it take to enroll? You have some provisions that you and the proposal have foreseen. However, I am saying this in order to remove from this bill the processing of this section concerning the parties to the association and the non-governmental organisation. This has to be done in perfection, so there is no abuse at all. In Austria, England, Germany, Great Britain or, for example, Spain, if someone has made a gift to the association or to an NGO of up to 50,000 pesetas, must go to the approval of the Secretary of Resort. We think the area should be arranged, if it's a register and registration, so it has to go through the Foreign Ministry. It's something that our country should have these relations with, when it comes to applying for registration in the register, and the competent authority of the administration, somewhere it's a regulated - competent authority of the administration, and in some countries it's regulated that it's a jurisdiction to be prescribed by a sublegal act by a minister in charge of administration or by a minister in charge of justice. So I said what everything should contain, although it did, but it could still be arranged and precise, to make it a clearer definition, a norm. Mr. Minister, you know very well, because you are a lawyer with experience, that the norm must be clear, precise, unequivocal and be in practice easy to apply. "The register shall be entered: the name of a foreign NGO; the country in which the organisation is registered and the head office of the organisation in that country; the name of the person authorised to represent the foreign NGO in the Republic of Serbia, its nationality, the name of one parent, the place and date of birth, the home address and place of residence and address in the Republic of Serbia; the address of the seat of the representative of the foreign NGO in the Republic of Serbia; the number and date of the decision to register and the number and date of the resolution on the removal from the register." So one norm and one member can be taxed and arranged. Ladies and gentlemen, due to limited time, because my colleagues need to speak, I will talk about the matter of these provisions and the proposal for this law on the occasion of their arrival on the agenda of the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7575	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7576	I think the idea of special legislation regulating the work of foreign associations is legitimate. We just got out of this room and talked about it. We at the Ministry will consider all possibilities and needs to possibly prepare such a regulation. What I want to say again, and I think that you correctly said in your statement, for now and in this law, we shouldn't have too much to worry about. We are very well regulated by this law on the issue of foreign representation, representation of a foreign association, and we explicitly foresee a ban on work in all objectives and actions that are contrary to our Constitution and this law. Therefore, the framework is good for me, but I think your idea is also good, and until we make a decision to do such a new law, I think this law, when it comes to foreign representation, will serve its purpose. I hope you're okay with that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7577	The word has a folk MP, Miljan Rangelovic, and after that, MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7578	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I want to underline that this law is very well written and that is why today I am not going to deal with the very form of this law, but I am going to try to talk about the impact of this law on real and real life. The Law on Associations, if we adopt it as it is, can be a good example of active policy in practice. If you are asking why the non-governmental or civil sector has not been more influential in our society, the answer may be in the fact that this area has been governed by laws written in the days of the SFRY. We have two such laws, we have minor changes and additions to these laws. However, I think now is the time to pass a new law. For G17 plus, the adoption of the law on associations is a condition for achieving the freedom of association of citizens, which is the right of our citizens guaranteed by our Constitution. We believe this law will allow all our citizens to improve their lives by association and their ideas, to make all their ideas come true, all their desires. Citizens' associations in the field of protection of human rights, in the field of environment, tourism, in the area of education, have made their full contribution and have greatly helped the dignity and quality of life of all our citizens. We believe that civil society is the engine of positive change in our society and NGOs are definitely the right voice of the people. They are also constructive critics, both government and assembly, and many other state institutions, and local institutions, of course. I'm particularly interested in three topics, which I'm going to talk about today. First of all, it is very good that this law reduces the number of necessary founders from ten to three. It is very good that this law allows a decade of 14 years of age to come together and it is very good that this law gives the chance to end the country's paternalism towards the citizens once. The adoption of this law makes it essential to make it easier for NGOs to register. Believe it wasn't easy to find ten people who wanted to be the founders of some NGO that would solve their problems. Of course, they later wanted to be members, but they did not want to be founders. Now we've solved that problem. We are satisfied with the solution offered, because the minimum number of founders, i.e. three people, be quite enough to have some ideas that they couldn't do so far finally come true. I am particularly pleased that the founders of NGOs, or associations of citizens, can also be children of 14 years of age. We must give the children a chance to be, first of all, responsible for themselves, but also to be responsible for our society. That's how we have to teach them. I consider this the last one very important, because youth NGOs are the voice of young people, they are a place where young people can learn more and where they can get a chance to really and realistically influence the solution to their problems. The time when the state took care of each individual is long behind us. Serbian citizens must move forward with modern tendencies. The system of values in our society and the absolute acceptance of social irresponsibility must be completed once. Also, such a system of values for the minority, who once wanted to be active and to influence the decision-making sector, simply did not give an opportunity. I'm saying it's not good for the state to treat citizens like children. It's not good and it's very expensive. We need to see this law as another means to make systemic changes in our society. We want a strong and modern state, and a strong and modern state is only possible with a strong civil sector. The relationship between the state and the civil sector must be based on a partnership level. It has to be a partnership, because it's the only way to solve the most difficult problems really quality and much faster. We in G17 plus believe that, by adopting the Association Law, an important step towards democratisation of our society will be taken, an important step towards Serbia's EU accession. By adopting this law, we fulfill another obligation when we join the Council of Europe. This law, which has been waiting for more than 15 years, is both for both the state and the civil sector. I hope that the adoption of this law will also end the lack of understanding in the mutual understanding of the civil sector and of the state. The freedom of association guaranteed by this law is, on the one hand, limited, and limited by the fact that freedom of other people cannot be violated, is limited in the sense that no one can team up to violate the constitutional order of our country, in order to destroy the territorial integrity of our country, in order to disrupt racial, religious and national intolerance. This law sends a positive signal to the government, because the essence of democracy is that everyone has the right to think, to speak and to do what they think is right. By adopting this law, the Assembly will show that it is aware of the impact of the civil sector and the importance of the civil sector for our country. I sincerely hope that this law will pave the way for the constructive functioning of NGOs, because they as such need all of us and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7579	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7580	Dear Mrs. Comic, first of all, I would like to take advantage of my time after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225. and 226. The International Court of Justice in The Hague has accepted that Croatia is being tried for genocide at the request of Serbia, probably because 400,000 Serbs were expelled. The same court, which has declared incompetent over Serbia's suit against NATO members over the bombing, now approves of Croatia's suit. It has been said that unless the two states agree on an extra-judicial settlement, Serbia will be left with a period of at least a year to prepare defences and charges against Croatia for genocide against Serbs. I request information from the foreign and judicial departments, who will form a defence team for Serbia and whether it will find experts in the ruling coalition. Can I go on now? One of the reasons why I am pleased to put this bill on the agenda is the fact that when this law enters the procedure, the government falls. We may not even have to wait until next Friday, November 28th, to vote for no confidence in the government. However, it is a very interesting secret link between the seismic movements in the government and the attempt to control the state put all associations, especially the famous NGO. Since this government is tycoon and the state is in fact not or must not have instruments to control NGOs, it is no wonder that as soon as the government tries to bring order and the public into the way it registers, finance, the business books of some NGOs, there is a threat that the government cuts the branch on which it sits. At this point, due to the control problem, there is currently no known number of NGOs, but there are supposed to be some 30,000 breaths. The next question, to which there is no answer, is how much is currently being allocated from the budget for NGOs. The answer is again on the principle of ping-pong balls, not under the Ministry of Local Self-Government's jurisdiction, but the Ministry of Finance. It turns out that the state is saving by not hiring workers in the government sector and paying parallelly for NGOs, their projects and consulting services. To be clear, many of these NGOs really work fairly and unprofitablely, often struggling with windmills and showing the skill of the impossible, by correcting numerous segments of social care. Associations like Live Vertically, fighting for the rights of persons with disabilities, Association of Distrophysicists, paraplegics, blind and impaired "Homer", Movement to protect children and families from sects, various environmental organisations, Young Researchers, are virtually all organisations that really work humanitarianally and need the help of society and financial support of a wider social community. On the other hand, however, we have these controversial NGOs that have somehow ruined the image of all those working honestly. It is, of course, primarily four in public very well known, and known for their hatred, organizations that lead once again known in the people, four riders of the Serbian apocalypse. On this occasion, I must quote my dear friend, the football legend of Dulet Savić, who gave the next definition of NGOs run by Sonja, Natas, Biljan and Bork. "These are not NGOs, these are the organisations of the governments of some other countries and secret services run by women who are only being led as women," Dule Savic said. As of yesterday on Croatian television for the shameful acceptance of Croatia's lawsuit against Serbia, they hosted as a well-coordinated twin Bruno Vekaric, who did not even release the mime and let alone the voice, when Sonja Biserko denied crimes against Serbs in Bratunc and Sarajevo victims. The prize question is who is the representative of the NGO, Sonja and its Helsinki Committee or Bruno Vekaric, who, based on his stance, acted more as a spokesman for the NGO than the prosecution. In Article 2, this law defines the association as a voluntary NGO, based on the freedom of association, in order to achieve a common objective or general interest, which is not prohibited by the Constitution or by law. Was it really in line with the Constitution and the law that the very virtue of Natasa Kandic, at the invitation of terrorist Thaci, came yesterday in response to the question of the Security Committee and my own personal confirmation and the Interior Minister Dacic went to the celebration of the so-called declaration. the independent state of Kosovo, and not as some white-world N.K., but as president of the humanitarian law fund. If Thaci is a terrorist and there is an active warrant for Serbia's MUP for a serious crime against Serbia's constitutional order and security, then going to his invitation and supporting his work is actually complicity in the crime. In any normal country that respects its constitution and criminal law, Natasa Kandic would be arrested upon her return from our southern province, and a legitimate request would be made to review the legality of her association's activities. Instead, she has treatment like we're in India. It's like it's a sacred cow. Article 3 of this law states that the objectives of the association cannot be aimed at destroying the constitutional order and territorial integrity of Serbia, so Natasha is back in prison, but also at encouraging inequality, hatred and intolerance based on national, religious and other belongings. (President: National MPs, time available to your parliamentary group is over. 15 seconds, because we just got to Sonja Biserko, and that's really important. This already brings the interest of Sonja Biserko, whose Helsinki Committee for Human Rights published a famous annual report for 2007 and a list of shootings found in fact by all Serbian intellectuals who ever existed. The sharp competition Sonja and this secret Hellsin society hate more: Kostunica or SPC. You look at either side and on each side mentions this Kostunica, this SPC, not to mention Professor. Samardzic, Dulet Savić, Slobodan Antonic, Djorđa Vukadinovic, the bishop of Artemia, the bishop of Atanasija Jevtic, of course, and the lighthouses, St. Nikola Velimirovic and Justin Popovic. With the anti-Serbian mood expressed through the list of incomparable and this godly attitude towards each sanctity, the hatred of Russia and everything that comes from it has been emphasized, with precise instructions on how to bring down an energy agreement so as not to bring Serbia's excessive russification. Hate in this publication is so dense that it can simply be cut with scissors. After everything that's been said (I'm sorry, I'm missing this report) and the pearly Sonja and her secret Hellish society... (President: seven minutes. ) could not continue to function as an association in any normal country. If we weren't using Putin's methods, I don't think Obama would allow this kind of devastation of religion, both national and any other impatience.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7581	National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7582	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not understand why you have not responded to this loss of my predecessor, or predecessor. The fact that she quoted her most speaks only of her. I don't think there's really a need to tolerate that kind of behavior, that kind of talk here, that kind of talk about anyone. Not wanting to challenge her opinion that she has on one part of NGOs, everyone has an opinion. But the way she talked, by dragging it through someone else's quote, I don't think it's correct, that it's kind of jeopardizing the dignity of this congregation. That's why I'm asking you next time, if you don't want to do it right now, to react to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7583	The MP chose style, quoting Dulet Savic, and I can hardly say the warning measure in such a context. Everyone chooses their own style. A man is a style, until very clearly the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which may have been at the border, but is not the limit that has been crossed. He also wants to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament, Mr. Aleksandra Jankovic, and he receives his word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7584	It's interesting that Mr. Maras always appears somehow as a representative of the character and works of these four riders of the Serbian apocalypse, and I'm not going to quote it by the author, it's just my impression. Mr. Maras, I don't know if you've read this book of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights. It's an interesting front page. This is the 2007 report. Serbia is portrayed as an ice dream that has fallen off Kosovo. So no such book in any normal country that respects its constitution could be published. However, what are the intentions and who are mentors of this Helsinki secret society are seen on page 116, you have not read, in conclusions and recommendations, where it says so – representatives of such NGOs, this is true for the Helsinki Committee, the YUKO Humanitarian Law Fund, the only representatives of a society that is authentically and sincerely support and represent the value system on which modern European civilization rests. The EU and other international organisations should expand dialogue with these organisations and promote them to their partners on certain issues. Neither are you, Mr. Maras, a representative who automatically supports and represents the value system on which modern European civilization rests, so you see.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7585	National MP Maras had the right to point out his objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in your performance, and MP Slobodan Maras wishes to speak of the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to receive word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7586	I'm asking for a replica. Apparently, Mrs. Jankovic didn't understand what I said. Number one, I've never been out to defend any person mentioned here, and especially mentioned by your MP group. I went out here to defend one right, and that's the right to talk about women in this way, the way you chose to talk, I repeat, the most talk about you. I didn't go out to defend any person, I was just defending the right to speak with dignity here about any person who either sits here or doesn't sit here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7587	We're continuing the debate by applying in principle. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, followed by a National MP, Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7588	Madam Chairman, first of all, I am very sorry that Mr. Secretary is not here, although I respect that he worked actively and participated here, because we were able to continue what we had in our previous meeting when he introduced his law began, and these are some misunderstandings and disagreements that might have some result. I want to say that today in Serbia, no one knows reliably how many associations there are, some with a very long tradition, such as the Association of Engineers and Technicians of 1868 or the Hunting Union of 1896, and we are aware that in the 1990s, a large number of NGOs and associations have come into existence and they come into existence until today. In fact, it created a very strong third sector that rests precisely on the citizens' interest, their interest in certain life issues and on their citizens' initiative. This third sector is becoming a real partner to the state. We are aware of this and at this point it is in this country, although uncovered by legal regulations, a partner state, in those areas where there is usually some strong interest and need of citizens, and the whole state system that is quite slow, rigid and difficultly efficient cannot give some kind of quick and simple answer. I mean, for example, there are various centres to support people with disabilities, various environmental movements, human rights and freedoms. The general problem of Serbia, up to the proposal of this law, was that there is no single legislation and that we are in charge of very old laws in the 1980s, 1990s. These laws are made under other circumstances, another social system, another economic system and cannot absolutely meet those needs of modern society and modern movements. I would not talk about these laws, simply because so many times there have been words about it, but I want to say that as a country, we had problems with how and where to put foreign associations' representations, which came to Serbia's territory, and that was partly covered by the Foreign Movement Act, in part by some decisions, so that the state itself had no instruments to control these associations, and that is one of the reasons why citizens often complained about it. It's very good that today we have this bill of law, simply because in one place it defines all these problems and should be brought in. The basis for the adoption of this law is our Mitrovica Constitution, brought at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and very high standards of rights and freedoms that have been brought into this Constitution and which are presented, and which actually predict that rights and freedoms go all the way until they threaten the rights and freedoms of others. The constitution also envisioned the possibility of banning the work of various associations and simply gave jurisdiction to the Constitutional Court, and it is very explicitly said, and I see that it is entered into this law, what it is that can lead to the shutting down of organisations, I will later talk about it when I speak about this part of the ban on various organisations. So I have to say that the proposal for this law came from a very precise principle, which is the principle of freedom of association and freedom for citizens within a single association to set their own relationships and regulate each other's ways of functioning internal relations in the association. All associations may or may not have to be entered in the register run by the Ministry responsible for the administration and those organisations registered shall receive legal status of the person and all that goes with it. Those who do not register shall be subject to legal rules on civil partnership. What I understand, that's all I've said so far. What I do not understand is the fact that the promoter predicted that for associations whose seats are located in the territory of Vojvodina one other registry, which the competent ministry entrusted the work to the AP Vojvodina, with the reason that it is decentralisation, that Vojvodina must have insight into who such associations are, who is the founder, what is their goal, how they function and everything else. Those arguments didn't satisfy me, because that logic, if that's logic, and local self-government also has entrusted jobs, is also the goal of all of us decentralisation, so local self-government could do other jobs. The local self-government is also very interested in who in the territory of the local self-government, what organizations and associations are real, in fact, it's only associations, who's the founder, what they're doing. If that makes sense, then there's some conflict in this part of it. Since this is not logical, it is not intended for local self-government to do so, then we only come to the conclusion that the reason can be purely political, or there is one political agreement that those promises made by DS in Vojvodina are fulfilled and that is the only reason why this is all happening. Especially that is what convinces me of the next attitude. First, faster, more efficient and economical is run by a central register. It is simply the need of one country to have one such registry, and the proposer now in the second part, when it comes to the representations of foreign associations, predicts that only one register is being run. The simplest proposer was here somewhere in that relationship that the DSS is now discussing in this way. What is also controversial for the DSS are the solutions offered by the law in the area of minors. So, the bill says that underage persons up to 14 can be the founders of the association, with the approved consent of the legal representative, and I understand that this is a certified consent, and says that a minor up to 14 years of age with the consent of a legal representative can join the association. It is clear to me that there is nothing in question here from the point of view of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and there would be nothing controversial about giving the rights and freedom to those young people, but it was simply necessary for the Proposer to provide for one model of protection of minors from all kinds of abuses. This is very important for every society, especially for a transition society like Serbia and all the problems we have with young people, precisely because the state does not have legal frameworks that it could adhere to. Speaking of abuse, I simply have to say that today is the World Day for Prevention of Child Abuse, and when I call on this Convention on the Rights of the Child, in this Convention, we have other rights in this Convention than the right to freedom of association which are precisely concerned that the State, or the parent, have to make sure that they are neither abused, nor victims of human trafficking, nor any other kind of abuse. When I mentioned an example, here's an example that we all heard a few months ago. There is a French humanitarian organization called Zoya’s ark, which for a time worked in African countries that were affected by the war and represented itself as a humanitarian organization whose task was to help children in these areas and to find parents, or guardians in Europe, for certain children whose parents died. It was a terrible scandal when it was discovered that behind such a humanitarian organization was a chain of pedophile. A similar problem was with a Dutch organization called Martin, and several dozen children were victims of the humanitarian organization. Now you can imagine what can happen to children's data. Watch out, every association, when you become a member of it, lets you answer some questionnaire or survey paper in which you enter all the information about yourself, about your parents and everything else. So every organization, every association prescribes what the content of that survey list is and it can be such that the data that corresponds to it can be obtained. So what can happen to those children's data, when we figure out that the organization that presented itself as a humanitarian is not humanitarian at all? It has been explained to me that the data are protected and that the parent, or legal representative, gives a certified confirmation that he knows what I am concerned about, because we have a problem with highly mutated organizations and associations, where he has to worry about whom we trust our children. It's just that sometimes a parent isn't in a position to know what it's all about, and he's never been informed of the best. I just thought of all of this just because we had just one law that talked about people's data and where we saw that the completely uncontrollable data of all of us girls from all of the institutions. That's why the DSS thinks it's totally okay that acquired children's rights remain. We have no objection to children having the rights offered by the Convention and which they should have, but that the promoter is obliged and the state is obliged to take responsibility and offer a completely reliable way of protecting children and children themselves. I'd like to present another piece of information that concerns this particular area of data protection of the members of the association. From what I've seen in this bill, I simply think that I didn't see well, that there's no procedure for putting down documentation and keeping records of those associations that are shutting down, that cease to exist. There's a very precise procedure here for eradicating the association, but what happens to the lists of members of that association when the organization is shut down? To whom do they belong, who can use them, and in what way? It's very important and I think we need to have an answer to that. For example, associations dealing with talented children have safe lists. We are witnessing that there are lists of talented children in this country. I think it's a strategic issue for every country and for a country in which talented children should make progress in the future. It's not a good thing it's uncontrollably pouring all that out of this country. It is an extremely important part of the law relating to the reasons for the ban on the association. Of course, here I was saying a little bit, when I was talking about what the Constitution offers as a model, or what it predicts, which are reasons, I think it's very important to say it here -- means all the rights and freedoms of people for association, but until as long as these rights and their freedoms threaten other citizens' rights and freedoms; then if these associations call for the collapse of constitutional order; if they violate our territorial integrity; if they challenge and encourage racial, national and religious hatred, hatred based on any kind of diversity. Now my question is very practical. The bill stipulates that over the next 18 months all associations that exist in Serbia's territory are reregistered. What's going to happen to those associations that just fit these conditions here that are listed for erasing from the organization register, actually to stop working? My colleague, Aleksandra Jankovic, mentioned one, which apparently worked for so many years at breaking and the state, and our territorial integrity and everything else threatened other people's rights and freedoms, putting them on some lists that remind them of the early twentieth century. So I think that's the answer we need to get here. So, the DSS thinks the bill is good in front of us, that it's important that it's in front of us, but with everything we've said today. I think we've constructively raised criticism and I don't think there are any citizens in this country, whether it's from the government or from the opposition -- that it won't protect its child, and other people's children and all the children of this country, because we're not going to add to our work to protect ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7589	The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7590	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, before I stick to the scale of the law we are discussing today, which is on the agenda, I would like to make a few remarks. We had just heard from a few speakers of some sort of going to the Constitution, which to me as a citizen, and also to God and to my legal knowledge, because we know that this constitution is full of standards that are the opposite of themselves, and it has been brought along with the unremembered referendum theft - the shame and shame of our legal system. So we're gonna call on him because we have to, not because he's good. The question can be asked, since as a parliamentary group we support the proposed law, then what do we now have to talk about its scale or legal norms individually? I think it's important, because I think this law is important, of course, with certain ambiguities. I'd like to look back here, for example, on the question of tax obligations and some sort of issue of administrative nature. The law meets the current standards and therefore the LDP will support it. I'd add that, though it doesn't belong to the set of so-called. The European laws that have contitiated son qua non for the EU's accession, the existence of this law is of great importance for the completion of our country's legal system and it is therefore necessary to bring it forward. I would address, according to what is in the provisions of the law, and to the on-call critics of everything that exists, if we are in the government, we welcome and accept everything that the Government has proposed -- if we are in opposition, we criticise everything, whether it is good or bad, so for the on-call critics of everything that exists, I would refer to the rich tradition of such legislation in the Serbian history of state and law. I could talk about it for a long, long time, and I'll just look back on the 1881 legislation of the Progressive Laws, not these now Progressives, but serious Progressives, Stojan Novakovic, Milutin Garashanin, Milan Pirocanac. So, at the time of Milan's government, the Pyrocans brought serious laws of this nature. This legislation also has a basis in tradition before that period, and certainly after that period. Mr. Minister also referred to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia law today. So, based on such a rich tradition, and how desirable it is to pass such a law, as well as a relationship to tradition, to which Mr. Minister also drew attention and how positive. Since the representative of our parliamentary group, Mrs Vesna Pesic, gave a detailed exposé that, according to the reaction among MPs, was well received and accepted, I would refer only to a few things, first of all to the possibility of banning certain associations. Such a possibility does not open the door to the threat of human rights, but rather to the contrary. What is justified as a general and significant social value, which is the protection of human rights, and how it will be improved by the possibility that associations that endanger one's human rights, one's collective legal threat, will be able to be banned and to prevent them from working because such work is equally of general interest harmful. I would refer to a few remarks about foreigners and a call for caution about registering an association based abroad that has long existed in our country. I can only welcome the formal legal basis of something that is already a practical state in Serbia. And I would like to call on one fact, claustrophobia on this issue is absolutely unnecessary, because claustrophobia on the issue of foreigners during the 1990s, and it's known from that point on how far it's led us, so that this relationship between the government and the promoter to solve this problem can only be welcomed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7591	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my position differs slightly from the predecessors, colleagues of Rangelovic, concerning the call to the Constitution when this law is passed. In fact, the SRS parliamentary group must see the founding of this law in the provisions of the Constitution and two very serious reasons for the adoption of such a law are exactly one in the Constitution, and the quoting member of the Constitution that leaves such a commitment, and the other is what I will say afterwards. So, Article 55. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: Freedom of political, trade union and any other association is guaranteed and the right to remain outside each association. Associations shall be established without prior authorisation, subject to registration in the register run by a state body, in accordance with the law. Secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden. About this part of the provision of Article 55. The constitution is fully accepted in this law. Another serious reason for me to pass this law, now I might be a little bit out of the box, maybe even the party I belong to, is that this law should have been passed even before the Constitution itself, so if we had to change it afterwards, to approach these changes. For what? Namely, the presidents or representatives or organisers of some NGOs have poisoned the space for the civil sector, or for NGOs. The first association of associations is not even sports clubs, they are not pensioners' associations, and we have heard that there are about 800,000 members of the association, but are some NGOs that have an extremely negative political impact in their activities in Serbia. We in the parliamentary group and in the entire SRS were never the problem of political parties coming to the polls, no matter what they did and how they acted and what kind of policy they had, Serbian citizens appreciate it in the elections. A large number of NGOs that create politics in Serbia do not go to public assessment at any time, and we had the case that during the arrest of Miladin Kovacevic in Kula Television B92 and many televisions before, I want to say the official authorities of the Republic of Serbia have arrived in the house and in the environment. Who taught that? One of the NGOs and therefore one of the other very serious reasons why we have to have this law is that relationship, and simply to sort out this situation in that field because we have a great dispersion in the field of NGOs or citizens' associations, as this law defines. I can't help but comment on article 10 where the association is said to be able to establish at least three founders. Indeed, in the worst case scenario, it was necessary to leave the number of founding members that existed so far, since each association also has its own congregation. Isn't it a little funny to have a three-member congregation? If there are three founders, then the largest number of members that this association can have is certainly three. The assumption that each association will have more members is another question, but we have to work with what is provided and what is in the bill itself. When it comes to the possibility of children being founders of the association, we have no objection and we have to have a very correct and correct relationship with children because it is our future and special attention to them, but here the legislator should have made a difference between the founder and the member, so that children at 14 years of age would not be desirable to be the founders of the association, but as members, they could certainly be included. counterpart Petar Jojic pointed out that the SRS has a principled objection when it comes to foreign associations and we have submitted amendments to those seven members that regulate the problem. The minister said that the suggestion is in place, that it should be accepted, but we can't trust now that it will be so, we have to challenge such a possibility by the end of the debate and such a proposal as we have seen that in the bill some provisions, Articles 26 and 31, of course, the one who read the proposal knows what it is, were left for two years to agree on some of the actions that need to be followed by this legislative proposal, so they could say - how much we wanted to believe the minister and to be the legislator, or legislator, that this would be regulated in the next period. I must also point out another unfair relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and many state institutions and organisations towards our associations, which by the majority of Serbian citizens have fully met their expectations and have a difficult task, which is the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed at KIM. They have had many talks, many gatherings, no adequate, perhaps no help from the official Serbian authorities for their activities, and should have special and privileged status in the surrounding countries. Of course, I would be the happiest, and I suppose all of my colleagues from the SRS that this association had no need to ever arise, because this is not about the association of hunters, fishermen or bee breeders, but about a number of people who had both emotional and many other reasons to try to solve this problem, and the state has deafened this, aiding civil sector poisoning in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7593	The word has a letter from Jasmina Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7594	Dear Presidency, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, the new law on associations will finally edit this very important segment of social life in our country. The current law should definitely remain in the plus-quality because it showed a large number of shortcomings and as such slowed down on the one hand, and on the other hand it allowed the irrational multiplication of various associations, which could not be traced, and even less could be found out whether and how these associations work at all. It is clear that citizens' associations must also have clearly defined objectives and the purpose of business within the legal frameworks. It must be a clear and well-known motive for which citizens have formed such an association, as it is of course very important that the state sees its partner in them, and by doing so, good co-operation can also affect the improvement of some of the needs of citizens defined. What made the existing law particularly confusing was the fact that it was still in force for certain powers of the former parallel authorities, former federal and republican authorities, which we know for a long time that we have not formally existed, so it was in such a situation that the registration and formation of a particular association, for example, approved by the former non-existent federal, and on the other hand the ban or did not allow the current republican, as I have said long ago, was nonexistent. The new draft law definitely puts this area in order and sets out the establishment and legal position of the association, as well as the registration and erasure of the register, then membership and bodies, status changes, termination of work and other significant issues for the operation of the association but it is good that it is clearly defined and the status and functioning of foreign associations has been regulated. This bill establishes a centralised single record and monitoring of the work of the association, as well as a justification for its existence, which is good, and permanent surveillance will always be able to find out whether these associations are functioning and whether they meet their already defined objectives and the purpose of their existence. It is good that the new draft law on associations also covers the area of specific categories of citizens and their associations, such as the union, which is given the possibility of an even more independent operation of the self and better regulation and property they possess. The new proposal allows special categories of citizens to have so-called. the status of association of public importance, which is quite a step towards the solution so far in this area. In order to improve the application of certain members of this law, the SPS-JS Parliament Club has submitted a number of amendments, because we have the view that a member of the law, more precisely Article 10, which refers specifically in the way of formation or who can all be the founder of the association, where it is said that a minor of 14 years, with the consent of parents and two sides of citizens, is enough to form an association. However, for this member, we must also consider our mentality in some way and some previous experiences, because if you take, for example, that I am a 14-year-old parent, as I am, I can make abuses through my child, and yet, on the other hand, I assume that by law, as it is, you've taken care of the rights of the child, which could probably prevent my abuse. So I think we look again, because we have submitted amendments to these members, there may be something else that makes the stage less likely to reduce the possibility and the idea of malfeasance at all. Given that statistics say that we already have over 30,000 registered associations, we believe that this low criteria of only three people can still increase the number of associations, including a large number of those that will have an unknown purpose and function and thus, as I said, if they can be a 14-year-old child. But that's what we'll discuss, I guess, when it's time for the amendments. I hope you will consider once again the possibility of accepting these amendments, because we essentially just want to improve and improve the law ourselves through this article. Since the adoption of the Association Law is one of the unfulfilled obligations of the Republic of Serbia by joining the Council of Europe, its proposal is fully justified by an urgent procedure. In general, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support this bill in the voting day, because we have the view that every area of public and social life of our country must be regulated and must be consistent with the European standards that define this area closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7595	The word has Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7596	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, members of the DSS who have been speaking so far have mostly said what the DSS feels about the bill. Many MPs agreed that it was very good that this bill finally came to the Parliament's agenda and that Minister Markovic and the people working at the ministry did not have too much work this time because we all know that this law has been practically crumbling for eight years. There was also a working group, where there were representatives of NGOs, so I guess they were also very helpful to the people who formed all this in the Ministry, and today we have this proposal. So we can say that the public debate on this law has practically lasted 7-8 years, and this is an example that wouldn't be bad for us all to follow together and when some other legal proposals are in order. There should be a little longer public debates than the ones we have. What does this law actually regulate? He regulates the fundamental human right of citizens to freedom of association. We've heard that many times, and I suppose people do know that this area is regulated for now with two very outdated laws, which are practically 25 or less years old, that they're completely out of line and that they're not following modern social needs. Also, as I was about to talk about this law, I was trying somehow to find the exact number, how many NGOs or associations actually exist in Serbia. I couldn't find the exact information anywhere. We've heard here that there are 20, that there are 30,000, but we don't really know. According to this bill, the non-governmental sector or the third sector, or associations will have a broad field, starting from the fact that the association can establish three persons, then even if they don't want to register, for the first time I've heard that there is this tradition of our civil partner, then that legal protection is provided by the Constitutional Court, then the solution that children of 14 years of age can establish an association, though, with the written consent of a legal representative, there will certainly be more words when we discuss this law in detail, although it is clear that, according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, for children of 14 years of age, there is also their fundamental human right to join. I support those people who said it should be regulated very carefully. Whether it will be some method that only the Ministry may regulate by some sublegal act or it will be some new law, as was proposed here, will probably be discussed later. Foreign NGOs, which have been operating in Serbia so far, can also be registered in the register, and they were practically in the gray zone. That's what they're being tolerated for. Therefore, it is good that all associations operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are registered in a single register. Therefore, it is clear that the state’s intention to intervene as little as possible in achieving the freedom of association, i.e. to keep the restrictions minimal. There's something I'd like to say about the financial framework in which NGOs operate. Of course, this law doesn't elaborate, it mentions what funding means, etc. However, we all have friends who work in NGOs, the Assembly cooperates with a large number of very high - quality associations and helps us with our work. Our political parties also have contacts with associations, so we hear from these people what their problems are when it comes to financial regulations. Therefore, according to the applicable financial regulations, NGOs and associations, which, according to their basic activity, are non-profit organisations, are treated as profitable legal entities, i.e. as businesses, trades or other profit organisations, although they are doing jobs that are beneficial to citizens and local communities, they are essentially not making any profit. Associations are subject to taxation of all kinds and do not have any tax relief. This is something that people at the Ministry of Local Self-Government could think about, and that solutions are being considered by people from NGOs, I know that. In some countries, there is a law on the financial business of the Association of Citizens, so the Association of Citizens is not treated as some company that actually generates profits. In many Serbian citizens, the word NGO often has some negative connotations. Why? Because a few NGOs, which my colleague Aleksandra Jankovic mentioned here today, are the loudest, the most aggressive and the most aggressive in the media. It's very rare to hear and knows about how many very good organizations there are, how many fantastic people who really do very useful things on the basis of volunteering. These few NGOs cast a gray shadow on all other associations that are important and important. There were also words here about the fact that there are also in this law bans. And in previous laws, you've had a few members who talk about when you delete from the register an NGO or when its work is banned. If I were, say, an activist in some NGO that wasn't in one of these four that we mentioned, I would suggest a ban on them because of the huge damage they're doing to the entire NGO sector by their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7597	The People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji has the word, followed by the MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7598	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, when I speak of this law, I cannot recall the time when the work on this law began. It was a long time ago in 2001 and several working groups working on this text of the law, along with NGOs. It was a long time ago in 2001, and what concerns most is the fact that it takes eight years to pass to pass one law, a law that is important in the first place because of ourselves, then because the adoption of this law is one of the demands of the Council of Europe towards our country, given the importance and NGOs in the territory of all countries of Europe. The recognized claim at last in 2008, a request that, I repeat, is important for ourselves. By proposed law, we legally shape matter whose characteristic is precisely informality, simple procedure and creativity. It's always the hardest thing for us lawyers to do, how to standard one activity that's absolutely creative and informal? That's why this law is good, and I think the bill promoter did it. The law must in no way be against the interests of the citizens and there is no law that can be implemented unless the citizens themselves want it. Whether it's a law or, for example, a regulation plan, or some other kind of urban plan. This example is deliberately mentioned, given the example of citizens gathered around the famous Fifth Park. It was their park that the regulatory plan tried to take. We know the outcome of the Fifth Park case. The outcome is victory over a legitimate but illegal act, an act that is not supported by those who live there. The outcome is an area of approximately 70 meters square, which remains for citizens. The area likely to have been insignificant for the bringer of this regulatory plan, but of vital importance to citizens who built part of their own history, their park, their municipalities, their city, Serbia and at the end of Europe. The banner that stands in the park today reads: "Here are the doors of Europe". Recognizing that from the individual to the general goes an unconstitutional story of a better life for them, their families, neighbors, friends and citizens of this country. That is why the law has reduced the necessary number of founders. That is why in this law the association can establish minors, with the consent of parents. Those underage faces are certainly our children who are stronger, more honest, smarter than ourselves and, most importantly, more creative. This creativity must be supported by this legal act. This creativity we must cultivate and this creativity will bring this country to its place, and that is certainly the European Union. The power is in association, so that a single story can gain that general character. The power is in association, so we can have more power. The power is in association, so that they will often be comforted. The power is in association, so that the thick ear of the public administration and the state administration would hurt a warm and smart word. We are passing this law because of citizens whose initiative is recognised by this law, an initiative we can be proud of, stared at in the past of this country. That's why I can congratulate the Ministry, but not only on the text of this law, but on the explanation. So for the first time in any legal act or for the first time, we have an explanation that calls for the tradition of this country. That is why it explains that the association in Serbia was also recognised by the Deputy Constitution and by a series of laws that then defined the associations. Trained by this example of tradition, we can be proud and can build our future. There are also a number of associations that existed at that time and which, therefore, exist today. In addition to association and association of citizens, it is also necessary to pass a law on cooperatives. Therefore, the law defining other matter based on economic principles is based on economic principles and therefore it is also necessary to force a new form of association, both farmers and other persons who want to join their economies together with other cooperatives in the future. We've been waiting for that law for a long time. In any case, I will end up with tradition and this explanation of this law, because certainly we can be proud of our tradition, and in order to further standardise which this parliament will do in the future, stared at the past that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7599	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I speak on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I ask Mr. Minister, I asked him this morning, and I expect that, Mr. Markovic, in the meantime, you have found out whether the official list of Belgrade's cities will issue a regularly elected statute and rules of procedure on the work of the city's municipality of Zemun? Did you come up with information on who it is to Mrs. Radmila Josipovic, who gave information to the Secretary of the City Municipality of Zemun that all the statutes of the city municipalities would be published in an official messenger with the date of November 17th, and that date was adopted in the municipality of Zemun statutes. Mrs. Josipovic said the statutes of the city municipality of Zemun would not be published because complaints were filed against the decisions of the Zemun Assembly and because the opposition announced that they would address the city authorities and the mayor, so that temporary measures could be imposed and that it could not begin printing because it was ordered not to do so. So, I repeat the question, of course this morning you couldn't know who gave this lady a warrant, I assume that in the meantime you found out, and I ask you to inform the people's MPs and the public of Serbia who ordered it and that illegal decisions are being made in the City Assembly, does this have anything to do with Gilas and Vukic, and the parcels of the House of Pensioners in the territory of the municipality of Zemun? Is this the way this co-operation is started at a local level between the Democratic Party and this newly formed party? So, of course, we're not interested in your relationship. We here, as always, insist on returning our kidnapped mandates, but in this particular case, I ask you ministers to tell us that in an official messenger, as well as an official newspaper of the city of Belgrade, along with other statutes, will the Statute and Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Zemun be published? No one may reconsider the decisions of the competent authorities. What's definitely clear now, is that these two actadonettes, they have to be published. If someone proves in a future procedure that this was not in accordance with the law, that decision is also published in the official list. I'm sure that's perfectly clear to you, but please, first of all, for the sake of the public, and also for the interest of the SRS parliamentary group, let us know. I apologize for the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7601	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7602	Mrs. Radeta knows just as well what the options of the ministry are, as I know it, but I do also understand that Mrs. Radeta simply wants this topic to be placed from the Assembly's pay phone. I really didn't find out, and I don't have a chance, which I told you otherwise, I really don't have the opportunity to get any information on who told who. I can, if you like as a MP, now in the form of an MP's question, so that in writing I can request the City Hall to provide me with all the information regarding the Zemun case. The constitution defined Belgrade's position as regulated by the law and the statute of the city. We passed the law, the statute of the city was passed. The town's statutes have full authority over city municipalities, with what I saw in the Statute, conditions are the same as those of the Law on Local Self-Government. When it comes to ownership of mandates, I delivered earlier, in line with yesterday's promises, what the Ministry has at the moment, which is a review of the case law that was delivered to us, had 40-50 decisions by the District Court in Belgrade, if I'm not mistaken. I don't see how, as a minister, I can help anyone and anything from any of the stakeholders in this particular political one, I still don't know if it's become a legal dispute, I don't know if they've been filed with the District Court. So I really don't know how I can help. I don't see how I can ask the City Hall or the city council for the kind of information you're asking me to do, except for the private channels.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7603	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Right on line, article 101. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7604	Mr. Minister, of course I'm not asking you for any private intervention. You are a correct man, and I know we could do that, but it doesn't occur to us. I'm not asking you to answer any questions you can't give, because part of what I just said really doesn't apply to your ministry's intelligence. The city of Belgrade is regulated, the functioning of the Belgrade city, with the Statute. The Statute is based on the Law on Local Self-Government and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What you as a minister can, I know, and we know that the city of Belgrade is in a functioning system, with the kind of power it has, that it is a black hole in Serbia, but certainly not a black hole in the law. So, you have the possibility that, as Secretary of State and Local Self-Government, you have the right, so you don't have to get into what we've brought out, who's here to whom you order. So we have quite reliable information that this lady in contact with the Secretary of the Assembly of the City of Zemun has stated, that I do not repeat what she has stated, but you as Minister can and you are under the obligation and under the right of supervision to react, and when you receive such information that you ask the competent services of the City Assembly to send your colleagues, your associates, to carry out an insight into the documentation, to see what is really published in the official list, with the date of November 17, to see what it is and why someone does not want to publish. So I don't expect you and I don't ask you to condemn your party friends in any way, because I know you can't, but I'm asking for what you're obliged to do to all Serbian citizens, and only from the jurisdiction of your ministry and the Law on Local Self-Government. You have such information, and you and I know this law perfectly, and you know that you can, you know that it's your obligation, you could have done it in the meantime. This is a question where the answer must be obtained urgently and you could have already done so, so only within your jurisdiction. We're not asking you to go into any kind of political relationship, that's what your president is doing with those down there, of course we're going to do it in second place, second time. Once again, I ask you, until now you have been a correct minister in relation to the MPs, you have shown respect for this House, and I expect you to do so this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7605	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7606	I think we understand each other now. Therefore, in accordance with the powers laid down in the Law on Local Self-Government, which concerns the rights and obligations of the unit of local self-government and state, i.e. the Ministry, I will now order that such a letter be prepared. I'll send it tomorrow. I'll ask for a full notice on what the Zemun City Assembly case is. But you and I both know that's what the Ministry can do. If it's a matter of mandates, it'll be settled by the court. If it's a problem, we'll also ask for such information, and that's what we can do as the Ministry, in accordance with the laws. Then we got along. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7607	The word has been given by MP Dusan Maric, after which MP Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7608	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to refer to three provisions of this bill, which I find a little amazing. If comments were made by the late commentator Mladen Delic, I believe he would exclaim from this pay phone - people, is that possible! He says freedom and goals of association. The objectives of the operation of the association cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, etc. I'm undermining violent demolition. This sounds totally amazing to me. Why? So he can't violently, and to the nonviolent destruction of the constitutional order he can. What exactly does this mean? It specifically means that the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes that the state of Serbia allow associations that have a non-violent violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, non-violent destruction of the constitutional order of the state, to register on its territory. I believe this is in full conflict with common sense and, more importantly, this is completely contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. True, there are associations and various organizations in this country, especially NGOs, which have been mentioned here for years now, which have been working hard to bring down constitutional order, to bring down the values mentioned in Article 3. We're going one step further and we're legalizing it. If it wasn't a coincidence confirmed by Article 29, the rejection of the association's registration application. Now here you have five reasons why the application will be rejected: the reason first, if the name of the association or the symbol of the visual identity is identical to the name or symbol of another association; the second, if the name of the association is replaceable with the name of the second association; the third, if the symbol of the visual identity causes confusion about the association; the fourth, if the application is submitted by an unauthorized person; the fifth, if the application, the act of establishment or the statute, does not contain all the information prescribed by this bill. The provisions of Article 3 of this bill are missing here. So, if someone wants to register an association that advocates non-violent destruction of constitutional order and violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, violation of guaranteed human and minority rights, or inciting and promoting inequality, hatred and intolerance based on racial, national, religious or other belongings or definitions, as well as half, etc., that association will be allowed to register. This black on white, from letter to letter, is written in this law. I think it's an incredible and inadmissible failure that needs to get this law back together. I'm going to look back here and on the subject mentioned, which in this bill there is no word, which is the financing of these associations. I stress this problem precisely because of the practice that has been demonstrated here -- that some of these associations, especially NGOs, are financed from abroad. Often this money is unknown from origin, and very often we have a case with some associations that I will mention later, that money is used to finance activities that are directly targeted, at least, to Satanise the state of Serbia and the Serbian people, and indirectly to disrupt these values, start from constitutional order, etc. The best example for this is these NGOs: Natasa Kandić, the Committee for Human Rights Biljana Kovacevic-Vučević, "The Women in Black" and the Centre for Cultural Decontamination. These organizations have been around for 15 years. Absolutely public, as far as I've heard from the recognition of the women who run these organizations, even the state authorities have no idea which sources they're funding from. We had in the pre-election campaign a statement by Natasa Kandic, where she admitted that the humanitarian law fund received a donation in the amount of last year, it seems to me, 200,000 euros. We all know what this fund is doing. So I think the law should withdraw from the procedure, regulate this question, simply, to know who, who, how and why he can pay the funds. Just one more thing, my predecessors also looked back on it, as regards the founders of the association. He says associations can form at least three founders, and here he thinks of three physical faces. I really think there's been a big gap here. I think it's too little to allow three faces to organize an association. It would be logical for that number to be the minimum number of people needed to form all the bodies of the association provided for by this law. It is also said that at least one of the founders must be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. So two can be from abroad. When it comes to natural persons, I believe that this ratio should be the other way around, it means that at least two natural persons of the founder should, if they remain on this number, be citizens of the Republic of Serbia and possibly one from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7609	The word has a folk MP Dragoljub Micunovic, followed by a folk MP, Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7610	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, this isn't some ordinary law where we're going to argue too much over the formulations, for two reasons. First, he was long started and it was started in a good way. In 2001, we had a meeting at the Ministry of Justice, where many NGOs, citizens' associations, MPs, held several meetings, under the chairmanship of Mr. Prof. The Grubachi boy, where the drafts of this law were prepared. Later, there was a talk about it again. It falls to the souls of all governments who have waited a moment for us to discuss this by an emergency procedure, because we are being monitored and because it requires the Council of Europe from us. Government shifts, some governments' lack of interest, retreating, returning it, but let's try to get some positive line out of it. It consists of that it was an opportunity to talk to everyone in the third sector again, in the NGO sector, and in much of what these original drafts are being repaired. I'm not going to talk about details, it's a matter of discussion about amendments, but I'd like to say something that is very important to us. This law makes us one step in the development of freedom, the development of democracy and the protection of citizens against other authorities, of which the state is most important. On the other hand, it gives the citizen the opportunity to fulfill his initiatives. The Germans have an expression called the bürger Initiative, in which citizens launch various initiatives. Being a citizen, that means joining others, that's what this law provides. Of course, it is very important and we cannot have a good state without good and active citizens. This law allows citizens to be active and not only in defending their own interests, but, above all, to help others. It's no coincidence that most NGOs have a humanist streak, it means a desire to help others. In the political sphere, man and his nature need to be very reserved. All the great political thinkers have drawn attention that man is selfish, selfish, aggressive, and when you trust him with power, you need to open your eyes and have a series of measures to control him. However, in the social sphere, in the social sphere, there is the work of empathy, solidarity and that good part in man's nature. As in the political sphere, it's not just what's ugly, but we have to have one angle of view, and in this social sphere -- every society is wrong if it wastes the resources of human nobility. So there's a huge human need to help another. We're talking about the number of 30,000 NGOs, some of which is a lot, etc. Let me tell you that the average in countries like ours is over 100,000 NGOs. There are countries that have two million NGOs. So that just means spreading freedom. If you don't get me wrong, we like to call on tradition and then say our bright democratic traditions, mentioned in the 1869 Deputy Constitution. It's a good thing we have a tradition and a good idea to get out of that tradition as much as we can. It's not good if we exaggerate it and don't interpret it the right way. This Deputy Constitution was not something to admire with great democracy, nor the way it was adopted. After the murder of Prince Michael, the Garashanite and many others ran to summon the Great congregation. The Minister of War Blaze said, "No, he can't, I'm calling the army." He issued several regulations on his own calling for the military to bring to the throne Milan Obrenovic, a 14-year-old boy who was at the school in Paris at the time. Now, as the first replacement of three people, Blaznavac, Ristic, who brought Mihajl Gavrilovic. Then they called the so-called. Miholi committee, respected people, 30-40. What were they arguing about back then? The question should be answered whether Serbia needs a constitution. Look, this isn't some deep Middle Ages, this is about the end of the 19th century, and Serbia still had that problem. From school we can remember the Dragon Songs "Yututun's Juhahahaha", where they kept laughing at the promise of that constitution, etc. Prince Michael didn't bring it either. There were some promises. Then this council should have decided whether Serbia needed a constitution. The second question was, could there be a constitution if the prince they named was a minor? Third, whether to disband or leave the Great congregation at all. These were fundamental issues, whether Serbia should step in any democratic direction or not. These questions were answered positively and this constitution was made, so Milanov 1881, etc. In this tradition of Milan, we can't find anything democratic but violent and we don't need to exaggerate it. We will say what was great, what Jugovic did during Karadjordje and much earlier, and some suggestions to Dosite. Not to get into it, in the reasons of the law, we don't need any idealization of some, especially some dates that don't represent it. I know there's a lot of traditionalism with us, and they think everything was fine until this new century has come that's ruined it. But let's go back to our key topic, the relationship between society and the state. That's the key question. There are two types of freedoms in political theory: freedom from and freedom to. Negative freedom and positive freedom. Negative freedoms are protection from others, above all from the state, that no one can break into your apartment, protect your property, protect your mail, etc., that it protects you from the outside, from the state. Positive freedoms are where you can participate in this life. Basic freedoms were, above all, freedom of speech and freedom of association. It was a key and important freedom, and therefore throughout the whole new century there has been a lot of struggles, both trade unions, feminists and various others to fight for that freedom. A lot of things are wrong in the world today, a lot of things were just as terrible yesterday. Let's not fall into an illusion, so let's believe that when we go back to the past it was much better there. So it's not. Mankind is progressing by spreading freedom. If you remember that freedom had no slaves, so they had no wives, so they had no peasants, so they had no poor, so they had no national minorities, etc., that I do not count, to this day it has been extended for those with special needs, therefore a decent word is used instead of other words. Of course, real kids. I watched one of those scrawny shows where some of the scrawny people, boasting of their conservativeism, stood up against the rights of children. He says, what the state can interfere with in our domestic affairs is the violence of the state. Unfortunately, even some university professors, who don't understand the basic thing, that no matter what a man enters into a family relationship, he as a member of the community has the rights to retain. Otherwise, in that old story, why do you care if I beat my wife or if you care about me beating my kids? These women and those children are members of our political community and must be protected by equal rights, regardless of the bully. Until we out of the minds of many citizens break out, we won't make far progress. So here we have something that wakes citizens' initiatives that they can do for themselves. Usually, in dictatorships or in long periods of freedom, the passiveness of citizens appears, and that is the worst in the country. The enormous energy it has, knowledge, initiatives, etc. People get buried because a citizen says it's not worth it, it's worth nothing to do, it's all gone anyway, etc. In Greece, these people who didn't want to worry about general affairs and state affairs, as you know, called idiots. It was an idiot, not in the sense of today as a mentally retarded person, but a person who is self-interested, who is nothing else. Here is the sphere of the release of these energies. There are today in the world, which you can have the worst opinion about, wars, aggressions, killings, crimes, camps and horrors you want, but it remains part of the nobility. If I tell you that today there are over 600 million people who, as volunteers, are involved in helping other people. It's a terrible energy that gives, in some ways, optimism that the species will be maintained. Without it, a species of human beings cannot be maintained without that empathy, solidarity, the desire to pass on to future generations and to those who are now terrible, one part of nobility. It's the purpose of NGOs. He's got all kinds of NGOs. We know some who are overly politicized and we know it all. There's an old metaphor, so I'm going to use it, it says, let's not throw the kid out of the trough with dirty water. So that child in the corridor, it's a sector of NGOs, it's associations, it's a civil private initiative. I believe, no matter how much the amendments deserve to be discussed, if we were going to fix things, but if this law, it would be an honor to Parliament, the citizens would welcome us, if we all accepted it together as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7611	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, followed by Parliamentarian Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7612	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the dear viewers who listen and watch us, the way in which the guaranteed freedom of association in the Republic of Serbia is still governed by two anachron laws that were passed in 1982 and 1999. Today, we have before us a draft law on associations, i.e. a new legal framework for the work of the Association of Citizens. This law proposes the establishment and legal position of the association, registration and removal from the register, and this law has 82 members. The SRS MPs have numerous criticisms of the law, which is too widespread, confusing, dysfunctional and unconstitutional. For the first time, the law regulates the specific status and functioning of foreign associations. The issue of foreign NGOs, or associations so far has not been regulated in Serbia's legal system, a special law on foreign NGOs. The SRS considers that these issues must be regulated by a special law, which requires the application of the practice of comparative law. The interest of Serbia is to create a legal basis for the establishment and operation of NGOs, i.e. associations, by passing a special law on foreign NGOs. As a result, the SRS parliamentary group submitted amendments to the eighth part of the law containing seven members, from 57-63 and bearing the title of the Association Party. The other day outside of this respectable home, families of abducted Serbs with KIM protested. Only for their pain and grief was he of understanding and respected by the vice president of the SRS, or the chairman of the Assembly's Defence and Security Committee, Mr Dragan Todorovic, who received them. Associations of families kidnapped and killed in KIM unite all Serbian victims of kidnapped and killed civilians, soldiers and police officers killed before the war, during the war in 1999 and after the war, whose number exceeds 2,500 people. The association seeks to satisfy justice in every respect for all innocent victims, as well as for families of these victims to receive appropriate status. We believe, and by the reputation of related associations in our neighbouring countries, that our association should also be given priority and the status of the association of special national importance. The law also discriminates against many other associations, such as associations of blind, weak-sighted, deaf, children and cerebral paralysis. Their associations cannot implement programmes of public interest and cannot apply for budget funds. This law does not contribute to the quality development of democracy in Serbia. In the end, I can say that this law is just a set of good wishes of the ruling coalition, because such a bill is too widespread, lacking and dysfunctional. The law can be acceptable to all citizens of Serbia if amendments to the SRS parliamentary group are accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7613	People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7614	Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the basis of Rule 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the SRS parliamentary group on this occasion, requesting specific explanations and notifications. It concerns, of course, funding from the executive authority, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, certain associations. With this in mind, we need an explanation from the culture minister, who decided not to continue the financing contract of the Centre for the Investigation of Crimes against the Serb people. So, this centre for investigating crimes against the Serbian people has been working on the territory of the Republic of Serbia for more than eight years, and the state of Serbia has indeed had a specific relationship with this centre for investigating crimes against the Serb people, considering it appropriate to nevertheless get concrete and precise information about what happened to the Serb people in the territories affected by the wars. We are looking for a concrete explanation of what led the culture minister to terminate the funding agreement with the Standard for the investigation of crime against the Serb people in the second half of this year. Of course, what is very important, and lately is also mentioned in the media, I will now take advantage of the opportunity, I hope that no one will mind, because other opportunities of the SRS do not have, and that is that what really bothers and is almost also unsustainable and I think we will increasingly use what the Rules of Procedure provides, and it is spreading lies that the National Assembly deals exclusively with passing laws. Of course, that is not true and points to a complete lack of knowledge of what is the mandate of elected representatives of the people, and thus to the National Assembly, so that within the framework of their election rights, a member of the 99th highest legislative act i.e. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, in addition to choosing the government, oversees its work. What we want to find out on this occasion is also an announcement and an explanation from the minister of justice. You are already used to the SRS having good information and is timely to draw attention to problems that can affect the everyday lives of citizens, or the people of Serbia. On this occasion, we want accurate and precise information from the minister of justice: which judges in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have dual citizenship? What the SRS is particularly interested in, these are dual citizenships from countries in the immediate environment. I would like to ask the chairman, and I apologize for the time-out, that in as recent as possible instructions and this request by our group to the competent ministry, so that we can qualify in the debate in particular to participate. One more question, you won't mind me, the minister is here. What the SRS is interested in may not be directly your jurisdiction, but I suppose you will do your best to get that information: what number of NGOs, or associations of citizens on Serbian territory, is funded from abroad, and that if you can get the information, you can transparently show us in what amount, for which foreign organisations and associations of citizens have been funded here since 2000? We assume that's what the state has. If not, it is very unserious and represents a sort of irresponsible attitude of the state towards the non-governmental sector, ultimately and security guaranteed by the Constitution. Thank you and forgive me for overstepping, but there are very important things that we need for further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7615	The People's Messenger Zoran Ostojić has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is five minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7616	Dear Vice-Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, already the predecessors of the LDP parliamentary group said that we would vote for this law, because, under one, LDP is fighting for the fundamental individual values and freedoms of citizens, as a liberal party, and, under two, because this country lacked this law. For seven years since 2001, such a law has been given birth in the Assembly and it is interesting that whenever it was in the procedure there was a government crisis and the government was falling. Whether it's going to be this time doesn't matter for this debate, it's important that we adopt it. We don't think this law is good because in reason it calls for some traditional laws, or laws from the past, which cultivates tradition. We think this law is good because it determines the fundamental right of citizens to come together. For us, it is the right of citizens to freely join fundamental rights, which shows that we have been coming out of the system of collectiveism, in which we have lived for 60 years, in a system based on market economy, private property, freedom and human rights. We think the solutions that are given here, because they've been made with the civil sector, are good, if they're good, and we need to be good. We think that especially good solutions that aphirm and association of children, or older minors, are because, after all, the minister said that, they have some other rights, such as the right to marriage of 16 years with certain conditions, the right to work at 15 years of age, and they can be held accountable. We think it's very good as possible to associate citizens without registration and we think it should be affirmed, because it's a free human right to fight for its interest most important. All those who criticise these solutions in principle are advocates of the almighty control of the state, some old times, that the state must know everything and control who gives and who finances, who does what, etc. But we think we're out of that system, or we're coming out slowly, and this is one of the laws that leads in a transparent way to that new system that we're not in yet, but hopefully we all want to get there. There may be property, the minister explained, I'm not going to hold his word right now, because I know it would be incorrect for me to be wise when I can't suggest something better. However, this member of the association may also engage in other activities, other than those for which it has been registered, but under certain conditions - that it is related to its constitutional objectives, that the activity is provided for in the Statute, which is not disputed, and that this activity is minor, i.e. that the activity is carried out in the scope necessary to achieve the objectives of the association. In practice, I'm only speaking now based on what I know as a journalist, it has come and coming and I think that the influence of the state government and the control of the executive authority will have to be necessary. To this inequality, let's say, between the old associations, or social organisations that have become associations of citizens and who have some kind of property, because, for example, the Association of Journalists, for example, can be seen that the building of the Association of Journalists, heirs, an association that inherits the old communist association essentially deals with renting because it usurped the building that journalists built in the 1930s and gave as legislation to journalists in Belgrade. Some strange decision by this 1976 assembly was passed on to that association, so that the journalists of other associations do not have equal access to the property, because, let me say, the old ones usurped it out and to be honest, they do more renting than what they were founded for and why they should do it. Or, for example, the Association of Lawyers, which also has some pretty good property in the Crown, the building, and these days we're in the process of passing a set of judicial laws, and I haven't heard, I apologize if I predicted, at least that this association has come out, which obviously satisfies some of its interests through renting, publishing space. Anyway, these are some things that will stay, let's say, time to be solved. There's another problem objectively, I think it's well solved, but it's not clear to me when I read the law, maybe the minister will explain it to us. There are associations of citizens that the state has given to perform some kind of public function. Let's say the Auto-Moto Alliance issues international driver's licenses. The objectively that income is not the capacity of this association, that income is the monopoly that the state has given it. The money, or property acquired in this way, in my court, could not be equal to the property of that association, as some property they had previously earned, which someone had given them. Because then why wouldn't it be a tender every few years -- who's going to do it? Why would it be a monopoly of one association? (President: People's Parliament, your MP's time has been used. ) I thank you, we will vote, but I would ask that it be clarified for both the public and not just for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7617	The word is made by Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7618	Dear People's MPs, this is a great question and it was a real topic when we talked about the draft law. I think we've solved it in the most honest way possible. The own funds referred to in Article 1 shall not be considered to be the funds realised by the exercise of public authority or other resources derived from the budget of the socio-political communities. Therefore, all who have had the privilege of exercising public authority and making funds, these funds do not fall within those assets that they can exclude from this future property and attribute to themselves. I think that's on the principle of justice, how we've designed this whole concept of property of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7619	Before I give my word to the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic, a brief notice to which the Rules of Procedure binds me. We had an agreement today to work until 5:00, to organize time so that we could finish the debate in principle. This is impossible at this point because the SRS has 44 minutes, the ZES parliamentary group has 81 minutes, the G17 parliamentary group plus 16 minutes, the SPS-JS 9 minutes. So because of the obvious fact that we're not going to make it, and the television broadcast will start at 17.15, then we'll have a break at that time, and after the sports events we'll be back in the O.R. to work after 1800 hours. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word. After that, MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have another in front of us in a series of sets of laws by emergency procedure, which is the proposal for a law on associations. Like most of the laws on the agenda that we've been working here these days in the Assembly, basically this law is necessary and significant. In particular, this law is based on the association of citizens in order to achieve a specific objective or interest that is not prohibited by the Constitution or by law, respect for human and minority rights through association, etc. All of this is fine, as well as the fact that social property should be thrown out of this law as a form of property. So it's all simple. This law has been imposed on us, because it is a commitment to the Council of Europe and should have been passed long ago. The law has perfectly regulated all segments which determine registration, rights and obligations, mode of action, conditions under which the ban on the work of the association takes effect and everything else is clear and concretely foreseen. In one part of the law also mentions foreign associations, which is present with us and, let's say, it's just that there's one problem - that foreign associations don't control themselves enough and often through such associations do foreign intelligence services and anti-Serbian elements. The obvious example is Soros, which places across the association and the media politics that enables Shiptar separatists and their satellites in Serbia to do literally whatever they want. No association is sanctioned by a labour ban or is known to be for the reasons set out in Article 3 of this Act. We have daily knowledge that separatism has support within the state, and where and how, but through various associations. This law shows the meaning of the work of a hypocritical and courteous government. The law consists of all the necessary members who regulate any possibility and possibility and provided for everything necessary for the formation and operation, as well as the termination of the work of the association, which clearly states that the ruling coalition has the capacity to propose and adopt a law that regulates everything necessary for certain matters, and the law on the mandates of MPs interprets as necessary. What else to think of our citizen, but not of a completely legally regulated state. In the past term, Minister Markovic, as Minister for Local Self-Government, pledged that in the next term, the Assembly would have no or no laws that were not precise and clear. What kind of message are you sending to the citizens and to you so much-wanted Europe? Do you think that's where the dilettantes sit? No, there are professional and serious people, who manipulate you for their own interests, and you have fulfilled your wishes and you pass the laws by order and by emergency procedure, for our citizens at this moment insignificant laws when we are far from Europe. You will adopt this law and report to the Council of Europe on this, but how will you explain to them what association of citizens and under what conditions is sitting here in the Assembly? The group of citizens is united to achieve its own interests, and only of its own, does not fit into any member of this law or any member of the Serbian Constitution. That is why I call on you today to end this lardy in the Assembly, to call on legal experts and decide to return the mandates of the SRS and remove this group of citizens or association from the Assembly Hall. Every continuation of work in this assembly, with undefined and illegal MPs, makes no sense and all the laws that you bring loses to importance, and the citizens lose confidence in this institution, which is so very low. Mr. Minister, since you are one of the few ministers who participates in the work, I would ask you and expect you to answer me - do you think that the KIM Family Association should have the highest priority and statute of the association of special national importance? Do you think he's a member of the 10th law, where it's estimated that it's enough for three citizens to start an association, okay? Now I'd like to give you one piece of information if it wasn't good, and I'm going to give you a concrete example. Three people founded the association, namely Serž Brammerc, Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic. Their superior goal is to respect all the tasks of Washington and Brussels, to bring Serbia to the Belgrade Pashalu level, and what is most dangerous, the troika wants to kill Professor Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. Mr. Minister, I think something like that is inadmissible, that you must react to the fact that such associations in the root must be cut down and banned from working. This is certainly true that Serž Brammerc, Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic, in order to preserve this government and this coalition, which is primarily not the will of Serbian citizens, wanted to break the SRS, failed. Believe me, this is just a appendage attack for the SRS, regardless of their attempts that next year Professor Dr. Vojislav Seselj will be released from all charges, will return to Serbia, will return to his family, will return to the SRS, will return to his Serbia, that he will be for the ruling coalition, the fugitive underpants, according to that people's then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7621	National MP Milan Lapcevic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7622	The President-in-Office, using the possibility of Article 226, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and the presence of Mr. Minister for State Administration Milan Markovic to ask a question concerning local self-government in Nis. Two weeks ago, sessions of the Niš City Assembly were held at which four different acts, two regulatory plans, one detailed plan for one part of the city's regulation and one change of plan were discussed. As part of one point, in addition to the debate held unitedly, as possible, the committees declared themselves in the package, so one vote to put all four acts out of force. While that is not possible, I have advertised the Rules of Procedure and asked that the vote be held individually, so for each act in particular. Of course, the congregation’s majority did not accept it, and one hand was put out of force by all four acts. Since I believe that we have been denied the opportunity as committees to declare ourselves valid on each act individually, because we had reason to accept some plans, for one to vote, for the other not to vote, I want to ask you this way if it is possible and whether the rights of the Board of the Assembly of the City of Nisa have been violated by such a way of working? In any case, I will also address you in writing for such a vote and for it to reach a conclusion that these regulatory plans are being rejected, i.e. to return to the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7623	They want to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Buha and MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7624	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like this opportunity, in accordance with Articles 222, 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, to address the issue and to request a notice on what will be done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the ruling of the International Court of Justice which rejected the Serbian side's objection that the International Court of Justice be declared incompetent in the dispute with Croatia. It's a serious dispute. The Serbian side has shown its maturity, as the International Court has already shown its subjectivity when it initiated proceedings against the Muslim party, i.e. a dispute that was current a year ago between the Muslim-Croatian Federation and the Republic of Serbia, in which the procedure was conducted and completed. In this case, it is a serious dispute and I want to warn the Serbian public and the government, as well as the resolution ministries, to prepare seriously. We have three options in this case. Namely, the current government comes up with three moves that will take place in this case, and the commitment will be a political decision by actors on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia. One thing is to accept alignment, which would be devastating in the Serbian national interests, because genocide and ethnic cleansing were made by Croats, not Serbs; another possibility is to prepare a defence without a lawsuit or a lawsuit against the Croatian side and a third option is a countersuit or a lawsuit. I suggest, and that is the view of the Republika Srpska government in persecution, that we go to a lawsuit against Croatia, since we have all the elements. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution held three scientific meetings. We've got enough material to sue. We'll attach all the documents, all the facts, all the information that the government has, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice to make a lawsuit. It is only relevant and in this situation is only possible and this will protect Serbia's national interests. Everything else will be devastating in the interests of Serbia's national interests. Furthermore, we must correct the foreign minister, who is constantly coming out with the the thesis that 250,000 Serbs have been expelled. That's not true. Between 500 and 800,000 Serbs were expelled. Unfortunately, we don't have the exact information. It is a shame for this country and for the international community, which has followed it closely, recorded it, and the Serbian side still lacks accurate data today. According to the Republika Srpska government in persecution, it is between 500 and 800,000 Serbs. I'll keep going later, time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7625	National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 226, I request an explanation from the Serbian Government and from the President of the Republic of Serbia whether and what does the Republic of Serbia think it is doing about the decision of the International Court of Justice and the suit of the Republic of Croatia against Serbia? I continue the discussion, I will refer to my colleague Buhu -- at least 500 thousand exiled Serbs from Krajina, Europe's largest ethnic cleansing after World War II, seven thousand killed Serbs in Croatia, 15 thousand wounded and, as I said yesterday, more than a million Serbs who were killed in the genocide crime during World War II. As a result, we have the fact that in front of the International Court of Justice, the highest international legal institution, proceedings are being conducted against the Serbian state for the crimes of genocide. Why are we in this situation? We came to this situation because the state didn't run the right policy. Instead of collecting evidence of crimes against Serbs, instead of pressing charges for these crimes, we collected evidence of crimes committed by Serbs, apologized to Croats and Muslims, and prepared and conducted trials against members of the Serb people. We now have a situation on trial in Belgrade for a crime in Ovcara for killing 200 Croats, and should be tried. But in Belgrade or in front of another court, Serbia had to be tried for the murder of more than a thousand Serb soldiers and civilians killed by Croatian paramilitary organisations in Vukovar. Belgrade is being tried for the murder of 20 or 30 civilians in Lovas, and should be tried. However, it is unacceptable that neither Croatia nor Serbia are tried for killing 150 Serb civilians overnight in Gospić for killing 400 Serb civilians in the winter of 1993 in Ravni Kotari, for killing 283 Serb civilians in Operation Bljesak, for killing 500 Serb civilians in Sisak. If Serbia is found guilty of Croatia's lawsuit, the damages claim follows. In Croatian media, information in the public has already been polluted, figures from $30 billion to $100 billion are mentioned. What does that mean? This means that our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandsons, in the next 10, 20, 30, and more likely 50 and more years, will work to pay Croatians war damages. Victims will pay criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7627	National MP Milan Škrbić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to ask for Article 225 for a shameful verdict or notice by The Hague on the acceptance of an action against Serbia. And 226th argument and notice, so that we can get together with the agenda point, if the government does nothing about this decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The court decided to brutally trample the right and apply the double arches, because when Serbia sues, it is not competent, and when they sue Serbia, we remember BiH, now and Croatia, then it is hastening to confirm that jurisdiction as soon as possible. The decision is shameful and I really don't know what the SRS should do anymore, appeal to everyone to do something and get the state behind all this. It's like someone's ashamed to answer, to criticise this decision or anything related to The Hague. It is my duty as an MP or a man who comes from those parts to say that it has been 13 years since the greatest ethnic cleansing in Europe since World War II. For some, especially the current government in Serbia, Republika Srpska Krajina and Krajina, they should appear to have fallen into oblivion. In those days and years, NDH was re-established, it definitely became Europe's most ethnically pure country. Did those who exiled millions of Krajisnik Serbs, when I say Krajisnik, mean both Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Krajina, kill over 7,000 Krajisnik Serbs, wound over 15,000 Krajisnik Serbs, kidnapped and destroyed more than 80,000 apartments and houses, ethnically cleaned 1,100 villages and settlements. The international community, which was meant to protect Krajina and Serbs, failed to carry out its task. Instead, we got justice in The Hague and The Hague, which in the Copernican twist made the victim guilty, and from the culprit the victim. There is no place in The Hague for any important political and military leader, let us remember all these, aggressors to the Serbian people. Since it's really little time I'll be done, so if I have to call again, I'll remind you that everyone's telling us we're guilty. We've been given the answer that we're guilty, as these priests say, of the new Hague, of the Atlantic, of the mondialist or of whatever justice. Are these Serbs to blame for their aggression on themselves, for building houses and for being there for 800 years? Are they guilty and not fitting into the new scheme of the order of Europe and the world? Are they guilty of being alive? And what will Serbia do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7629	People's MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Before I give my word to the People's Parliament, since we respect the rule of a silent agreement on the use of members 225 and 226, please use the numbers carefully in the topic behind the speaker, and within Articles 225 and 226, we want to share. If you look at the stenograms for reporting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the People's MP Milorad Buha, MP Dusan Maric and MP Milan Škrbić, you will understand why I ask you to use the numbers carefully. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7630	So it's about ethnic cleansing from Republika Srpska territory. According to an estimated 400,000 Serbs, during two actions, Flash and Storm were ethnically cleared from Republika Srpska's territory. But that's not the end of it. So, what is very important, I report on the basis of Article 226, I think the situation is very urgent and should give us a qualified response from the Serbian government's competent ministries, as they advocate two-way co-operation with The Hague tribunal and otherwise with international legal institutions, here's the opportunity. We in The Hague have the opportunity to see at the scene how the defence teams operate and what the state of Serbia's relationship to the defences that, through various processes, take place before The Hague tribunal. So, let's say, we learned, among other things, that in BiH's case against Serbia, the genocide lawsuit, let's say only during one night, the team prepared for a qualified response, according to a very equipped caller, Andras Ridlmeier, a famous Islamist, who appears on the prosecution's project tasks, even the UN tribunal, and is trying to prove in fact the cultural and religious genocide of the non-Serb population. So our team, our team, we know for sure, was only preparing for one night. It's a disgrace to the state of Serbia. Yes, we read the facts, as the chairman, Komic says, we fully support this approach and expect the fact that the Serbian government, in terms of the explanation that we are really looking for, will give in the most recent time. As far as we know, there are two plans, as well as in the BiH case. Plan A, which is signed by Mr. Tibor Varadi, and plan B, Mr. Stojanovic. Plan A concerns the jurisdiction of the court, and we did not expect the International Court of Justice to be found incompetent in the case of Croatia's lawsuit against Serbia. But what is a bigger problem than all that is the metricity and attitude of the Serbian state towards it. You will allow, I hope, and perhaps for a few seconds, what is very important, which is missing, as regards the decisions of the International Court of Justice in The Hague on BiH's genocide suit, our team did not deal at all with a claim concerning genocide. It's the hardest thing in the perspective for the Serbian people. I will tell you only in this part, what is very important is that at that time, Sakib Softic, BiH's representative in the SCG lawsuit, said he was partially satisfied with the International Court of Justice's ruling in The Hague, because he declared Serbia responsible for failing to prevent genocide in BiH, non-delivery to The Hague tribunal Ratko Mladic, impunity with those responsible for the action of genocide again and for failure to act on provisional measures since 8 April and 13 September 1993. This is a terrible legacy for generations to come, for the state of Serbia and for the entire national Corps. (President: Time: three minutes and 30 seconds. I know, I'm sorry, just to finish the thought, because I stayed in debt. So we're asking for a very precise answer from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, given that yesterday we heard Mr. Jeremic going on a countersuit, and that's great, and that should have been done right away. Croatia must be responsible for ethnic cleansing. There must be a limit below which Serbia must not go. (President: Four minutes. ) On both Croatia and KIM, and on BiH. So, what we're looking for, once again, I apologize, is the exact answer: which team, in which way, which methodology, which money, which experts will be involved and which approach will be built in relation to Croatia, because we want to help and participate in all this. (President: Four minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7631	People's MP Milorad Buh, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). One of the reports was no statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7632	Reporting again in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Diaspora for a specific international conference to be held, which should be held in Geneva on 10 December of this year, where our and the Croatian sides, together with the organiser of this UNHCR, the High Commissioner for Refugees, should sum up the results of the rights of Serbs expelled from the territory of the Republika Srpska Krajina of Croatia and exercise the definition of unfulfilled rights. Since we are in this situation the damaged party has been asked, above all, by the Government of the Republika Srpska Krajina in persecution, by the state authorities, primarily by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Diaspora and the Commissioner for Refugees, all essential elements of the platform for negotiations with the Croatian side and with international representatives, in this case by UNHCR representatives, what and how to launch in terms of reviving and restoring those rights. The latest news is that the Croatian side will not come to these negotiations. It's typical of the Croatian side. They all sign, and bilateral and multilateral agreements, all that is required to return to international law, sign everything, don't return anything. We're passively observing it. That is why I again call on the competent state authorities to deal seriously with the issue of achieving the rights and returns of Serbs expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. The issue is that Serbs, in this case, the Serbian side and the negotiating team that goes to Geneva, must clearly say and limit the time of return, and ask for the support of the international community for all of this. So far, we've been loose, we've been unserious, we've taken the whole situation, and they've suffered Serbs who've been exiled. The Republic of Serbia, which helped Serbs, suffered instead of the Serbs returning there to enjoy their property. I have one more thing to stress. Today there is a smoldering genocide policy, planned and strategically designed by Croats. In fact, we have today's banishment from Croatia. Serbs come to Serbia beheaded, discriminated against by Croatian state authorities, remain without support, assistance, property etc. Serbia needs to regain consciousness. This is the moment. We now have an International Court that must resolve this issue. We've got Geneva and we're taking this seriously because we're not gonna have any more chances than we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7633	National MP Dusan Maric wants to speak again about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word for Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7634	Reporting under Article 104. Mrs. Comic, I am convinced, has well-intentioned that even numbers are being used here. From this, it can be concluded that the SRS MPs were contradictory when the figures on the victims of Croatian terror were given here over members of the Serb people. But that's not the case. That is why I will repeat it again, also for the MPs, and for Mrs Comic's sake and above all for the citizens of Serbia who are watching this. In Croatia, more than 7,000 Serbs were killed during the 1991 to 1995 war. At least 4,000 Serbs of Croatian regular units have killed in BiH territory. 15,000 Serbs, 15,000 Krajisnik Serbs, were wounded. As for the number of exiled populations, at least 500,000 people were exiled. Of this, it is well known, it was found, 250,000 Serbs of Krajisnik during the occupation of Republika Srpska Krajina in Operation "Storm" and another 250,000 Serbs of Krajisnik, Serbs from Croatia, Zagreb and other urban parts of Croatia, where there were no war acts. Mr. Skribic used a number of millions of exiled Krajis. In doing so, he meant all the Serbs of the Krajina. All Serbs practically west of Drina are Serbs Krajisniks. In Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, when you add up the number of exiles, unfortunately, it crosses the figure of one million. Mr. Skrbic said 1,100 Serbian villages were ethnically cleaned in Croatia. It's also official data. In BiH, this data refers only to the Federation of BiH, 527 villages that were completely ethnically clean, in which only the Serb population lived, no longer exist, as if never God had given them, and I will talk about it another time. The next thing you know about numbers, we mentioned a figure of over a million Serbs who were killed in the genocide of the Croats over the Serb people in World War II. We mentioned the numbers of 50,000 children who were killed in Jasenovac, yesterday I took the obligation, and I will fulfill that obligation in the coming days, to provide the government of the Republic of Serbia with a list of the names of 22,000 children killed in Jasenovac, whose identity has been established. The result is this: Serbia should be responsible for war crimes and genocide in Croatia's lawsuit. I am taking this opportunity, I have ten more seconds, just to ask a question, since Mr. Minister here, what does the state of Serbia think is doing about the fact that, according to all international documents, according to the Charter of the United Nations, the Republika Srpska Krajina is still legally existing? Resolution 743 of the United Nations Security Council, the famous Vens-Oven plan, which established Republika Srpska Krajina, which set international forces between Republika Srpska and Croatia, the resolution was never put out of force. Republika Srpska's Krajina officially still exists, although there is no one there, everything has been killed and ethnically cleaned, and the state of Serbia is silent. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7635	National MP Nikola Žutic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7636	Dear Members of Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. Republika Srpska Prime Minister and SRS MP Milorad fleas have repeatedly mentioned a scandalous verdict to Republika Srpska President Milan Martic. The government and other state authorities simply remain silent and do not look back on the protest of MPs Milorad Buha and Serbian radicals. Gentlemen, why was Milan Martic convicted? It is not clear to me, and I also trust many citizens of Serbia and Serbian countries. Milan Martic only defended the territorial integrity of the people's plebiscite founded by Republika Srpska, which was under international protection. He defended the right to self-determination of the Serb people, which is unfortunately recognised by all emerging nations, but not the Serb people. At a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of 12 June 2007, I asked a parliamentary question: what will the government of the Republic of Serbia do about the scandalous verdict of the UN tribunal given to Milan Martic and will they take countermeasures? In her reply, the government agreed with my view that the verdict given to Martic for 35 years was one of the most severe penalties imposed in the tribunal's practice. However, with some optimism, the government noted that the verdict was issued in the first degree and that the second-degree appeal would likely be reduced. The government's certain optimism, unfortunately, has not been achieved since a first-degree verdict of 35 years has been confirmed. In response to my parliamentary question, the government has pledged to provide Martic and his legal team with all necessary legal assistance during the trial, collecting the documentation needed to prepare the defence, providing material assistance to the accused Martic and his family members, in accordance with a decision on conditions for obtaining material assistance to the international tribunal for the prosecution of persons charged with serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991 and members of their families. Again, I ask the Government: did the Government ever provide legal assistance during the trial and then during the second-degree appeal procedure? Furthermore, I ask the question: what measures will the government take after giving a second-degree ruling to Martic, which is unfortunately final? I expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7637	National MP Milan Skrbic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets the word twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7638	Chairman, I'm looking again for a notice per article. 225 and 226. Since Mr Tibor Varadi said Serbia must press charges, and that the suit awaits a political decision, of course, raises an automatic question about when the suit will be, who will be on the team to write it, with which data will be handled by the team, etc. That's the reason for the call. I must say this, too, that all the key legal arguments were absolutely on the side of our country and that is why this court decision is full of contradictions. All that data that this team needs exists. There are people who have been dealing with this problem for years. There is a government of Republika Srpska in persecution, which has huge documentation, in co-operation with all those in the state and outside the country who have dealt with this problem, since the state has not dealt with this problem in any way. There are also scientific gatherings on the subject. All the documentation is owned by the SRS, but no one's looking for it. That's what's the problem and we're worried. So, who's gonna be on that team, who's gonna be the people, and will there ever be a lawsuit? Serbia's chief legal representative, Professor Tibor Varadi, said Serbia could press charges against Croatia before the International Court of Justice, but that it is a political decision. On the other hand, let us remember that the full political and military leadership of the Republic of Serbia, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska has been indicted in this farce by the court. It was not enough for them either, and also accused the president of the largest political party in Serbia and in Serbs, the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj. To rely on Mr. Zutic's discussion, the shameful verdict was recently reached in the process against Republika Srpska President Milan Martic, who has been advertising him guilty and punishing him for 35 years in prison. According to Martic, the Hague judiciary wants to judge both Krajina and Krajisniki, and Prof. Vojislav Seselj. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7639	We're going back to the hearing according to the application for word. The word has been given by MP Dejan Radenkovic, followed by MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7640	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the proposed law on associations is the first in a set of acts to regulate a broad field of association of citizens in the coming period, which would finally bridge a legal act and a vacuum dating back over two decades. The social environment, the second system of values, has changed, but the European practice of modern democracy requires the creation of a new legal framework, where it would clearly define the place, purpose and role of the association of citizens. Starting with the contemporary experiences of Europe and countries in the environment, the legislator also introduced the specificities of our society, but also the need for a clear definition of the association of citizens in Serbia. Although sublegislative acts would require the establishment of a single regulatory body, which would articulate the real value of the work that associations are dealing with. First of all, because of the fact that there are already traditional associations in society with decades of rich tradition, to those who are more like an initiative to change social relations towards the problems that are manifested daily in the dynamics of the transition society. A special group of these organizations are phenomenal associations, which have been created with only one goal, some of which are unfortunately used for political needs of overthrowing authorities, which should be a clear line of distinction in the coming period between the general public action for a particular social group or for society as a whole and for the mutual interests of certain political elites, which should realise their ideas through a wider front, mainly through propaganda. It is therefore necessary to make clear the difference between the political and the functioning of the Association of Citizens for the benefit of the wider social community. Status definitions, as a clear programme and statute in accordance with the Constitution, must be the source of rights and obligations of each association. This should also apply to foreign organizations, as well as to their local branches, where there must be a clear nature of work to be done, but also to the work of these associations. In this segment, the legislator is quite liberal, which requires a clear definition of which segments and what needs of our society of this organisation should be dealt with. The legislative proposal does not clearly define the extent to which the association's measures can be profitable organisations, as well as under what conditions the association may have the right to dispose of immovable property in social and state property. The method of asset management is not a feature of European practice, but if this must be done, it should start from the previous status changes of social organisations from the beginning of the 1990s. First of all, because some youth organizations and associations without a clear legal framework alienated the property they de facto had, and now de jure was not owned. There is, of course, no need to mix the ownership of political parties, which cannot possibly be undermined under the entire assets of former socio-political organisations, since the property is clearly demarcated at the beginning of the last decade. It is therefore important that the Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia clearly determines the nature, but also the source of the right and jurisdiction over the property, in order to avoid so far volunteerism in interpreting the unconstitutional provisions of revolutionary laws after so-called so-called "regular" laws. democratic change. With these indeterminateities, but also legal gaps in the proposed law, it is necessary to define clearly through sublegative acts a new environment for the smooth work and development of social organisations, associations of citizens and the entire non-governmental sector. It is therefore necessary to support the legislative project, but with all the advantages that will be introduced either in the final form of the Association Act or in other legal or sublegal acts that will define the individual parts of the matter to which this law deals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7641	The word is a folk letter from Lidija Vukicevic, and after it is a folk letter from Jelena Travar.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7642	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens, today the draft law on associations is on the agenda. We've heard mostly commendable statements about the bill of association. Mostly, the MPs in the superlativ were expressing themselves and saying that, basically, the law is good, that very little needs to be changed. However, I would rather talk today about what has been the practice so far when it comes to the law on associations and how associations in Serbia function. Given that drastic changes to this law have not been made in relation to the past Law on Associations, I hope that this bill, until it is formed as a law on associations, will accept many amendments to the SRS and that, by doing so, we will try or in large part avoid the chaotic situation in our associations. So when we're talking about associations, as an actor, I'm going to think of what I'm thinking first, and what I would explain through my prism as an artist, it's that we have associations of dramatic artists, film artists, painters, vaar, we have cabbie associations, animal lovers' associations, and some other, conditionally speaking, millions of associations. What's important is what we should talk about here without being meaningful, and not only to praise and adopt because it's a DS proposal, because it's the right thing to do, because it's not going to take us anywhere, that's how and who controls the work of those associations. Of course, all these associations fall under certain ministries, depending on what they do. So far, practice has not shown that many associations are controlled and many malfeasances and many abuses have been committed. Before I say anything about abuses, which are even in the paper, you could read two years ago that she was a big hack about how the associations are being abused, I would refer to Article 10, which says, "The associations can establish at least three founders, with at least one of the founders having a seat, or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The founders of the association may be commercially capable of physical or legal persons. A minor, with 14 years of age, can be the founder of the association, with a certified written statement of consent of his legal representative, in accordance with the law." What do we need that for? We've accepted that there can be a minimum of three members and a minor of 14 years. Why would we introduce children? I don't mind a 14-year-old being a member, but why would he be the founder? You'll agree with me that a 14-year-old kid may not know the subject, doesn't care about a 14-year-old kid who's in puberty, might not be interested in that much. Then all the MPs go out and say, "Let's protect a 14-year-old kid." Why? Because then here in one of the members, the Constitutional Court takes sanctions against the offenders. Of course, a 14-year-old can't answer, answers the competent one or the one representing that child. It's some totally unnecessary stuff. I think that's the only reason for the EU's approach. Now, we're going to put a 14-year-old kid in charge. I don't mind being a member, but the founder, I don't think that's very practical. Two, three members, it's a little unserious. When a three-member assembly is set up, it is like an ad hoc group that was created to adopt the statutes, because no association without statutes can work, and the statute, as the highest legal act, must be in accordance with the law and the Constitution. So one serious association must surely involve more than three members of the association. Now I would come back specifically and plastically to explain what I meant when I was talking about the abuse of the association. Let's just say, as it's written and as it stands now under this bill of association, it's a propo of this control that I was saying that associations need to be more controlled, anyone on the street can go, say, usually go to the Association of Estradic Artists. That's not what I'm saying in my head, that's what the paper was, it was a big hack about two years ago, and I can document it for you if you want. So anyone goes to the Association of Estradic Artists and asks for a legal face, after a legal person issues certificates of work, issues a certificate and says, "Here's a confirmation that you're an estrictive artist and that, say, in Frankfurt or I don't know where you have a concert. "The man who went to get that certificate, which was issued to him as an esthetic artist, deals entirely with some sixth act. However, at the expense of confirming that he is an estrate artist or actor, painter or vayar, he will be easier to obtain a visa. We had a problem with many embassies two years ago because embassies called these large associations and said, "Wait, we don't agree here, the legal face must have a record of who is all the members of the Association of Drama, Fine Arts, Estradic Artists and how these people are bribed to get a visa to go abroad." We don't know what these people do abroad or what they do. So it's a disgrace that's inadmissible and that's why I insist on controlling the association. What's very sad, and I don't think there's much to talk about, is that NGOs won't literally, I use that word to finance associations of kidnapped, missing, murdered. Gentlemen, ask yourselves why this is so and whether it should be the subject of discussion at all. There's something else I wanted to say. A moment ago, Mr. Micunovic looked back perhaps more on European values and how we are glorifying and giving meaning to more of these European values, and traditional values may have tried to disabling a little bit of that, to say the least. I don't think even in this bill of association, we're not celebrating or glorifying our traditional values, I don't know why. We are increasingly trying to avoid and talk about our tradition, and you will agree that there is no room for it, simply because, while the French rulers ruled the castles, Serbian rulers founded churches, duties and everything they left us. Therefore, we should be proud of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7643	National MP Milan Veselinovic has a word. The SRS has 20.50 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to apologize for being out there at that moment, but here, given our colleagues from the SRS and the rest of the opposition, we have seen today that there are large reserves under this association law. As a man who's long been a member of the Serbian Shooting Association, I can say that this law has many contradictions, anomalies, which even confuse us MPs, not to say ordinary citizens. In fact, the law on associations, as you can see, is written a hill-down, and it is seen that once again after the intervention of someone from the EU, this law, as well as other laws, is one solution that will be accepted by the EU, that is, you Europeans need to meet everything to become members of the EU one day, in which we Serbian citizens do not believe. The Law on Associations is an important law and should not have such provisions as are in collegiate against each other. First of all, if we see that one association can form three members, even minors, then it means that every family in Serbia can have an association and can become a legal factor in this society. The specific shortcomings of this law are contained in this way and through this law want to legalise many associations that have so far not found their place in other laws, starting with NGOs, especially those of foreign organisations that have been operating our country for years, and all the way to religious communities. I remind you that even religious sects could not pass in the Law on Religious Communities, and unfortunately this law allows certain religious sects to have their own associations and can legally work in our country. We have things here that almost have centralistic features, and above all, I mean some rigorous measures that would be taken to prevent the work and functioning of the association, and you can see it from the very violations that are foreseen under this law. You can see for yourself that there are criminal provisions that can punish a responsible person and associations from 10,000 dinars to 400,000 dinars. I wonder if associations form minors from 14, 15, or 16 years old, who will pay that sentence. Do parents or anyone else who's guaranteed to become a member of the association? It's one contradiction contained in this law. If you wanted to give freedom, free association, then you should aim at this law so that people, citizens, freely join together, make their associations, in order to maybe meet some of their common needs, whether they're sporting or otherwise. You know these associations aren't mostly profitable. They're non-profit associations. However, those associations that are registered, and those other non-registered, fall under the law of audit and accounting. This means that the goal was to write this law, and I think the idea was Dinkic, to simply fiscalize everything that moves in this country. This is the ultimate goal of carrying out fiscalization and associations, and those that are not profitable and those that are profitable, and such measures are foreseen that all those associations that are inadequate, especially not with power or in the interest of the authorities, can be abolished whenever you think of them. Here I cannot mention the association of KIM citizens related to the kidnapped and missing Serbs, an association that has been dating for several years, and no one is paying attention to him, in the sense of helping the association, in the sense that it is materially provided, so that they can further explore those people who have disappeared, to help families of the people with kiM. The legalization of foreign associations is, in fact, the legalisation of all those who are doing this to our country, and here primarily by supporting this law by the LDP and many from the DOS since 2000, means that it was simply written before 2000, but here you are today making it happen. This ends with my colleagues saying something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7645	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, to prepare Dragan Stevanovic according to the Rules of Procedure. You're still 13 minutes away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the representatives of the parliamentary majority, we've heard a lot of praise for the bill of association. However, simple reading without a lot of dents can detect numerous weaknesses, i.e. numerous legal gaps that will in practice cause a number of problems tomorrow. Let's start with Article 2. I think the Ministry has missed, as the body that probably prepared the draft of this law, to enter into Article 2 a provision that the association within the meaning of this law must not have any activity that involves interference in the work of state bodies, or institutions. There are no such provisions in the bill. I heard, and we all heard, from Mr. Micunovic a series of praises at the expense of NGOs that exist in Serbia and the world. I admit there are a lot of NGOs who are really involved in humanitarian work. Such NGOs should be welcomed and supported to continue their activities. Unfortunately, Serbia has since 1991 faced the fact that we have had a large number of NGOs that were only formally NGOs. Basically, they were foreign governments' institutions that had the goal of destabilising the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to show the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people abroad in the worst possible light. Also, the fact is that we have had a number of NGOs directly involved in the work of state authorities and institutions. A dramatic example is the case of Natasha Kandic and the Humanitarian Law Fund, which openly interferes with the work of judicial state authorities in the Republic of Serbia. As regards the provision that secret and paramilitary associations are prohibited in the Republic of Serbia, such a provision in the law, on the one hand, is not sufficient, and on the other hand it is contradictory with Article 4. The bill, where it's said that the register of the association is voluntary. Mr. Minister, it's a secret society that isn't registered. The state acquires insight into what associations exist only when it registers them. Those who are not registered are from the point of view of the law of secrets, or the state does not know about them. What it says in Article 2 that a secret association is forbidden is directly contrary to what it says in Article 4 that the registration of the association register is voluntary. This means that some associations can be registered, if they want to, and some associations do not have to be enrolled, and one and the other will exist in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It remains unclear what the state will do against secret associations that exist in the Republic of Serbia, we all know there are, which have an exceptional political impact on the work of state authorities. First of all, I mean the Masonic lodges, which apparently have an impact on the work of individual ministers, on the work of certain state authorities. Now I'm not talking about the masseary from the point of view of its religious, or philosophical principles that are contrary to Christianity, but I'm talking about that secret association and these secrets being deposited will, in addition to its philosophical principles, have an impact on the functioning of the state in the Republic of Serbia. It is, Mr. Minister, to you, I hope, entirely familiar. In Article 3, the Proposer stated that the objectives cannot be related to certain associations, i.e. that associations must not act by violating the constitutional order of Serbia, to disrupt territorial integrity, to raise questions about racial, national, religious rights, to discrimination by gender, gender, physical, mental or other characteristics and abilities. However, Mr. Minister, I draw your attention to a phenomenon that is unfortunately spread in the Republic of Serbia and spread throughout the world. This phenomenon is called sexual abuse of children, or pedophilia. I looked around the Internet a little bit, so I found some data on the subject. We have heard from Mr. Micunovic many praises that there are many NGOs in Western Europe that are involved in humanitarian work. I'm sorry Mr. Micunovic isn't here. In the Netherlands, you have an NGO, Mr. Minister, which is registered, which does not act as a secret association, the NGO Martin, whose goal is to promote pedophilia. In France, you have the NGO of Zoya's ark, which is also involved in promoting pedophilia. Since pedophilia, unfortunately, is a widespread social phenomenon in Serbia, I draw you attention to one fact, Mr. Minister. What you wrote in Article 3 will not prevent the functioning of such organisations, because the question is whether paedophilia can be brought under the syntagm to promote gender inequality, since unfortunately the state sometimes widely interprets the Constitution, laws, etc., I fear that in practice there might be room for such organisations, which are completely contrary to Christian morality, to find some empty space and yet act. There's something left that's not regulated by this law. One of my predecessors said that legal solutions gave too many rights and freedoms to foreign NGOs. You see, Mr. Minister, there will be a problem in practice. What happens if an NGO whose headquarters is abroad, and acts in the Republic of Serbia, decides to say on a building where the state flag of the country has its seat stands out. By the way, such practice is spread across Serbia today. If you have noticed in almost all enterprises of the former social society, which are privatised by foreign capital owners, there must be a national flag of the country from which the buyer of the company comes. The question arises what about the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. For example, you have in this bill such a provision that is so broadly guaranteed to you, Mr Minister, that tomorrow when you adopt this law in Serbia will be able to act, say, the association of people who deal with NATO intervention traditions in the Republic of Serbia, or the Association of War Veterans of the Kosovo Liberation Army. What if someone comes to mind tomorrow to point out to their association the Albanian flag on Prince Michael's street. You have absolutely no mechanism to prevent it, and that could really happen. Mr. Minister, one purely legal illogicality. In Article 26, you said that registers of associations established in the territory of the AP are run by the competent authority of the AP administration as a trusted business, and I can understand that. But Section 4 says this: The ministry keeps records of the association registered in the register run by the competent authority of the AP administration. That means the province will keep records, as well as your ministry. Why do you trust the job if you're going to do the job yourself? In any case, this bill on association laws, although you have reportedly prepared it for years since 2000, has been filled with legal gaps and will in practice cause great legal and political chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7647	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for article 104, violation of the dignity of the Assembly and violation of the dignity of all MPs. Unfortunately, you too are the object of all these problems and humiliations that are happening in the Serbian Parliament, all because of the fact that one spare political group would survive in Serbia's parliament. Absolutely not for the ruling majority, i.e. the top of the ruling majority of any move, even harmful to you, politically harmful, in order to maintain this surreal, unnatural, criminal and punishable situation in the Serbian Parliament to the limits possible. How is it possible, gentlemen, for you to allow, just to end this, to complete in every way possible the task they put before you, to give up the speech you applied for? Here comes Mr. Mirko Chikiriz, who always has something to say behind this pay phone. He agrees to humble himself. Your goal is to end this farce in the Serbian Parliament. You're giving up all moral principles, because you're not interested. Your ruling summit wants to give itself a certain advantage in the upcoming elections, for which it is already very much being prepared. You don't know that, but it's already done. Since you are certain that you cannot win either with the help of the package or with the help of TV, you now needed to have a spare variant with the help you will try to stay in power. Here, the question arises, why did Mr. Radoslav Milinovic of ZES give up the discussion? Also, Dr. Janko Veselinovic, also Mirko Cikiriz, Aleksandar Jugovic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Milan Vukkovic. What are these reasons, gentlemen Members, for you to give up these discussions? You accuse the SRS and opposition MPs of obstructing the Serbian Parliament, and how do you behave? You have no right to say one word after this. This is important for Serbian citizens to see what you are ready to do to fulfill the task that your political leadership gives you. As far as the SRS is concerned, we will not give up our rights, no matter what you say or what you say about us. We will insist on those rights we have, on those results we received from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and on the number of MPs we have after the elections that took place in May 2008.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7649	There's a word Mr. Dragan Stevanović, please. What, you're picking up the business again, Mr. Chiquiriz. You haven't answered. Please, Mr. Chiquiriz, have you answered? Yes, it is. Here you go. Mr. Dragan, are you giving up the discussion or do you want to talk? And you want to follow the Rules of Procedure, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7650	It's a business thing. I think Mr Dragan Todorovic gave up people on the list for European Serbia absolutely misread. The law was praised by 90% of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The law is extremely prepared by both the ministry and the professional services. I think it will surely be adopted by a two-thirds majority and it is absolutely unnecessary for the tenth time to repeat all its good provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7651	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I thank you, Mr. Chikiriz - an accurate finding, absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7652	I don't mind, Madam Chairman, that you commend Mr. Chiquiriz, but I wonder what's going on with those before Mr. Mirko Chiquiriz. What about them, they do not seem to accept your values or the quality of this law, so they went out to support it with their discussions and to persuade the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7653	Mr. Todorovic, just to let you know there's no transmission, just so you know. All right, let's get it over with, keep going, but just so you know, there's no transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7654	Madam Chairman, this wasn't about the transfer, this was about the MPs. Wait, you won't let me protect your MPs. I volunteered under Article 104 to protect the dignity of the MPs from the ruling coalition that appeared before Mr Chikiriz. Because he obviously questioned some of their options in some way. Because if you figured that out, and they didn't, then the logical question is, who's right here -- you figure it out, or those who talked about it before, Mr. Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7655	Gentlemen People's MPs, since there are four more minutes of the SRS parliamentary group in the debate, there are two registered MPs from the SRS list still here, then we will have to do it at 19.00 p.m. when the transfer begins to continue. I think I'd better make an appointment in 19.15 hours. It'll be safer if we have a transmission then. So we continue at 7:15 p.m. [[After break – 19.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The Rules of Procedure advertise Mrs. Verica Radeta, and then Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7657	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly ask for a notice and an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, and on what circumstances, I intend to explain. On these days, when a set of judicial laws was discussed, we were talking about how this ruling majority was going to carry out the lustration of judges, or judges, on the contrary. Of course, both from the resolute minister and from the ruling majority MPs, we heard that it had nothing to do with it, regardless of the daily pressures of the public by various judicial associations, and the Judges and Judges' Association individually, but of course they plotted it and that's how it should be. Here's how you put pressure on the court and how you tell the judges - if there's a different decision, you take care of it, the lustration follows. Dragan Gilas, mayor of Belgrade, says -- if the court says that what was done is not legal, then it is the obligation of the city's assembly to introduce temporary measures at its first next session, but it is not necessary to prejudge the matter but to wait for the court's decision, Gilas said in a report -- Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas said temporary measures would be imposed if the court found that the Zemuna Assembly was held in an illegal manner on November 17th, and he believes so. Of course, the Zemun Municipal Assembly has been held absolutely in accordance with the positive regulations and of course whoever keeps an eye on the law will not be able to decide otherwise, but that is why Dragan Gilas sends a message to the council that will deal with complaints filed by those who have tried to obstruct the work of the Zemun municipality. First of all, this Novički, head of a parliamentary group in the DS municipality of Zemun, which is along with a certain Milan Bojovic, who was excluded from the SRS because he acted contrary to the political stances of the SRS. I speak those names because they were seen in a direct television broadcast stealing an Angelkovic, who is a member of the electoral commission, taking her to some big black limousine. Of course, Pink TV has enabled direct transmission of these criminal acts. Of course, what kind of television, what kind of boss, that's what the program is. I'll continue later after I've wasted my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7658	National MP Mr. Jojic. As for the answer to your question, apparently the Ministry of Justice or the authorities of the judiciary will say theirs. I really don't want to reconsider.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7659	Madam President of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does this state think that the legal order of our country should be respected? The legal order of the Serbian state and democracy in action, according to one -- not this democracy, is merely an incubation. If it were an incubation, it can also be seen by the way Gilas behaves, how this bully in Belgrade treats the people, i.e. Councillors in the city hall of Zemun. Does this gentleman think he will be able to order someone to make a different decision than the representatives of the Zemun municipality did? Does he think it can't be published in an official messenger? It's going to be published because there's a decision. As long as there is a single parliament's decision, which is the local parliament of the Zemun municipality, it will be respected, as the decision has been made in a legal and legal manner. Who has the right to end that decision and the will of the people? It's an end to the people's will. And the one who threatens to introduce temporary measures in Zemun, he should first of all think he should not be put into temporary measures soon in the Belgrade City Assembly and run out of office. As things take place, it can happen very quickly. If it's a matter of law, then it must be equally respected. No one has the right to pressure the local authorities of self-government, nor does Gilas, the one who has his associates, even some who have strayed from the SRS. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you as an expert and as a lawyer know well that every decision must be made public. The decision was made in the municipality of Zemun in one legal way. It was brought by local self-government, brought by the council by the majority of the votes. Who has the right to end that decision? Who has the right to disobey that decision? Who has the right to put her out of legal power? There's no one in this country. So, and if it's from democracy, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7660	I would take the opportunity to remind you that the SRS has four minutes left to bring this debate to an end in principle and that we could continue tomorrow's work. National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing pressure on the judiciary, we are also witnessing this information that the council is delivering to us in response to our complaints. I must meet the citizens, and so must you MPs, how the same judicial council, according to the same cases, with the same meanings of the assembly sessions of municipalities and weights, makes a different solution. So, first I'll talk about how much time it allows me, so I'll get back to you, I'll talk about a case from the Belgrade District Court, composed of Sladjana Bojovic, Željko Skoric and Zivana Djukanovic, who made a reluctant verdict at the request of the Zvezda Municipality's board of directors, with an explanation that the request cannot be positively resolved because the administrative and mandated commission of the municipality had no quorum to decide. Furthermore, the same judicial council, the same composition of judges, Sladjana Bojovic, Zivana Djukanovic and Zeljko Skoric, respect the same verdicts for the second municipality, but literally the same verdict, according to the same case, where the municipality's assembly also did not give the quorum intent to decide the administrative mandated commission. Another, a simple example of how mandates are stolen in co-operation between the DS and the Progressive Party of Serbia. A council member from Vrakar municipality filed a complaint and asked for the SRS' mandates to return. As part of the judge, Mirjana Arangelovic, Mirjana Ridjski, Dusica Marinkovic, this composition of the judge returns and honours the appeal of this committee from Vracar municipality, with the reason that the facts and Article 47 are widely known, and says this more - there has been no report by the Administrative and Mandatory Commission on the reasons for the termination of the term of office and ultimately gives an explanation that this did not affect the verdict, with certain circumstances mentioned. It is called even if it is not a questionable matter that these committees have written a new request to the Third Municipal Court for the annulment of the parties' relations agreements with each other, and points out in a statement that this cannot affect the verdict. Then this same larger, same composition of judges, gives the Starlight a negative fact in the same complaint, only the other councilmen and other municipalities. I don't have time. I'll continue when I get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7662	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7663	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, after this victory, it is likely that much better to hear and understand what the National Assembly is doing, and Serbian citizens know that it is a very important work and all that is said in the National Assembly, because talking is the main job here. I'm referring to those art ones. In 225 and 226, and I am taking the opportunity to at least have one government official in the National Assembly, with the conclusion that probably half of the government should not enter here, together or individually, like Djelic, Dinkic, that I do not order further. I believe that for the National Assembly, for MPs and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia it is extremely important at this time to get an answer, but a quality answer, from the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Director of Bija, you can also get involved in this, and not only as president of the National Assembly, but also according to your basic vocality. The question is, who designed this campaign to be a life like this in the Republic of Serbia? Let me explain. The fact is that since the fourth democratic government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, Serbia has been shaken by total chaos. We pass a law on the state border, no one knows where the border is, we banish the ambassadors -- we return the ambassadors; the Eulex question is resolved, it's not settled, it's not settled; the question of respect for our constitution is the last hole in the play. You say, the global financial crisis, I say economic downturn and social misery in Serbia. You can see for yourself that your partners and friends from abroad have some of their own chronometers and have some of your chronology, so on very difficult dates they make very important and crucial decisions for the fate of the Republic of Serbia. Something new that we have, someone came up with not only this campaign, but a campaign to take people's eyes out in the same house, in the same apartment. It's a relationship father retired, son employed. Now the kids call their parents pensioners, so they say, because you're unreal, they need someone else to kidnap to give to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7664	Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think this train you've boarded, believing that you're going to Europe, will lead Serbia into a complete debauchery, or sunflower. Mr. Minister, I personally have the conviction that you are, as far as possible, a correct man and a good lawyer. I'm sure, at a time when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed, at least you showed great will and a desire to pass a law that would regulate relations regarding local self-government, especially when it comes to the theft of council members who have been happening across Serbia in many municipalities. As I recall, you have really made an extraordinary effort to specify and, unlike the Law on selecting Members of the People, you are precisely defining ways, given that the elections are proportionate, that political parties go to elections, or groups of citizens, not to go out, to prevent this political prostitution, or trade in parliamentary mandates. Personally, I think that law, as far as it goes, is extremely high quality. I think the SRS at the time also showed an extremely high co-operation and a desire for the law to be as good as possible, so that no matter what party is in power, which is in opposition, it is precisely because we have had great and unpleasant experience when it comes to trading in parliamentary mandates. Now I ask you a very simple question that I think you can give me an answer -- what is it that judges Sladjana Bojovic, Zeljko Skorić and Zivana Djukanovic, judges of the Belgrade District Court, pass such scandalous verdicts? What reason is that, Mr. Minister? Can you explain to the citizens of Serbia and to the MPs whether these moral freaks, you bastard, can in this way derivate your law? How can 150 judgments be in line with the Law on Local Self-Government, and these three moral freaks, in this way, just because the re-election of judges is being prepared, make such politically motivated decisions? What do you think you're doing with this country, what do you think you're doing, forcing these moral bastards to make these judgments? I can see that you can't even look me in the eye, not because of you, but because you're ashamed of the kind of scum that makes judgments like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7666	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7667	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Todorovic, one idiot told you - I can't even see you. I can't watch the traitors either, but what I'm going to do when I have to, there you are in the Serbian Parliament until the next election, so when the people send you away with a ballot, and when they tell you that you've sold the state, KIM, robbed you, left you on the verge of poverty and poverty by millions of citizens, then you'll ask yourself, and especially this unfortunate man who is with KIM, who can't watch Serbian patriots and the president of our parliamentary group. I reply, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, under Rule 225 and 226, to ask the question this way to Mrs Malovic, whom we expect to come and discuss in the amendments to the set of laws. Mr. Minister, since you're here, maybe you can tell me, you're a graduate lawyer, you're one of the DS officials, under which criteria will be re-election of judges and prosecutors, because Mrs. Malovic, as published by a daily newspaper, said at a conference in Belgrade that there will be specified criteria and that these people have to work by conscience, by law, and to be honorable and moral, etc. Mr. Markovic, I am not happy at all with this transmission through the esteemed colleague Radete, a copy of the review of the case law regarding the Law on Local Elections. This is a disaster. The most important thing you don't have is that the judges in Kragujevac, and the six criminals in the right sense, are in the right words, that in the most harsh way possible they have violated the Law on Local Elections, that they have taken a judicial decision, which has not been recorded in court practice so far, have acted as if they were deciding and that the District Court in Kragujevac is an administrative authority, not a judicial authority, which is stated in the law that they must respect what the will of citizens is. Mr. Markovic, judges, the president of the first, may be a relative, but in any case, this criminal, Miroljub Tomic, the President of the District Court, a friend of this citizen Nikolic, and with him in agreement, did this. So, Radovanka Nikolic, as president of the council, Vesna and Milunka Cvetkovic, probably relatives or perhaps not, as members of the council in the case against the decision of the Kragujevac City Assembly, and others larger, which are Obren Jezdić, the council president, Simonida Miloradovic and Aleksandar Blanuša, made that scandalous decision, Mr Markovic, which they say they do not want to respect certified contracts, resignations and powers for ten parliamentary mandates in the town of Kragujevac, elected from the SRS list. What criteria does Mrs Malovic speak of then? How can you get out and stand for anything when the state is in complete chaos? There's no value left. The constitution is not respected, the law, Mr. Markovic, which you've promoted to all bells. Mr. Todorovic said these are moral scum. These are big criminals. (President: Time. ) Miroljub Tomic, the six judges I read. We filed criminal charges and the municipal public prosecutor and the republican, but no one is responding. We're gonna get this thing to the end. This way, I am ordering Veroljub Stevanović and this Milenić, and the entire city public, and you, Mrs Djukić-Dejanovic, because you were also a committeeman. We have activated your resignation by the SPS in the same procedure that, as an authorized person, activated ten resignations of these traitors. Be assured that we will fight to the end for every vote of Kragujevčan, because they wanted the SRS committees in the City Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7668	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7669	I'm finishing up, but this is just the beginning. Here you go, dear Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7670	I'd like to ask you to finish today's session, since we have four minutes left. (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: Thank you for the warning. It's not a warning, it's a notice to the public and to all of us, and a reminder, I know you don't want anyone to warn you. I assume you agreed to advertise the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Dragan, are you still on the list? Please, just be quiet. Mrs. Radeta has a word, then Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7671	It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that shortly before the time we began this afternoon, or evening work of Parliament. A member of 173 was injured because there was no transmission of the National Assembly session at the time I was talking about this problem. I don't think it was done on purpose. It just happened that way and we're not making, of course, a question about it, but since the topic that I was talking about is extremely relevant and that we're talking about this tomorrow, I'm afraid, wouldn't make any sense. So I reported that again, according to Article 226, I was asking for a notice from the president of the National Assembly, and the president of the National Assembly knows from whom he will ask, with an explanation of how you heard earlier, but the Serbian public did not hear that Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas said temporary measures would be imposed if the court found that the Zemun Assembly was held in an illegal manner on November 17th, in what he believes. This is the most direct attack on the judicial authorities, specifically on the larger ones, which will or will be decided by some citizens' complaints, which relate to decisions made completely legally and in accordance with the law and municipal acts in the city municipality of Zemun. This is what we have warned days ago, that this is what you plan with the lustration of judges, with the resolution of all to set up the ones you want. You want all judges to be like those spoken of by Dragan Todorovic and Natasa Jovanovic, all at the service and on the channel of the ruling majority. In this way, Dragan Gilas warns judges of the District Court in Belgrade, if you do not make a decision on the basis of which I, Dragan Gilas, will introduce a forced administration in the city municipality of Zemun, make sure that you are no longer lustrated in the re-election process, you will no longer be a judge. We are convinced that judges are honorable, most judges and honest and honest people, and that they work in accordance with the law, as over 150 decisions were made that were in accordance with the law on the same subject as these two who were illegal. This is where Dragan Gilas, or B92 TV, gave space to the government, as they beat him, Novicka, is the head of the committee group, and I will finish in about ten seconds, head of the DS's parliamentary group in Zemun municipality. Novicki is with a certain Milan Bojovic, who has been excluded from the SRS because of his misbehavior to party attitudes. They kidnapped a certain Miss Angelkovic from the commission session. This Julyer, Pink TV Zeljko Mitrovic, carried it directly, heading towards a big limousine, running through the Zemun municipality building and taking that girl away. Of course, it's a friend of one of those who's saying that these councilmen from the Zemun municipality, who were kidnapped, didn't go to the Progressive Party. They didn't cross. They were kidnapped by Brana Prostra, Milan Bojovic, Damir Kovacevic, under the stick of Aleksandra Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7672	National MP Jojic has a word, and then Mr Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7673	I report under the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask for information on which member and on what legal basis has Miladin Kovacevic been deprived? Since the Code of Criminal Procedure in the provisions of Article 142 provides - if there is a reasonable doubt that a person has committed a criminal offence, and there are no conditions for detention under Article 1 of this Article, in order to carry out the criminal proceedings against that person uninterrupted, detention may be determined under the following conditions - if it is hidden or if its identity cannot be established, or if there are other circumstances that indicate the danger of escape. This is not the case with Mr., our fellow citizen, Miladin Kovacevic. Second, if there are circumstances that show that they will destroy, hide, alter or forge evidence or trace of a criminal offence or if the specific circumstances indicate that they will interfere with the procedure of influence on witnesses, accomplices or disguisers. Who will be affected by Miladin Kovacevic from Serbia, Belgrade? Those who claim evidence should be provided from the U.S. Third, if specific circumstances indicate that they will repeat the crime or complete the attempted crime, or that they will commit a crime to which they threaten. Please, how can Miladin Kovacevic repeat a crime from Belgrade in the United States. How is he going to jeopardize the life of Hillary Clinton, when she as a diplomat has now reported that she is raising this to an interstate level and asking for him to be delivered and tried in America? Fourthly, if the defendant is properly invited, he obviously avoids coming to the main search. Please, Miladin Kovacevic will appear before the Belgrade competent court if the Belgrade court finds that there are reasonable suspicions that he has committed a criminal offence prosecuted by official duty. It's not there. So, please, Madam President, I'm asking you to let me know if the President of the Supreme Court, through the Supervisory Board, will make an insight into the case file relating to the criminal case against Miladin Kovacevic, who can't attack, but you saw, he can defend himself. He just slapped a glipter of the American who attacked his girlfriend and thus threatened the integrity, sovereignty and legitimacy of that individual in the United States. Why is such an evaluation given to him? (President: Time. I'll finish. So, please get a notice why he is not allowed to visit relatives, sisters, and parents, why is custody not lifted when there is absolutely no valid evidence that he has committed a crime? (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. This is being tried by the order of Hillary Clinton. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7674	There were a number of issues to be addressed to the authorities of the investigation and to the Ministry of Justice, or to the authorities of the judiciary. Otherwise, I would also like to inform both you and the public that, without the questions you asked today, 195 questions are addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and to the resolution ministries and that we expect answers to these questions. The word is Mr. Dobrislav Prelic, then Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7675	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I'm advocating the violation of Article 104, which is - MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, Mrs. Comic today, as your first vice president, held a session in your absence and informed the MPs that there will be no lunch break today, that we will continue until 17.00 hours and that the session will be interrupted due to the football game. There is no problem for the SRS and to continue the work, but it is also good that the minister is here to see what is done in the National Assembly and that the National Assembly is doing as Mrs. Nada Kolundji demands. This isn't the first time. In fact, Mr. Minister, the other day, probably because of the problem in both the government and the majority of the National Assembly, Hope Kolundji lost a little compass one moment and addressed Mrs. Vereca Radeti in an extremely rude way and said - whatever you want, I'm going to throw you all out. Is that democracy, Mr. Markovic? We heard Mr. Micunovic talking to us about some tradition today, but that there was a lot of violence in that tradition, that there was no democracy, that there was dictatorship, and that then the citizens were simply putting themselves into something passive, that the citizens said that it was not worth anything. I would now remind you of what you have done to our citizens since 2000 and what the citizens of Serbia now think of your dictatorship since 2000. They say, not that it's not worth talking about, but that all that's left is for you to take the soul away from the citizens, because all you could sell is why. Now, in the end, when there are little businesses left to sell, especially agriculture, the mass Croatian tycoons buy us land by Vojvodina, and you know what it means when someone buys us land and territorially enslaves us... Time, will you bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... There's nothing left to do but serve. I'm sorry, ma'am. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7676	National MP Radiša Ilic, then Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of my notification to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 226, is a notice from the Ministry of Justice on how it is possible that, on the exact same requirements, in this case, the SRS appeals for the return of the mandate of the board, the county courts make different decisions. I have here decisions of a dozen district courts that are identical, only county courts in Kragujevac, Jagodina and Belgrade found to judge, believe it or not, according to the rules of procedure of the city's assembly or according to the rules of procedure of the municipality. Even so, as I said, a huge number of district courts respect the Law on Local Elections, and they pass judgments on it. As far as district courts in Kragujevac and Jagodina are concerned, there seem to be some other arches for them. It is particularly a tragic situation in Jagodina, where the city's assembly, believe it or not, returns the mandates of the SRS for the second time, but the District Court in Jagodina, for some ridiculous reasons, cancels and returns to re-determination. I'd just mention those judges who sort of dared to take what belonged to the SRS. In this case, the president of the council, Dragica Petrovic, and Judge Mirjana Vojnovic, Nebojsa Šeperac, Ruzica Mihajlovic, etc. First, the Jagodina District Court called for a deadline when applications for the activation of the blank resignations were filed, and there is no deadline in the Local Elections Act. So the Jagodina District Court put itself in a position to judge the city’s assembly rather than under the Law on Local Elections. They'd probably be judging by the statutes of the local community, just to be at the expense of the SRS. In the case of complaints, the same story was repeated on the mandate for the committees in gurija and in Despotovac, as if the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of the Municipality were a sacred letter for the District Court in Jagodina. Have you heard of any verdicts by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I haven't heard, and probably neither have you. The second reason for accepting the second complaint from the same fugitives from the SRS, believe it or not, is the time when they received the material for the session, whether it was Friday morning or noon, whether it was five days ago, as if it were some crucial facts. The resignations were handed over in time and only left to confirm it. How can, for example, the Krusevec District Court decide to adopt an SRS appeal for the termination of the board's mandate in SO Brus, which were handed over just before the beginning, or, say, in Tristenik, which was handed over the day before the session, or for Shabac? So I ask the minister of justice - what has the Serbian justice system become? Each one in his own adjudication judges as he wishes. Do you have any power, or ability to protect the laws that have been passed in this congregation?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7678	Mr. Milan Avramović, then Mr. Zoran Krasic, then Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7679	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a criminal case of how it works in the Belgrade District Court. So, according to complaint, UZ 84/08, the council of the Municipality of Zvezdare has filed a complaint to return the municipal mandates of the SRS, the appeal was rejected for the following reasons, it is said: "The court finds that the correct decision of the Zvezdakar City Municipality Assembly, which has decided not to accept a request for the termination of the term of office of those committees, because the applicant does not have a legally valid agreement on the regulation of mutual relations between the applicants of the electoral list and candidates in the City Municipality of Zvezdakar, in accordance with the provisions of Article 47." Ladies and gentlemen, is this possible for the second paragraph to be called to article 47; the same judge to refer to the same member from two different cases? He says this: "For the sake of the authority of the applicant of the electoral list, each of those committees has personally concluded and court-sanctioned the agreement on the termination of the contract on the regulation of mutual relations, on 15.09." Ladies and gentlemen, article 47 says, "The resignations and powers given in the blank resignations cannot be revoked." This judge is calling for this, and he's mad at the councilman who wrote the complaint, which has no original annulment of this contract. Let me tell you what's going on in the Municipality of Starship and in the Third District Court. Since this judge has called for this request, it is said that "You do not have complete documentation and agreement on the termination of the contract", which legally cannot exist. Dusan Stupar, an authorized person to conclude a contract, uses the same authority as three or four months later, the same authority uses, to break the contract, which is legally impossible. I'll remind you that in a court of law such paper, such authority has passed on the overture, and I'll remind you of only one thing that is very important, if the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts says, "If it is necessary to verify the signature of a person, as a representative of another person, entity or other organisation, the official will execute the overu after having previously determined whether that person is authorised to represent you." This person is not authorized to represent, has no authority, and has succeeded in the Third Municipal Court to verify the termination of the contract. By what law, by which provision can this be implemented in this quasi-democratic and legal state? (President: Time. I'm sorry, I'm done. Based on this falsified review in court, the court is calling for this as a legal basis, giving a negative solution and stealing the mandates of the SRS. Now, you explain to me where he can do it, who can, and when will this judge answer for this sort of thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7680	National MP Zoran Krasic, then Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7681	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, just when I wanted to stop saying something, you interrupted me and I didn't finish thinking. So, again, the topic of who designed the campaign in which the father of the pensioner and the son of the employee or the unemployed are supposed to argue about whether retirement or employment is the priority. It's not for no reason. These guys have managed to fight everything, and there's only that tight family left. And they're doing it successfully. Why? They are preparing the ground for some future elections, where Serbian citizens would vote against themselves, voting for "emergency" and the like. Of course, I'm not going to get an answer to this question, although I've called a whole bunch of state authorities to find some answer to that question. However, I get the impression that the atmosphere is a little spooky and that there is a need to speed up the pace. Here, I am taking the opportunity to ask a question and ask Mr. Ivica Dacic's notice, since he is three-headedly tied to the government of the Republic of Serbia, as minister, as vice president, to answer my question: did Boris Tadic sign a warrant for the official trip to his cabinet chief, who is artisticly named Miki Rakic, so that he and Alexander Vukic in the Netherlands would arrange these things that are happening? If something is not clear to Mr. Dacic, please contact me at a familiar address. I'm one of the eyewitnesses of that event. There were funny scenes, but I'm an eyewitness to what we're interested in. Why am I asking this as a question? Because I'm running out of time, so in the third reporting, I'm going to make you an adequate connection between Vukic, Rakic, Gilas, the Zemun municipality, the location, the tycoon, the land seized, the money taken, and the unsupervised land, which is why there's supposed to be something here in Belgrade, and the Ministry of State and local self-government won't have any effect on that, nor will they likely have any courts. I therefore call upon these members of the Society of Judges, to follow this transmission, and when they hear the name and name of one of their colleagues, members of the Society of Judges, let them ask what is not true in what the MPs of the SRS read from the relevant judgments, where different judgments are made for the same legal matter and the exact fact of the situation. Of course, I'm taking the opportunity to inform you, Mrs. Djukic, that I'm gonna call you back, so I don't ruin this time for Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7682	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7683	I was just saying, he bought you Krasic over time, so you're taking him away from me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 226, and I'm asking this question directly to the Minister of the Interior. By the way, I'm asking you gentlemen MPs from the ruling coalition, above all, from the DS. Based on this information, you will be very simply able to see where your political leadership leads you. Don't be mistaken, there's nothing from this country, she doesn't have a future. There is an oligarchy in this country that wishes to remain in power at all costs. If that's true, now I'm going to give you a few facts that will prove completely that these claims are true. You had a chance to see a celebration yesterday, as one of the most important and great personalities approached a new political party. When it comes to the gentleman in question, I will give you some facts that best reflect what kind of man he is and what kind of party he is going into. He says, "Two years ago, a budgetary inspection, along with the co-operation of witnesses from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, at the time of outgoing Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic, came to know of abuses in the ministry. It is about the millions of amounts foreseen in the budget to encourage the development of activity from the ministry's competence. The budget inspection was immediately reported by the Special Prosecutor's Office, the Department of Combating Organized Financial Crime, Chief Miljko Radisavljevic, who with SBPOK, i.e. the Department of Combating Organized Financial Crime, Chief of the Department Mr Trninic, gave the order to check the above-mentioned abuses in the said ministry." The inspector who received a specific task is named Zoran Kosovac, a man who is considered one of the most capable investigators. Working securely, with the help of the said co-worker, the inspector mentioned, doing a check, among other things, came to know about the payment of state money to private accounts in Great Britain through fictitious accounts, says, "There has been a check through their police," a total of three times 100,000 euros, 300,000 euros. (President: Time. ) These payments, if I may finish, I think it is interesting for you and for your minister....
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7684	Yes, you can. Yes, it is. I don't find it interesting.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7685	It's only to be seen about the quality of these people who are going to win the next election, because they're going to have that password... Finish it, please. )......................................................................................................... Criminals of all countries unite. These payments were paid to a private university in Novi Sad, behold, miracles, he says, where Bojan Dimitrijevic became a dean immediately after his post. These allegations are not even five percent of the crimes described in the SBPOK report, submitted to the special prosecutor's office, i.e. Miljka Radisavljevic. For more than half a year, a detailed report by the inspector mentioned above has been on the table with the above-mentioned prosecutor and is likely waiting for the green light from the President of the Republic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Boris Tadic. Excuse me... (President: Come on, finish up. )......................................................................................................... Here is the next time I will subtract this time when I report to the Rules of Procedure, it is well known that the SBPOK and the Special Prosecutor's Office Trninić and Miljko Radisavljevic informed the Minister of Trade and Services Slobodan Milosavljevic of these abuses and there is an official note. My people, these are facts enough to show you what kind of people it is. No, this isn't loud enough. This should be heard by the world. You see how criminals rule this country. You think with the help of these criminals you'll be able to stay in power. They will take you where you deserve, because you allow them to rob and destroy the state of Serbia in this way. I'm sorry I really overstepped my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7686	The word is Mr Ljubomir Kragovic, then Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 226 and requesting notice from the President of the Assembly and from Mr. Minister for Local Self-Government. Namely, to inform you, with the ruling of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica No. 14/08 of 13.10.2008 it was found that he suspended the mandate with 29 October 2008 of the SRS committees SO Leposavic, Dragiša Miletic, Biljana Blažević, Ivana Kovacevic, Ljubisa Milic, Rada Ratkovic, Draga Vukicevic, Miljojko Petrovic, Zorana Kovacevic and Gorana Lesevic, and that they had obtained the conditions for RIK to establish a report on the selection of the boards for the completed parliamentary seats in SO Leposavic, and issued a conviction on the selection of committees in SO Leposavic for candidates from the SRS, and for Jovan Miladinović, Slaviša Milentijevic, Sneza Milivojević, Srboljubovanovic, Dragan Miljojković, Jelen Obradović, Dragišu Komatović, Milović and Jaljić. The Law on Local Elections and Government Conclusions 05 No 013-1340/08-01 since 4 September 2008. I remind you that I have submitted a proposal for the selection of committees to complete the discharge of parliamentary mandates, the ruling of the District Court, the authority for Ljubomir Kragovic to submit the proposal to the RIK, and this is about the mandate of the board, the authority for Dragan Todorovic, and the signed consent on the acceptance of the committee's application to SO Leposavic. Please urgently, without delay, hold the RIK session, place this request on the agenda, establish the above-mentioned report and issue assurances in accordance with the government's stated conclusion, in order for SO Leposavic to continue to operate in accordance with the law. Also, to be able to use the protection of electoral rights, we ask that you make an urgent decision at this request." Namely, what's going on? RIK, on the first proposal, did not want to put it into the agenda, a proposal to issue assurances for new mandates for new committees following the ruling of the Kosovo Mitrovica District Court. The district court's decision in Kosovo Mitrovica is final. She doesn't have the right to appeal. The term of office has ceased one group of committee members. They're supposed to be named new councilmen, and RIK doesn't want to do it. I also ask the President of the Assembly and the Minister for Local Self-Government to initiate that RIK meet as quickly as possible to put this on the agenda and, as it is clear and clear, to issue confidence to the new committees so that SO Leposavic can continue to function. Because in any other case, there is a position in which there is no functioning of local self-government, and only those from the yellow company would benefit from it, because in that case they would introduce temporary measures and place their own people, thus undoing the voter's will in the municipality of Leposavic. That's why I'm proposing and calling again... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and the Minister and President of the Assembly to ask the President of RIK to convene a session at which this formality of the certification of new committees, under the Law on Local Self-Government, would be done and that local self-government in Leposavic could operate according to the law voted in this assembly and that the Law on Local Self-Government is respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7688	Your complaint is already in RIK. We'll be interested in putting her on the agenda. I understand it's the subject of your request. We'll be interested and put on the agenda anyway. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, then Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as resolute minister, you have something to hear today from the MPs of the SRS. It would be good for the minister of justice to hear this, given that the agenda and the set of laws relating to courts, the judiciary, at all the choice of judges, and to see how politicians influence judges to make decisions that are not in accordance with the law. What was symptomatic today, and what made us spend time on this subject? This morning, Tomislav Nikolic told the MPs of the SRS - you lost Zemun. He knows that there is a complaint from the DS board sent to the District Court, but he also knows how the District Court will rule. In the afternoon at Study "B", Mr. Gilas says it will be introduced, as it is his jurisdiction, temporary measures in the municipality of Zemun, because he considers it a violation of the law, pending court's decision. However, if a state allows itself to be traded with mandates, public functions in general, from democracy will become a plutocracy, in which tycoons will rent a government, they can also rent a assembly, courts, and use them to achieve their own ambitions or goals. That, unfortunately, is what is happening today in our political life. What's he testifying about? Witnesses, all that is happening today, about the regime of the executive government, Boris Tadic, who can only influence the courts and newly formed pro-American group Tomislav Nikolic. It sounds sad that lately, under the pressure of Tadic's regime, they are increasingly coming out to meet Tomislav Nikolic, although recently, by applying the law, they have returned kidnapped SRS mandates. Now someone can say what these radicals are stuck with, mandates, and mandates, as if it were the most important thing in the country. We must remind the Serbian public that political prostitution is something that is the greatest monster of a modern society. If they steal their election will, then they're willing to steal everything. Come on, open the vault door for them, they'll steal the money, anything. Today it's like everyone's saying it's in the political business, because that's how, unfortunately, it's become, it's recommended and it's allowed to do everything. All that would be immoral or inadmissible somewhere in another area, in politics it's allowed in shape for some future time, because of our children and similar flossules. With an expensive ad, with a lot of money, you can do whatever you want today, as this group of Tomislav Nikolic now with these 200 million can, like Pink of Big Brother, invest in a commercial, make a pretty watched show, make the goods he can sell. So you invest in wings, you sell them, you invest in TV shows, you sell, you invest in a political party, you sell them. Wing pads, Tomislav Nikolic, that's the same for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7690	National Ambassador Master Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sure you know how you came to power after the five-eyed revolution. You've kidnapped...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7692	Excuse me, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7693	Article 226. It's a sad country, a great struggle for power, and a people getting poorer. You stole everything, and now you want to kidnap, so you yellows from the DS, help your leaders, such as Dusan Petrovic, who is trying to kidnap or bring down power where the SRS is with its coalition partners, whether the DSS or the SPS. I'm going to show you a statement they signed here, and I'm going to hand it over to you, the board of the opposition in the Vladimirs municipality, and it's been certified in court, that it won't attend the session, where in the first run they signed 14, where the session was held and interrupted because there was no quorum. But out of 14 of these two, it went into opposition, where they did the quorum and held the session regularly. But what's going on here now? What's happening here, as you can see, is that in the first place, the former president of the municipality, one of the biggest criminals against whom a criminal report has been filed, he's afraid, because he has to take power in any way, because he knows he has to go to jail. I must say that the district court has been handling certain complaints in Shappac so far and where he has always properly resolved the positive complaints, and I believe that this time too, but in favour of those who are in power and who do not prejudge there to seize mandates, to kidnap the committees, and that is your yellow enterprise, along with these traitors, whose names I can no longer mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7694	National MP Bojan Mladenovic and then Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I am reporting under Articles 225 and 226 to say that the election and verification of the committee that took place on Vozdovac is identical to that of So Zemun. The court has ruled that the mandates have been verified by law. If that was true of the Leader, then it must be true of Zemun. The law must be respected and applied in all municipalities as well. The court is now being pressured to make a completely different decision and even prejudges the court's decision to impose emergency measures on SO Zemun. Can't make one decision about SO Leader, and it's completely different about So Zemun, and it's exactly the same way to verify the council. As it is in one, so must it be in another municipality. By the way, the So Vozdovac session itself was held on Friday, November 14th, with an unprecedented security in the assembly hall. Namely, the president, or table at which the presidency and the pay phone sat, were surrounded by 12 armed persons. Who invited them, on whose orders and why are these security measures, we didn't get the answer we asked the president of the municipality, and I refer the question to the competent authorities? I note that there were only seven opposition council members in the hall and nothing was disturbed, nor was peace threatened and the work of the session itself. For the pay phone, it could only be through the cordon when the president allows, which is seen on the video we own. Terror, impudence, insolence by the president of the municipality of Goran Lukačević was held throughout the session. It's their democracy, it's their Europe. One SRS committee member, Mladen Vodalov, did not sit with the committee group, but in the back lines, separate from us, in a place reserved for citizens. It was separated by members of SNS, Dragan Aleksic, Aleksandar Subotić and others, then an employee in the municipality of Vozdovac, who works as an inspector, member of SPS Popovic and a couple of DS members. They got him to raise his hand for their decisions. He was surrounded by them at the entire session, not allowing him to contact our committee group. That's how the DS, SPS and LDP coalition does it, with the support of the SNS. For months we talked about the connection between Tadic and Nikolic, we talked about it, and here we saw it in action, their connection and their political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7696	Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7697	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Rule 226 I ask a question and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia if the Republic Public Prosecutor is alive? Does anyone know what's wrong with this man? Do we even have a state of the Republic Public Prosecutor? I claim, as well as the distinguished Mrs. Radet, that we don't have it. Perhaps you ministers know, it was some criminal from Kragujevac, this link is Nikolic, Miroljub Tomic, Slobodan Radovanovic, all criminals, as Mr Todorovic says, on one side and connected. Because Mr. Todorovic, as an authorised person on behalf of the SRS, was the only one who could do so, Mr. Markovic, since the District Court in Kragujevac and these six judges I had just read had not made a decision, because these were the judges of laymen and criminals, and not those who respected the law, so he sought the protection of legality, this is October 31st, from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. How long has it been, what's going on, no one's answering, the dots don't apply, kidnapped mandates, joined in Kragujevac. A doctor told me nicely the other day, I really know that, I'll tell you Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who is involved, one of your colleagues from the Clinical Center, and I know he never publicly expressed that it was for Serbian radicals. He met me in the city, he was with his wife, and he said, "Natash, what Tom does, the rites and us and the Kragujevac." I say, first of all, Kragujevac can't embarrass himself without himself being his family and all that he's done all his life, so let it go to his soul and because of that oath at Alexander Nevsky's church in Belgrade first, then at the Nikolai Temple in Zemun. Mr. Markovic, here I am asking you now as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you should know - do we have a Republic Public Prosecutor and, if we do not have him, to whom Mr. Todorovic addressed? Then how is it possible that any conference calls on anyone and that Minister Snezana Malovic gives the criteria for the establishment of the election of prosecutors, judges, all holders of judicial functions? A nice society gathered, says - Montenegrin Supreme Court President Vesna Medenica, deputy state lawyer Dragan Novosel and head of the OSCE legal department in Serbia, Ruth Van Rin, and what they say: these must be honorable and honest people, impartial and respect the Constitution and the law. So where are you going to get a worse kidnapping and robbery than these 10 mandates in Kragujevac? You know, Mr. Markovic, all the lawyers here and the students of law school know that when you start to explain a crime, you have to go from motive to motive. Boris Tadic's motive is to create a spare party in the image of Tomislav Nikolic, which was done by Manter, Wardsworth, so foreign service. First, they recruited that unfortunate Wolf two years ago to work for MI 6, and then they figured out all this and rob the party, take credit for the coup, and kill Dr Vojislav Seselj. They want to do this by trying to weaken the SRS boards, but of course the SRS city board in Kragujevac is extremely strong, determined. He saw through and ignored the intentions of Nikolic and other apostates (President: Time. ) Here, I will end it, you weren't this morning, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, explaining that Tomislav Nikolic was a buttock in the war, but he, as you know very well and all Kragujevci -- has in this illegal so-called parliamentary group of one background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7698	There is a word from MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7699	Ladies and gentlemen, is our state policy full of politics: it's being created outside, and here it is. It is a wave, that's what someone said. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President of the National Assembly, I ask you to send this question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, he proposes to propose to the proposer a set of judicial laws that after the Supreme Court President's statement, Mrs. Vidi Shkero, where the printed and electronic media quoted it when he said - that a third of Serbia is in V.D. the state, and to supplement it and to make sure that Serbia is in full V.D. condition. Ladies and gentlemen, the highest judicial authority has not participated in the preparation of the draft set of laws, says Mrs. Vida Shkero. I suggest you pass on this proposal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw this set of judicial laws because it goes to the lustration of the judiciary and the judiciary is thrown into the political arena. The ruling coalition should elect judges and prosecutors, so it is called that Broz chose judges and prosecutors, and they will now, and it is their turn to choose them as servants. Well, the judiciary can't be a servant. Neither the prosecutor nor the judge can serve any political party, any government. They must be independent, make impartial decisions and adhere to the Constitution and the law, and thus respect the law. A few more sentences I'd like to say. When it comes to Croatia's lawsuit against Serbia, it is necessary to choose the best lawyer to best defend us against this baseless lawsuit and an unfounded claim from the Republic of Croatia. It is Professor Vojislav Seselj, who has proved in the best way possible how national interests should be protected, how Serbia and its people should be protected. The process of Professor Vojislav Seselj enters the history of court practice and many countries in the world introduce this into their case law. You do not have a better lawyer in Serbia than Professor Vojislav Seselj, so I suggest that he represent the indictment against Croatia, which has damaged Serbia and the Serb people to dozens of billion euros, especially the martyrs and sufferers in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7700	National MP Zoran Krasic has a word, and let Jovan Damjanovic be prepared. There's another five or six of you. Here, Mr. Todorovic wants me to remind the public and MPs that we officially have four minutes to work on this point, yes, the SRS. You're the only one left, the rest of you gave up, with a very clear explanation for Mr. Chikiriz, whom we've all supported. That's how I understood. Those four minutes, Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, I don't know when you intend to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7701	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, given that we cannot finish what is important for the citizens of Serbia, and I think that this economic crisis and social misery that is ruling in Serbia and the fact that those who represent themselves as fire leaders fall into some holes and see nothing else, except that they are trying media to say that beauty is desirable, but it is fleeting, I must inform you, and these citizens who are following this transmission, especially citizens who are monitoring the transmission to inform their neighbours, friends and relatives, that they are all transferring to the Second Channel. Tonight you will have the opportunity to hear what is not in the other media and it is the greatest success of parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia - which citizens can hear both questions and answers originally, and to conclude themselves why life is difficult in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, if the media thinks that someone from this pay phone is going to be dealing with the question whether some Nikolic is wearing 500-euro shoes and why he became suspicious when he started showering three times a day, we will not talk about it. We're just persistent and asking the thief to return what he took. (Glory Stajkovic, from the scene: Who is the thief? ) The thief is Boris Tadic, thank you for reminding me. You were looking for your dad, you got Boris Tadic. What can I do to you? Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, I would only warn you of one thing - why it is necessary to build this wall of silence in the National Assembly and not to let everything be given to Shaper, Gilas and other media moguls and tycoons. And to draw attention to the fact that there are two tycoons, a very dangerous reckoning, they announce it, but that is your problem, it is not mine, because I have nothing to do with that gang – I would like to explain to you now some things concerning the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Feel free to invite your neighbors to follow this transmission, remember channel two. I don't know if you're "moving worse", Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, just to draw your attention to the following. The decision read yesterday in The Hague, among other things, states that the court concluded: although the status of the SRJ regarding the UN was uncertain and contradictory from 1992 to 2000, the authorities themselves in Belgrade during those years accepted the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, responsible for BiH, Croatia's lawsuits and filing a lawsuit against NATO countries. When it comes to a lawsuit against the NATO Pact and the NATO Pact countries, it is said - you have no right to protect because you are not a member of the United Nations. I now remind you of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in November 2000, someone from this country has requested that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia be accepted as a new Member State. He hasn't requested a suspension since May 92 when it was suspended. We've been told -- we've been told by the United Nations that there's going to be elections in America, and there's going to be problems, you file a request, we're going to accept you as a new state. Of course, I'll call you back and now I'm taking the opportunity to report back, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia please, all of you watch the Second Channel and watch tonight's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7702	Mr. Damjanović, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to speak to you with some information and some questions. And that we know that the Serbian people have always appreciated and respected the Roma national minority, but individuals in this country are highly discriminated against. I remember two years ago, and many know it here, I was a councilman of the City Assembly. The Roma Council of Belgrade was elected for Roma issues. However, as the only Roma in the city's assembly, by all accounts, I should be on the Roma council for the city of Belgrade. However, I was not wanted to be there, but they gave me to be president of the Commission for Representatives and Proposals of the citizens of Belgrade, where there are about two, two, and a half million. So you can do anything, but when it comes to the Roma and where the donations are, John, you can't. I want to inform this house that it's on the 7th. Four Serbian people have been elected to the World Congress of Roma in the World Congress of Roma. It's a big deal for the Roma community, and I can tell you about our country. It means that we were most selected from Serbia because we made the biggest contribution and we worked most in the World Congress, and that was exactly why we were four chosen. We now have the Council of the Decade of Roma in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the decade is Mr. Bozidar Djelic. Far from that, the Roma have nothing against Djelic, but I wonder now - if Djelic is Roma, why is he against the Roma population, and if it isn't Roma, why is he spreading hatred towards the national minority? Is it dissipating hatred, which is not permitted by the Constitution and by the law of this state, the dissipation of hatred on a national basis is a crime, is it on a racial basis, on a national basis or political basis? No matter how you turn it, it's not allowed. Here is the president of the National Council of Roma of Serbia and the MP, Mr. Mihajlovic, who is present here. He argued - why is John not in the national council for the decade of the Roma, as a man who knows absolutely the situation and the problem of the Roma in this country? He says he's a member of the SRS. I was on the list to get shot, like a Roma and a Serb, and now here in my country they want to discriminate, now put on a wall and shoot me because I'm a member of the SRS. SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj did the most in the era of this country for the Roma people and we must respect that. When DS and other parties do something for the Roma, believe me, with great respect, I will say it here. We will seek admission to Mr. Djelic, the four of us from the World Congress of Roma, if our rights cannot be respected here, we will look elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7704	Will you finish, please? Please, you've been finishing your sentence for about a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7705	I'm sorry. You probably get this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7706	I understand completely, but please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7707	Milosevic gave us television, to understand each other, to make his country easy, and you Democrats shut down our television.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7708	You have no more words. Filip Stojanović has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7709	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226. I also ask the government of the Republic of Serbia for a notice, which is very important and important for the citizens of Serbia, to get acquainted with the extremely difficult situation in the Kosovo-Pomoral district of Kosovo and Metohija. According to the information we have, which is reliable, that around 200 families of Serbian nationality and asylum in the countries of Scandinavia have moved to the area of Kosovo-Pomorava County, in the municipalities of Gjilana, Kosovo Kamenica, Kosovo Vitina and Novo Brdo. Although many fellow MPs think that these people are moving and seeking asylum because of the pressure, no, they are successfully resisting it, but have been forced by great torment and injustice from certain powerful men, such as Dr Milorad Todorovic and a few from G 17 plus, on which several occasions were heard from this pay phone by my colleague Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radete, but in vain. He remains sovereignly ruling these premises, with full support here in Belgrade and there in Pristina, a man of several functions, from the chairman of the Gjilana Municipality of Gjilana, to the director of the Health Centre for the Kosovo-Pomoral District, with more private offices in Kosovo, his private hospital in Ćuprije and more we do not know, so that man knows what he is doing. As things take place, the people will take matters into their own hands and certainly will not allow age and flight to re-emerge, to come for their harbinger. This people live very hard today. I remind you that both Serbs and Albanians are concerned about the vision of their future. They are only hostages to their ruling nomenclatures in Pristina and Belgrade. Therefore, I ask and appeal to everyone not to look at their party interests, but to deal seriously with this problem, to stop this process of eviction in Kosovo and Metohija. Finally, fellow MPs, according to the latest information I received three hours ago, the powerful sultan Dr Milorad Todorovic was arrested yesterday in Vranj. As you can see, the time has come to get in his way, his force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7710	Messenger of the people, Ilic Radish, and let Milorad Buh be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7711	Madam Chairman, what I would like to expose to the Rules of Procedure is necessary here for Minister Markovic sitting in the hallway and, if you are able to call him, to listen to what I have to ask specifically, Minister Markovic. A question for Minister Markovic, who is currently not in the hall, and under Article 226 - I want an explanation on how would the minister explain the classical abuse of the positions of the government and the Rules of Procedure in the work of the Paracino Municipality Assembly? He's in Paracino with DS and there's a total majority there. He's in the coalition with SPS-JS, PUPS, G17 and SPO. On September 29th, the SRS handed over a blank resignation for eight SRS council members. The SO Paracino session was scheduled for Friday 21st November 2008, so 53 days passed and all necessary actions could be done to maintain the administrative and mandated commission and to put the SRS's resignations on the agenda. Yesterday, a session of the Administrative-Mandating Commission boycotted two DS members and a member in front of the SPS, the commission has five members, members from the SPS and the DSS were present. Obviously, it is designed not to include this point in an emergency procedure. Does this look like an open demonstration of the power of power to you, to the open running of the Law on Local Elections, according to which the Rules of Procedure on Labour is in line? The minister could call tomorrow on the head of the municipality of Sasa Paunovic, otherwise from the DS, and ask him why he does not respect the law and does it look like the ruling party to boycott the work of the Board on Administrative and Mandate Affairs. SO Parachin 53 days is unable to put on the agenda the resignations of the SRS board. The worst part is that one resignation and the ringleader defects, believe it or not, got her legs in the middle of the Paracino community. Fortunately, we have confirmation that she was handed over neatly, at the office with the rest of the resignations. Knowing that the Jagodina District Court is making decisions, always at the expense of the SRS, because it pays attention to where the point is placed, the seal, which is the font of the letter, the time outside, whether it is raining or blowing, I can imagine that in this case it will bring an answer to the complaint that the SRS will file on Saturday. Probably now will be the reason why it is not a part of the agenda to question the resignations of the SRS. That way it can go on forever. There's a big stake in that chain of DS. The minister has a mechanism to disprove my claims. Have him call the president of the municipality tomorrow and tell him to respect the law and put it on the agenda by emergency procedure the question of the resignations of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7712	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Articles 225 and 226. I'm asking for an explanation from the Foreign Ministry which is why workers, executives, executives at the Foreign Ministry don't open a website. If they had opened the site, they would have found many letters from the Republika Srpska government in persecution, which informs the Ministry of the brutal violation of international law, human rights of exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. The same ministry does nothing to help the refugee and exiled population in direct communication with the Croatian side. Now I'm going to read to you here the elements on which the Serbian side has the opportunity to do so and end all of those negative tendencies in violating international law and human rights of the refugees and the exiled population. A relationship normalisation agreement was signed between the two countries in 1996. In Article 1 says - foreign Contracting Parties... I invite all these MPs to return to the buffet, there's no point in listening to this... in Article 1, the parties respect each other as independent, sovereign and equal states within their international borders. Look, this country has bent so much, that this government has bent so much that it has accepted Croatia within its borders, it says here, internationally recognised borders. The Croatian state has not existed since 1097, when it trampled the Hungarian state and has no state of its own. There are no elements of statehood. You accepted, you signed this. Furthermore, Article 2 says - each party to the contract will respect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of the other party. Croatia has accepted and recognised an independent Kosovo. This violates the provisions of this agreement. It is bilateral, but the Serbian side has done nothing to end normal relations, as stated here, as it is signed, because these are no longer normal relations. Recognising an independent Kosovo, the provisions of the agreement, which required the Serbian side to break relations, as it did in this case with Montenegro and Macedonia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7714	The word is Milan Avramović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7715	On the basis of Articles 225 and 226. First, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament and the public, i.e. Serbian citizens, that Judges Mirjana Arangelovic, Mirjana Ridjčki and Dusica Marinkovic in 3.10.2008 issued a verdict in which they respected the SRS board's request, explaining that on 23.9.2008, at the office of the Vracar municipality's office, Vračar was informed by the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia, which states that before the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade, they withdrew the blank resignations-authority for the mandate. All of these submissions were forwarded to the Commission for regulations, administration and administrative and management matters, and the fourth session of this commission, scheduled for 30.9.2008, was postponed due to the lack of quorum. Following an assessment of the complaint, a response to the appeal and case files submitted to the court by the Vracar City Municipality Assembly, the Belgrade District Court found that the appeal was established. It says this argument - bearing in mind, as well as the provisions of Articles 46 and 47. The Law on Local Elections, the District Court considers that the appeal of the council members in the Vračar Municipality of Vračar Aleksandr Markovic of Belgrade was established because at a session held on 30.9th of the same year, the Vracar City Municipality Assembly did not decide on the termination of the term of office before the appointed committees were appointed on the basis of the resignations. So now we have the same judges, Mirjana Arangelovic, Mirjana Ridjčki and Dusica Markovic, who, just a month and a half later, in 16.11.2008, reject the appeal of Councilman Ivan Ivankovic from Barajev and say, in a statement - court council - calling for the provisions of Article 46. Law on local elections and article 44. The Rules of Procedure of SO Barajevo concludes that, according to the composition of this council, the appeal by the SRS's board of directors, Ivan Ivankovic of Belgrade, was unfounded, because there was no quorum at the SO Barajevo session, held on 12.11. this year, and there was no report by the administrative-command committee on the reasons for the termination of the term of office. The question now arises what happened within a month and a half when such free court interpretation is made for the same case from different locations and different decisions. Is that, they say here in an explanation, justifiably delayed to decide on an SRS request because the conditions laid down in the said Article 44 were not met. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Barajevo municipality. I ask one question: is it a free court interpretation, will these judges answer in accordance with the law? Will the D.A. react to this? What happened within a month and a half to make these different decisions? What a decision to expect for the next appeal, say, of the Municipality of Rakovica... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in which the Assembly of the Municipality adopted a report by the Administrative-Mandating Commission not to accept the proposal of the SRS board for the return of the mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7716	Mr. Petkovic has a word, then Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7717	Article 226. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow MPs, I expect an explanation and response from the country's resolute government or the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal on several issues. I would ask the question and ask the answer: How many total documents have the prosecution received by Serbian state authorities so far, whether it is the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal or any of the authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I'm also interested in how many documents have so far been given to the defence of Serbian politicians, generals, police and military, however, who have been indicted before the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague? I am still interested in how many total requests for different documents have been sent by the Prosecutor's Office to the Serbian authorities, and how many total documents have the Serbian defendants been requested before the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague? I'm interested in how much the prosecution's total request has been rejected by the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and has any requests been rejected at all? I am particularly interested in how many requests of the defence of Serb indictees, i.e. indictees before the International Court in The Hague, have been rejected? I'm also interested in how long did the prosecution wait for an answer or a document requested by Serbian authorities, and how long did the defence wait? Because, according to my information, several months of defense waiting for a particular document, even at some point that document was no longer valid, nor was it necessary, because it was time to use the document. Please answer these questions, because according to my information, which I do not claim to be correct, there is a huge difference in the number of documents received by the Prosecutor's Office by the Serbian state authorities and documents received by the defence. According to my information, the prosecution has so far received a total or indicative of 1,787 different documents, while the defense has only received eight. Please get answers to questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7718	National MP Zoran Krasic, Mr Kragovic, after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7719	I hope, Mrs. Djukic, that according to the members of 225 and 226, you will order the service to record what I am about to say and forward it to the Prime Minister, and you will choose who is the Prime Minister. The whole dilemma or the need for notice comes down to the fact that someone in this country would finally have to inform us as MPs, and possibly the public or the sure public, what is the extent of the legal path, and what does an individual do when he uses all the means of justice and how do those who are obliged to help him achieve justice walk by the Constitution, walk by law, walk by everything? This has nothing to do with democracy, so there's no need to jump. The question is also raised in front of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what should they do with a growing injustice that is becoming so intolerable, what would a citizen do as an individual? How can he accomplish what belongs to him? Let me remind you, it can refer to all the gangs. If such obvious things show senselessness of the legal path, and I remind you that I have listened to you, I have made full use of all the means to run that legal path. What if a citizen were to do an individual, for whom he was to laud himself in order to achieve the justice that is by nature of things, when he comes across here with unconstitutionalness, illegality, and the most obvious example of injustice. Because of this and such injustice, we have an economic crisis and social misery. If justice can't be done here, if morale isn't respected here, how will morale be respected, ordinary justice is spared by some of these foreign banks? You can accuse me tomorrow, you can say that I've asked the public from the pay phone to immediately take out their savings, because if justice can't be done here, what court will you be saving justice against some bank that he's invested his money with? You know what it's like with bankers, nice, nicked while you're saving money, and when you have to withdraw your money, call the day after tomorrow, wait, we've got some problems, and then one day you'll be informed - excuse me, please, we're broke. Are we here to allow this situation to be with both our country and our people? We broke. You nod, just nod. It's an announcement of the future Parkinson's disease. (President: Time. I don't want to take time away from you, ma'am. Feel free to use your time, just remember one thing: when the right path shows that it is not enough or a citizen feels that using the legal path has become powerless, then don't think too much about that kind of democracy that you represent. Have a good one. Have a good one.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7720	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr Kragovic gave up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, you are, I'm convinced, competent to answer the question why has this law not been passed in Serbia so far? If you are not competent as Minister of State Administration, then you are certainly a member of the DS, given that the DS is for the fourth time a member of the government, of the five governments we have after the five-octobaric changes. I think that those who now insist on adopting this law had no interest so far in adopting the law in Serbia and that a particular area that is trying to regulate this matter was regulated. What this afternoon and afternoon debate characterized was the MPs of the congregation's majority, of course, who spoke of this law, who did not realize how good and affirmative he was, and yet they had a need to say something. Among other things, in their story they related to associations such as the Society of Engineers and Technicians, the Association of Beekeepers and so on, I would say by my nature, the Benign Associations. It seems to me that none of them mentioned associations that are objectively meant to deal with this legislation, which are those malignant associations in principle, the Helsinki Committee, citizens' initiatives, the Open Society Fund, women in black and so on. I think you were the only one in this room who mentioned those associations, and you mentioned them in an indirect way. I'll paraphrase you, you said -- we can finally have insight into the financing of certain NGOs. Mr. Minister, I believe that you have had an insight into who is funding them, that you absolutely knew it, but objectively, despite any good intentions for all of you to act positively in the interest of the state's hands. These are associations and organisations that have ruled Serbia over the past eight years, eight years, as my colleague Martinovic says, calling them -- the years that locusts have eaten in Serbia. These were NGOs that absolutely had the domination and initiative of state authorities, and among other things this law was written by Sonja Licht, Miljenko Dereta and other groups. They, which should be dealt with in principle and in Serbia, destroyed and destroyed the national being, our cultural, political and historical heritage, in one serious way discredited this country, and the state authorities, both in front of domestic or international public. It's gonna take us decades to wash up and get out. Of course, there were also correct organisations and associations that were funded outside and public sector in Serbia or local communities and local self-government and these people, regardless of the fact that money was being received outside, were very correct, respected laws and manners, and written and unwritten rules of this country and this society. What, Mr. Minister, which was also interesting today, as you certainly said, and referring to the controversy with the representative of the parliamentary group, Mr. Sladjan Myaljevic, you mentioned a minority. He pointed out the shortcomings of these laws and you justified it so that because of the minority, we should not deny the right of the majority to be joined, which provides for this law. You see, the debate is under way, Madam President, I'm going to finish quickly, and the debate on the set of judicial laws is under way, in which we all agreed that the minority in relation to the majority has left one very ugly and dirty impression of the justice system in Serbia. It can also be transmitted here. This minority, who is ready for the abuses you have said, will also allow abuses and filth to occur and in this area, which you should cut and deny by this law. I don't think there's enough good regulation in this law. I think he's more liberal than he's supposed to be. In the end, to bring in the story of this law and the position of the association at all, I don't think the law will change anything. Those who were arrogantly and destructively in Serbia, as associations and NGOs, will continue to behave, given that they will be spared and privileged by the state, because they are ideologically and politically acceptable to it, and citizens' associations, such as the association of families kidnapped and killed at KIM... (President: Bring the end. )......................................................................................................... Here I am finishing up, it will certainly continue to be, to say, marginalized, breaking the doors of state institutions to draw attention to themselves, to draw attention to the problems we have on KIM. Thank you, but thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7722	Mr. Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7723	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is, by the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. I would also like to inform the citizens of Serbia who are following the session in these late hours, and inform you of MPs who do not have enough patience to hear, and perhaps you are not interested, judging by the election results, you do not seem interested. The local elections in Vrnjačka Banja were held today. Yesterday, re-election cycles were held in Prepolje. In the re-election in Vrnjačka Banja, of 2,429 voters enrolled in four constituencies, 1,488 citizens came out to vote, which is 61.3%. I thank the citizens who have come out in such a large number and showed great responsibility for the political situation and for the future of the political situation in Vrnjak Banja. In these re-elections, the DS jumped from 25.8% to 33.6% of the votes won. Of course, citizens value the results of work both in parliament and in local self-government. We will lose one term because this new mandate will be won by another political party and the group that participated in these elections, but the gentleman you're throwing at, I have to tell you that the SRS won six votes in four polling stations, that's a pretty good result, because last time you had four votes, and that's a 50% increase. I have to tell you that if someone wants to commit a political suicide, I can't stop it, and the kamikaze squad politically, I really can't tolerate it, I can't stop it, I can't disable it. But those of us who want to work for the benefit of the citizens and for the sake of Serbia, we will do the job for which we have been given the mandate to bring the end, I assure you, and I give the word to the citizens of Serbia. Because we are not really going to deal with you, we will deal with what the problems are on the political scene of Serbia, we will deal with what they left us as problems, but we will solve these problems, and we will energize all obstacles on the way to the EU in Vrnjačka Banja, both in Serbia and Zemun and Kruševec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7724	Mr. Todorovic has a word for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the SRS is concerned, the people's will is God's will. What's important is that the election results are an expression of the people's will, not to be an expression of manipulation, theft or any other action that leads to manipulations coming to a number of votes. We are aware of the facts regarding the elections in these four municipalities and all that you have made available to your reserve party. Look at the minute on TV with the national frequency, look at the minute on local TV, see how much money is invested in this. We have some information that this is about 100,000 euros. The question arises, firstly, where the money comes from, and the second question, to whom it goes in the interest that the part that took the mandates of the SRS, the part that was to carry out the coup in the SRS, has so much support, i.e. huge support from the government. And not only the authorities, but the tycoon. You know how to get space on TV, as you say, you'll make it possible for the team and the team to visit on your television and stay commercials, otherwise if there isn't, there's no commercials, and the commercials are money. It's something that's visible at every turn. You just don't want to say another thing, that the number of votes for the reserve party has been halved in these polling stations where the additional elections have been held, and that shows the trend and trend that will happen throughout Serbia when those who took the mandates of the SRS are concerned. I'll tell you what the point is and why it's like that. Here I will quote the words of a prominent representative, high-ranking official of your coalition, who very precisely state the reasons why this party is acceptable to you. So it's said, "If I analyzed whether he's unacceptable on a political scene, we'd go too far." It doesn't matter who he is, what he is, whether he's a criminal, whether he's a thief, doesn't matter, matters if he's receptive. "However, what is very important to us, which represents the strongest party of Bosniaks, is the fact that Mr Tomislav Nikolic gave up the policies of Vojislav Seselj, the policy of creating "great Serbia", and what is particularly important, that we have contacted SNS and our friends about the DS coalition and give me the right to believe that in the coming period we will be able to build a government that will correspond to the citizens of that municipality." (President: Time. That's what we're trying to tell the citizens of Serbia. You created that backup party, you did everything you could to get so much media space, to be weighed down. Since they've been established to this day, you can't even open a can without some of them jumping out of that can and boasting about the results. That's how you boasted after October 5th, so in 2003 you suffered a defeat, from which you have never recovered before today. This is just a momentary success that will end very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7726	National MP Zoran Krasic, Marina Ragus, and then Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7727	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have to call on Article 27, because there is no other person who would be similar and who could better describe what Mr. Milivojevic did. He called on two members. Those two members say he needs to come out here and ask for a notice or an explanation that he could work as a MP. He didn't ask for any explanation. It's a good thing he said some things, I don't object, I love it when there's a dialogue in the National Assembly, when opinions are involved, there's attitudes. I'm not a supporter of a big cleavage when it comes to a member. But I hope you learned some lessons. If it wasn't you, then Mrs. Comic, and I'm sure Mrs. Hope Kolundzija learned a lesson. His speech had two parts. The first part where he announced some results. We agree, the people decided, every honor, should be congratulated on the citizens, if everything was regular, probably so. That's where we join, Mr. Milivojevic, there's no difference. The will of the people is what they would say to me, a radical, a source and a stream of all power, a people. However, the other part remains unremembered and I am potentialing the second part of his exposure, where here, in the Assembly, in front of MPs and in front of a wide audience, I thank the citizens who followed my instructions and moved on to another channel, he promised, in the name of the DS, that life problems would be solved in the Assembly. Just to remind the public, we've been looking for the agenda for the economic crisis. They wouldn't allow it. We asked for a debate on the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. They wouldn't allow it. We asked for a debate about Eulex. They wouldn't allow it. We have asked for a debate on other far more important issues concerning the economic crisis and social misery. They wouldn't allow it. They had some reason why they wouldn't let that happen. I don't get into your reasons, but any reason you've considered it, it's gone. Why? The failure of KIM, you open the issue of Vojvodina, in a very corrupt and insidious way, destroying democracy and this little tolerance that exists in Serbia. You work very hard on economic issues, so that every week, thousands of people get fired. Mrs Đukic, I call on you as President of the National Assembly, Mrs Comic, as Vice President, Mrs Nada Kolundžija, to hold you to the promise made by Mr Milivojevic, I expect from tomorrow you, by the power of your authority, to act with the two Prime Ministers, to take these points, which Mr Milivojevic has promised the citizens that the Democrats will resolve, to open the debate over it. You know why? I know how you handle it. You solve the problem of employment by firing. (President: Time. ) Just to remind you, one of your presidents said, "We have been importing labour since 2005." You won the import.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7728	Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7729	Ladies and gentlemen, it's exactly 25 to 10 hours and that's how it's going to look, more or less, most of the congregation days in this prestigious home. Mr. Milivojevic, it's an honor to achieve the election results. That's how a responsible, state-of-the-art opposition SRS does it. What we are recognizable for is that we have never falsified the electoral will of citizens and always the first to recognise each winning election results. What you have the opportunity to hear in parliament, and only after Mr Krasic, are truly life-threatening topics, because it seems that we live in a country where children between 18 and the younger population, and up to 25 years old, remember the day of "Resistance", as a resistance to hopelessness, wear T-shirts with a fantastic logo "Kosovo is Serbia", and below "Everything Is Miskovic". That's the Serbia we live in. The saddest thing is he's trying to hide the real truth under the carpet of a political scene. It's not just the Serbian radicals and the SRS. We are not targeted or distanced, nor Serbian Progressives. We are being tested by the government and the ruling majority in Serbia, their behaviour, i.e. your behavior. We are trying here in the institutions of the system, which seem to exist, to resolve the issue of kidnapped mandates and the flagrant termination of the electoral will. The ruling majority tells us that the choice, in fact, was not, that we do not need the election. That's the point. What we have the opportunity to hear, because we do not have the opportunity, as Serbian radicals, as exiled from the media space, to respond in a qualified way, is that we are obstructing and that parliament is only there to pass laws, which is the basic school ignorance of the mandate and of Parliament's jurisdiction and what is unexpected to say by the president of the parliamentary group, therefore the ruling majority, which we had the opportunity to hear last night as part of the national television show. Mr. Milivojevic, we haven't had a chance to respond qualifiedly to that. I'm saying this for the public who's following, because of the campaign that's being run in the traffic media. We're doing what you used to do as an opposition party. We fight only for the right, for the rule of law in this country. Finally, by the third minute, to expose the entire story of the state project and the Western mentor project, it is the SAA, thus recognising Kosovo's independence by voting the SAA and signing the SAA with 19 members who have recognised Kosovo's independence. The next phase is the Eulex, thus recognising Marty Ahtisaari's plan and finally Ischinger, the establishment of good neighbourly relations between divided Kosovo. That's all true. (President: Time. I'm done. Thank you for your tolerance. The state project and the Western project hit the SRS, hit the DSS and all those who stood up and exposed the classical plan of occupation over Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7730	Mr. Milivoevich, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7731	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will no longer argue with you. I'm reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Ms. Ragush, if you're already in favour of the rule of law, next time at least advertise which breach of the Rules of Procedure you want. You didn't really listen carefully, no, you didn't say. Look at the stenogram if you don't believe me. You have done one wonderful thing, unlike your president, and you and Mr Krasic, at least have the strength to admit defeat and not blame anyone else and to congratulate the citizens, while others here blame the citizens, blame some other political parties for manipulation, but do not object to an election result in Vranjska Banja. We want to change Serbia for the better. Those who want to change the people and change the people, and participate in a political suicide project, a broad field, can do so as much as they please. We are in this House today discussing the law on NGOs. If you continue this way, carefully implement this law. It can be applied to you from the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7732	Mr. Todorovic, then Krasic, then Ragus. You're going to replica, then you're at the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. First of all, I'd like the previous speaker to read what law is being discussed here. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, to explain to your colleagues from the same party what law you have proposed in the procedure, at least because of the citizens of Serbia to get true information. Come on, Mr. Milivoevich, let me thank you for your defense and your wishes when it comes to the SRS, let's take a look at some things, if possible, more realistic. It's just that everything that's going on here in this Vranjska Banja, where you've achieved fantastic results, I don't know how much you've won a councilman, you've won as much as you've won, and that's all right. These committees sign contracts, sign irrevocable resignations, go to SO and all of a sudden, because Vranjska Banja has an extremely powerful typhoon or tycoon, Mr. Minister, you know who it's about, start lobbing slowly, talk to your committees, buy a iron, another laptop or two laptops, so someone's car, etc. After a while you look at when it's session SO that your committees don't vote according to your policy, with your ideas, with ideology. They're going to push for big Serbia and you're all disgusted, as it's possible that one representative of the yellow company suddenly turned the turkey upside down and voted for big Serbia. You go and you say, gentlemen, you can't do that. You've been selected on the list for Europe, not for big Serbia. You resign, but they say, turkey dots don't apply, typhoon paid, solved the chamois, took the councilmen, and there's nothing from Europe. You're going after big Serbia. That's what this is all about, Mr. Milivojevic, about stealing the mandate, about stealing the electoral will of Serbian citizens. We ask that question. Thanks to the SRS, you had the opportunity in the September elections in 2000 to achieve election results, because it enabled you to do so, otherwise you would still be blowing a whistle here in the Terrace.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7734	Mr. Krasic, then Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7735	You know, when the ideologist DS Mr. Milivojevic shows up, it always seems inspiring. I appreciate that, though, Hope whispered to him, but it doesn't matter. That coalition works. I don't have that problem. Absolutely no such problem exists. Mr. Milivojevic, if a party were to commit political suicide, and if it were for you, a competitive political party, then you would never say that, that you were afraid that the party would commit political suicide, but somewhere in a corner they'd rub their hands and say, "Great, it's done business, they'd disappear themselves, almost. I think the situation is a little different. I didn't answer because I was trying to convince you. I have no intention of wasting my time. I don't want to convince you of these things. I just came out to score and to make a point. Mr Milivojevic has confirmed second time what is most important for Serbian citizens. He, as an ideologist of the DS, is guaranteed to find agenda points here, debate on the economic situation, debate on the social situation of citizens, debate on whether all citizens should run to banks to raise their money or to carry on savings. The debate on how much budget spending should be reduced. The debate over what Todorovic managed to force you to do, however, had to keep reading here every day for several months as much as on the boards of some salaries, and you have now made a decision to cut it. You could've reduced that half a year ago when he read it, maybe a year and something. I'm very grateful here. The point of all this is, the ideologist DS, the man whose orders are being followed by Miki Rakic, his countryman Vukadinovic, this national security, what arrests and listening etc., Boris Tadic, Miki Rakic, Nada Kolundžija, Mrs Comićka, and for God's sake Mrs Djukic and you, that's the gromada, please, she promised, Serbian citizens, the DS finally came to her senses. She'll put life issues on the agenda. Let's see, please, as soon as you have an emergency procedure, you have our signatures for it all. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: They also have emergency assistance for some. We'll support you all, let's get started on the debate. Get out of those petty jokes. We had one stunt master at our place, we got rid of him at last, he cheated on us in a row. Let him stay with you. He's been away. Please, tomorrow you can schedule a new session with the agenda which this ideologist, the gromada political, look, it's a force, promised. When he promised the citizens, he promised the citizens, set the assembly on fire, promised the citizens.... Mr. Krassic, time. ) Here, just, promised to the citizens, beat Milanovic. He promised the citizens, set the RTS on fire, promised the citizens, the NATO Pact is here. Everything he has promised has been fulfilled. Now I've brought you to this situation that you've promised citizens, economies, social welfare. Please put it on the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7736	Mrs. Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yes, I advocate, Mr Milivojevic, for the rule of law, because we felt what madness meant on October 5th. God forbid it ever happens again. However, every day we are denied, every day in this country Serbia is actually denied those basic postulates of democracy. I think you've completely misunderstood my words. I have congratulated you on your election victory, but you shouldn't take that as a defeat for those people sitting on this right. What's above all here is very important, I only hope that you will endure, the entire ruling majority, in what you said. We irritate you in the last month and a half by calling on the members of 225 and 226 because the ruling majority threw out life, social and economic issues, turned their heads aside and lived in parallel reality. You are trying to explain to the people in Serbia that they live in a country where basic rights are respected, where basic rights and certain freedoms are guaranteed. What the SRS, to cut short, because patience is gone, and it is too late, promising from now on, is that we will really speak in the language of human rights and preserve basic human values, that is what we promise you and those are entirely my words in the previous announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-19-0.u7738	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude a principled search after we have exhausted the list of MPs, or all MPs who have been declared by word. I would just like to say that the law that the minister has proposed with so much quality has improved the legislative activity of this house, but we will be able to, of course, discuss laws in particular in the coming days, including this law. I thank Mr. Minister, his associates, all of you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
