ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that Mrs. President should have first informed us of the reasons why she has delayed the session for this long term, to inform us of what happened in the meantime and whether the conditions for the continuation of this session, or this extraordinary session, have been achieved. This session was suspended due to the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. Three days didn't know he was arrested. His family, his defenders, didn't know that. You stole all his papers, searched, hung around, turned around in The Hague. The curse of the people of Serbia will fall upon you, and it will be greater. You betrayed a man who sacrificed himself for the Serbian people and was betrayed by the very mother of Serbia that he loved most in the world. Then we had a registered meeting, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, where we protested everything bad, unconstitutional, illegal, inhuman and unworthy that is happening in Serbia, against the introduction of dictatorship, the arrest and extradition of Radovan Karadzic. The police have not determined that there are reasons not to approve the meeting. We reported a meeting and a walk in Belgrade. Then there was a scenario that I never wanted in your life, with a planned assassination on the SRS, for all its officials, for all the citizens who came to protest that day. Why? You killed a man, you beat up a lot of people, just because we're Serbs. If we had one Albanian flag, if we had introduced ourselves as members of any other people, you wouldn't have touched us. You have beaten us, humiliated our dignity, endangered Serbia's security to the level of civil war. And if we were led by the stupid ones who led you on October 5th, we wouldn't have a session of the National Assembly right now. Ranko Panic, a participant in our meeting, was killed macholy. You've been shooting hard, with the intention of killing MP Borissav Pelevic. You beat up the MP Dusan Maric badly. You beat up almost all SRS officials, illegal means and in an unauthorized way, and you don't care. You worry whether there will be obstructions in the work of the National Assembly or not. You don't care that under your hat, with your voice in the tasters, the police are killing people on the street. Are you predicting and seducing such democracy? What's that? No one is allowed to raise their voice against you? No one can say a word? No one can walk the streets of Belgrade? Why didn't you tell us a walk wasn't allowed? What was that scenario, ladies and gentlemen, that the police two hours of fighting with 100 of their members, masked! He's holding some kind of conflict, waiting for radicals to leave the rally, and then brutally smash us in five minutes, using all the funds, especially the unauthorized ones. Now ask your colleague Pelevic what they told him at VMA. Was it an attempted murder or not? Ask Mr. Rank Panic's mother if she finds it difficult that her son died in Serbia and has not died in five years of war in Krajina. At least ask one of your neighbors what this, with your consent, is happening in Serbia. And you want a regular session of the National Assembly?- I'm sorry. He wants Mr Djelic, after eight years, to promise us prosperity if we enter the European Union. Are you going to kill us to enter the European Union? Does your accession agreement say that all people who think differently from you will be banned, that you won't let us walk down the street, that you're going to kill our children and fathers?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1537	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1538	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I thought that in you who make some sort of ruling majority there was reason and that in this month you would be in front of Serbian citizens. What do you owe them? To tell who ordered it and who directly carried out everything that happened on the streets of Belgrade. Who ordered you to throw tear gas at the head of the SRS column? Who ordered you to fire rubber ammunition, and its use is approved under the same conditions under which the use of firearms was granted? So, that cop from the automatic rifle could have fired, he had it approved. Who ordered this, who gave consent, and who is the direct perpetrator? I want to know what this gendarme is for, to beat up citizens in the streets, or to protect Serbia from something? Are Boris Tadic and his function so valuable that we will no longer have a say in the matter against him, that you will kill those who plead against Boris Tadic in the ballot box? How long? Where are you going? What kind of coalition did you make? Will you keep it that way, Mr. Socialists? First day of the ministry, the police kill a man. Is that part of the government? Who's responsible for this? Who ordered you? Who orders the police? Is there an unknown government? Where's the Prime Minister here to tell us what's going on? Why did the government say two days after all this – the police did it by law? Well, is it legal for the police to kill a man? You'll see, we've made a movie out of those footage that the cameramen were allowed to give us, because no one can give us the footage, that it's brutal, terrible, that it has at least ten minutes of scary scenes. Can you believe a police officer who guards the people is good if he hits 15 times with a stick of a man lying on the street? It is seen there, as if we came to conquer part of Serbia's territory, as if we were about to secede Kosovo and Metohija. That's how we imagine the police intervention when they start kidnapping Kosovo and Metohija, so the police can use all the funds. When they say it is not a good government, Boris Tadic, police use all the funds. Is that what the Constitution says? What about human lives? What about dignity? What about democracy? After 18 years of multiparty systems, we have scenes that were only in communism. No one is going to use you abroad, only the citizens of Serbia will be eager to think about what is ahead of them. That's why the paper is full of stories of employment 300, 500 people. Just vote for Tadic and make this one permanent Deputy Prime Minister, there'll be employment, there'll be everything. You don't want to vote? We're gonna kick your ass. What do you expect from us now? Let's wrap our heads up, wait till you beat us again? Wait for who to kill again? Why didn't you stand up for a minute of silence to honor the man the police killed? The autopsy lasted, the report waited a long time, because someone was putting pressure on the doctors. Well done. They wrote what was the cause of death - a police boot, ladies and gentlemen MPs, and you want the agenda. He won't be here today. By the way you imagined it, it might be in the future, but here someone needs to spray on you who beat and kill and say, yes, it happened and that, we apologize to the family, we apologize to the citizens, he's responsible, he ordered that one, he approved that one, he did that one and that one. A few million of us can't be scared when we're walking down the street if a cop got a warrant to kill or walk by us peacefully. I will not live in such a country, and I will do everything in my power to ensure that Serbia is not such a country, that you do not make it so. If we have to, we'll lose our heads, just don't kill the innocent. Don't be the ones who came just to be there together. Don't have mothers with children in your arms, not old men and old women! You'll see footage, beat up people from 70 and 80 who are standing in the front door, have nowhere to go. It was a black day for Serbia, but you can't let it get a little light. So I'm telling you, we're looking for the Prime Minister today, a statement from the government. Without it, the session you invited these European gentlemen to is gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1539	The word is Mr. Aligrudic. In line with the SRS' request that the interior minister make notifications on the topic discussed by Mr Nikolic, this note came in writing to the heads of the parliamentary groups. Given that yesterday, a representative of the SRS, in a meeting with the heads of parliament's groups, made such a request, has already been divided today. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1540	I quote Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "The President of the National Assembly shall perform the tasks provided for in the Constitution, chair the meetings of the National Assembly, take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, care for the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, do other tasks foreseen by law and this Rules of Procedure." In Article 98. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the session of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured." That's in point one. Paragraph 2 states: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations and obtain an opinion." In doing so, interpret this attitude 2 in a way that this break can be determined infinitely and without any goal, simply not possible. Paragraph 3 states: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases if the National Assembly concludes it. "The President of the National Assembly will inform the MPs of the continuation of the session." Madam President, you, of course, have injured Rule 27 and Rule 98 of this Rules of Procedure, because this is the continuation of that same session, which you interrupted about six weeks ago for no reason whatsoever. There is no foothold in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for what you have done, and you have done so to then create a picture of the opposition in Parliament, my God, blocking the work of the National Assembly, not allowing it to be done on the agenda points. You remember and we all know very well that you interrupted the session at the moment when no hand of the SRS MP was raised to look for a word in the Rules of Procedure. There were several hands of DSS MPs, because we insisted that we hear the answer, then or some other day, to the question why the ambassadors of our country are returning to EU countries, which is why such a decision was made. Of course, it didn't occur to us to obstruct the work of the National Assembly and of course it didn't occur to us to talk about it all day. Some questions simply must be asked, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, challenge them with your behavior. There's never been this tension in the last three or four years. There's never been any such wrinkled mistakes or tension you're causing. We have recently heard from the head of the SRS' Parliamentary Group, who spoke of an unkind event, about people who died in demonstrations that the political party organised. We haven't had such cases in the past few years, although there has been a rally in Serbia. Why does it have to be now? What's all this about? We need to have an answer to that question. The government that exists now, the government that's now made has one terrible deficit. The government has no electoral will of citizens behind it, at least not most of those citizens who voted in the previous elections, because the papacy was made, and you all know it very well, and that is how this government started. So this government will continue to work, with less and less support, you are well aware of that. There are simply questions that must be discussed in this people’s congregation, because they are important. A group of 108 MPs have applied for the Assembly to be announced by revoking the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and by making a clear statement about Eulex. That's the key question right now. Mrs. Lindl, spokesperson for Eulexa, said loud and clear on August 22nd to all Serbian citizens what the organisation serves. It serves to implement Kosovo's constitution and follow-up laws, which have been passed unilaterally following Ahtisaari's plan, which Serbia has rejected. Guys, it's a crucial moment, it's a break-in moment. You are deaf about this, the obligation of Article 106. The constitution to schedule an emergency session. I understand that the ruling coalition, neither of us as political foreigners, when we were in the ruling coalitions, did not agree, nor was it appropriate to adopt the agenda at the request of the opposition and vote in the resolutions. We didn't expect it from you, but we expected that when you saw the text of the resolution we submitted, it served as some kind of alarm, to invite us to sit down and agree and then find a solution for the Serbian Parliament to react. You ignored it, and then you went from mistake to mistake, you misjudged the session, you misread the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, you violated the Constitution, you made a circus outside of Parliament. Remember only the way authorities were formed in Serbia's municipalities and cities, especially in the city of Belgrade. It's not a problem with the fraud of the citizens you've committed, it's undeniable, the problem is how you did it, the problem is the method, and it's all going after each other. You arrest the war crimes indictee in front of the UN tribunal, and then there's a circus, a million things that the newspapers deal with, where his laptop is, what's happening to it, where he comes from, when he's arrested, when he's arrested, when he's taken in other things. After that, there was a rally and there was already talk about the rally. You here have not, as I have heard, been faced with even one single explicit request to resign any minister, but you have been faced with a request to speak of these matters and to take questions asked to answer. It's, I guess, some kind of minimum. As far as the DSS is concerned, I end up, I am aware that I have double timed, we have no intention of obstructing Parliament's work. Our MPs will report, a few more of them, to repeat or add something to what I said, for the sake of the public, that the opposition could not have been guilty at any time, especially the DSS, of any so-called. the blockade of Parliament, because it suits you. You wanted to establish the City Assembly in August, you wanted peace over the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. It was the only reason, but it should be said publicly, it's very important to hear. We'll only do it to that end. Certainly, we respect the request of our colleagues from the SRS who are set before you, we find it logical and reasonable, so steer yourself accordingly. As a ruling coalition, it is your responsibility for this congregation to function normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1541	I set a break using Article 98(2), and we agreed on the length of the break at the meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1542	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid we all need to find an answer to the problem we didn't create together. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I'm sure you won't personally experience my criticism, but the moment you sat down as President of the Republic of Parliament, you took responsibility for the functioning of this institution. Politics cannot be personal when decisions are made, but when liability is determined, it must be personal. We consulted yesterday about continuing to work on this session. You, as President of Parliament, have come to those consultations without any proposal. The ruling coalition had no proposal. The opposition, each in its own way, came up with concrete suggestions. The SRS said under what conditions it would agree to discuss the proposed agenda points. We said we wanted to change the agenda and discuss only the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because there are deadlines that bind us to such a thing, and we all asked you all together to do everything to ensure this necessary minimum for the continuation of the session. There is nothing in common between the policy of the SRS and the LDP, but what obliges us at this time to act in this way is a relationship to responsibility for what happened in this society. You, along with me, were in the house during the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. At that moment, the Serbian Parliament was working, the session was not interrupted. When Slobodan Milosevic was arrested, a press conference was held where the public was familiar with all the details of the arrest. Thirty minutes after the extradition to The Hague tribunal, the Prime Minister gave a statement and said -- we delivered former SRJ President to The Hague tribunal. There was an organized demonstration where a man was killed, the police responded. If we want to go to Europe, this is Mr. Djelic, and we will support him in it, then we cannot turn our head from the fact that one man is dead and that this Belgrade knows which way it is destroyed. Someone's responsible for that. If Mr Nikolic is responsible for this, let him answer, if Mr Todorovic is responsible, let him answer, if Mr Pelevic is responsible, if Mrs Radet is responsible, because of her statements, let her answer, but what you have sent to me, Madam President, this is humiliating. Nine rows of answers to such a big question, and three rows of function to one who answers. First, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Interior Minister, three rows of office, and nine rows saying a task force was formed, so the task force will take over, so who knows when the task force will tell us something. We want an answer right now – is the organiser of these political gatherings at which violence was committed, or is the police responsible who overstepped official powers? This country must have a government that works. If you are unable to ensure the functioning of Parliament, resign. If the police minister doesn't know after two months what happened, let him resign, let us choose another. This is not how the Serbian Parliament can be run. Tomorrow our president is in Brussels, our prime minister in Brussels, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government in Brussels, Foreign Minister in Brussels. What do they represent there? What message do they come from Serbia with? This is how Serbia cannot change. We asked you to make the most of it. I don't know if you did it or not, but you didn't tell us anything about it. Why didn't the government come forward? Why didn't we have any new consultations during the morning? We cannot agree to the way in which our policy is implemented by the SRS, but for the state in which Parliament is located you are responsible, first of all, you. A clumsyly called session, a clumsyly defined agenda, avoiding putting a resolution on Kosovo 108 MPs on the agenda, putting a government resolution for which there is no support, putting in the process of some laws on which no previous agreement has been reached, the silly constitution of the City Assembly, the arrest of Radovan Karadzic in a way that is devastating for the country. If he's arrested, then he'll know who arrested him and why he was arrested. Let's not play hide-and-seek, so we don't get the first statement from the police minister by saying the police didn't arrest Radovan Karadzic. What does that mean? It is too many mistakes that this assembly could work normally and therefore we expect you to take personal responsibility, unless there are institutions ready to do anything to unblock Parliament's work. You're threatening to apply the Rules of Procedure. Let's apply this Rules of Procedure as planned and bring here the Prime Minister and the Police Minister to account for Parliament and allow for the normal work of the Assembly. No party in the assembly would have started a debate in Parliament and ignored that her sympathiser had died at the demonstrations she organised. They can't even do radicals. Let him know this unfortunate man's family why he died. Is it because he threatened someone's life? Is it because someone overstepped his powers, whether because he was deceived and brought to demonstrations where someone wanted incidents, but he can't keep his mouth shut anymore. Once there's a clear answer to that problem, they'll never die in demonstrations again. The last time was in August or July, before that in February. No one has responded to that, and our tragic history is too long to allow it to go beyond that. So, the deblockation of Parliament implies a capable power that can enable this institution to function. You didn't make it possible, and this is devastating and offensive. I don't know if you've been told by your coalition friends, but that's how we feel. Three lines of signature, nine lines of response with no essence. Do something, first of all, to which you are bound by the function you are in, while you are in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1543	Thank you. The word is John Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1544	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 226. Already several MPs persistently insist that we get an answer to the question why the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been interrupted. In these little over a month, we have a continuous replacement of thesis. Instead of a clear answer, we are receiving permanent attacks on the opposition as the culprit of the obstruction of Parliament's work, and that the public of Serbia has not heard any real reasons why the work of the Assembly was interrupted. Several important events happened in the meantime without this parliament having the opportunity to react to them, although in many other cases, when these important events were, the consensus reached and the events reacted. We are witnesses, and the public of Serbia should know that the current government is slowly preparing the public for the acceptance and legalisation of EULEX in the KIM area. We had a statement by Serbia's prime minister that Serbia would accept the reconfiguration of the international mission in Kosovo, although the resolution, in December 2007, is explicit, with the support of the entire parliament, said that Serbia could never accept the mission that is the instrument of Ahtisaari's plan to determine and promote Kosovo's independence. Now, at the beginning of the work of this assembly, we are witnessing that the first question, which has always been in front of this assembly, the question of territorial integrity and KIM, by the government's decision, is placed as the final point. For us, Kosovo and Metohija were always the first points when we exercised power in this country, and you now have the final point. It is really important, Madam President, to hear why the Assembly in August, when such big events are being prepared, had no opportunity to react and why an atmosphere was created in this high house that could not reach a consensus on this important issue, although we are witnessing that the previous years have been a consensus on the most important state issues. What happened in political parties and in the political public to share Serbia's top political goal? You must answer the question why Kosovo and Metohija are the last points of this agenda. Why have we come to the situation to solve this point and this problem as the last, when the government in Serbia, meanwhile, agrees with the anti-legal mission and slowly accepts Kosovo's independence quietly? That has to be the first point. I call on you to respond to the 108 MPs' proposal and immediately open this discussion, because it will be too late when the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the decisions and policies of this government bring us before the final act, when there will be no return.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1545	Replica, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I've been mentioned, and I've received this letter myself from Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who you probably didn't all get, I want to read it to you so you know what it is. So, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic told us that on the occasion of a request submitted by the representatives of the SRS, she requested special information from the MUP and today provided us with a notice: "Dear Presidents, I would like to inform you that an eight-member working group has been formed under my orders in the Serbian Ministry of the Republic of Serbia to determine all the circumstances under which the incidents occurred and the injuries of citizens and police during the public meeting of the SRS held in Belgrade on 29 July 2008. Also, I would like to remind you that I have repeatedly stated that the police had a warrant not to use force, except in cases of an attack on her. Therefore, all cases of possible overstepping of police powers will be the most strictly sanctioned, without exception. After the work of this task force has been completed, a detailed report will be drawn up to be submitted to the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to all MPs, as well as to all competent state authorities and the public." That's the answer we got from the MUP. First of all, there were no incidents and no injuries, there were murders. What kind of eight-member task force, when the government came out with a statement the next day and said the police were acting according to the law? The government said the police had the right to kill Ranko Panic, because the police acted according to the law. It is not worth an eight-member task force at the ministry, according to the Police Act, he was supposed to have a report on the table the next day, on his official duty, and on his own to look for an additional one. What kind of defense and security committee, when you block all committees in the assembly? You do not allow the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee to be held, your majority do not attend the Committee sessions. Or you'd come to a committee meeting with a prepared response from the Defence and Security Committee and vote for it. Tell Mr. Home Secretary, if he didn't find out, a man was killed, killed by a police boot, a gendarme. Like July 7th, when Zikica Jovanovic-Spanac killed two Krajina gendarmes, they took revenge today, so they killed a Krajina Serb after 60 and a few years. The Serbs are killing Serbs again. For what? Because of the government. Only Ranko Panic didn't participate in destroying power. Even his mother said yesterday -- not so much because of the SRS, but because of Radovan Karadzic. He wanted to show his presence that he didn't agree with the extradition. The minister should know, as soon as the public prosecutor takes over the case, his responsibilities cease. Where's that DA now? How many days has it been known that a man has been killed? Is anyone in Serbia running a legal official investigation into the event, or will the Assembly lead the investigation? Come on, we'll take her today. We will describe the entire assembly to you and how the minister said not to use force against those who beat the police, but to use force towards radicals when they start walking. Let's see if the Director of Police has approved the use of firearms, whether the minister was in agreement with that use, whether or not the Prime Minister knows anything about it, whether or not the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly. Mrs. Djukic, as much as you don't put us in your group, we're your colleagues. Let me remind you, while Slobodan Milosevic led Serbia, the cordons prevented these from going, but he was yelled for a dictator because they didn't hit anyone. The cordons prevented protesters and citizens from going where they wanted to go, which was an illegal act, but they didn't beat you, even when you humiliated them. Don't nod, you'll get a cold, you'll get a draft. You come to life from the DS when you're told about the cordons. They didn't kill you when they kept you from moving the streets of Belgrade. The minister was from the same political party as the minister today. Today you showed us how you imagine human life, which by the Constitution is incomparable. Just make a noise and wash your conscience. If every time I go out for a pay phone, it's okay for you to feel a little relaxed, here you go, relax to your will, yell and grumble, but I'm telling you, you're all responsible, and you have kids, and you don't have kids yet. You're thinking about those kids. What are you preparing in Serbia? Will your children have the same rights as other people's children? Are we at least going to be equal in death? Will any of you say, "Aman, people, the police have indeed killed a man?" Well, what if it's our police, let's find out who killed the man, or do you think killings can go unpunished? They can, when they kill mobsters and make amends for money, and when they kill the police, they have to determine who killed them. And I command the gendarmes: ye are well-trained, taught to kill, guard yourselves when the radicals come to power. You're killing us now, and we're gonna tear you apart and kick your ass. A thousand euros in wages are not paid to kill people on the street, but to protect Serbia. Serbia has an elite unit, of which you have made villains, because I can't imagine that policeman aiming six metres away at Pelevic. I can't even imagine a cop throwing tear gas at me, to tell you the truth. Let's see what I did that day to get tear gas on me. Who ordered to aim at me and throw tear gas? Did I do some kind of work that makes you use chemical resources? This is a new tear gas, the socialists invented a new one. The one you've been shot at has only caused tears, and this one knocks on the floor and the police come in and beat you right now, he uses the bat in an unauthorized way. You have men here who have dealt with martial arts. Police use a stick to kill people, not for blows in places where it's legal, but for savage beatings. I don't care what every cop on the street thinks about me today, let's be ashamed of him, anyone who's been involved in that "SRS" thing, and I'm on the streets by myself day and night, and I'm driving the streets by myself. I'm available to your police, but don't complain to me at night, after, at what kind of villains they do, but let them rebel. Don't complain to me, you socialists, that you can't butt out, but beat your butts, stand up. A year or two without a parliamentary term, then you'll be heroes. If you're holding this mandate to the murders of people, think carefully. Is that your interest? This one will go to Paris as soon as this agony is over. He sells his house on Santa and goes to Paris, buys two in Paris for that house he owns on Santa. Where are you going? Where will you go when we see each other in the congregation in a year or two? Carry the burden, carry the burden on your back. Come on, anyone with a load on their backs, get him down now. Come on, we'll say what we're guilty of, what Mr. Jovanovic said, it's really our fault that we think differently from you, except it's not a criminal act yet, except it's still not forbidden. It is prohibited in countries where America has established its power, but in Serbia it is not yet prohibited to set up an assembly and present your opinion on it. If it's not enough for you what I'm telling you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to realize that today this can only go on like this, in this tone, then I don't know how much it takes on your brain to influence you to realize that something needs to be done. There's something to be done here, this isn't enough, this isn't enough for children. We need the responsibility and the names of the people. What's so hard, people? You know every cop. The police were supposed to report that she was shooting the rally, she was shooting it without reporting it. You know everything, and you know where those Nishs were, where they were from Krushevac, you know everything. You know who killed the man. He's just a cop, so you can't know. Well, you must know. Without it, there is no National Assembly. We are not interested in obstructions of the National Assembly, if it were, we would have applied for a vote of no confidence to the Government, it must be held in this session, so we would have kept one interpretation until the end of the session, and that is for these months, and you would certainly not have worked. But it's not our desire to keep you from working, it's our desire to fix what you're doing, if it can't, and if it can't, we'll wait our days. This is a perfectly normal and reasonable wish, a wish that needs to guide you, that your neighbors don't tell you that your children don't tell you – is it, Dad, is it Mom, are you really involved, did they really kill cops? Is that our power, "yellow," democratic, socialist, that or her, is that our authority and how many more people we're going to kill and when we're going to kill Uncle Tom? You may have instilled such hatred for all of us, I don't know. We teach our children to love, not to hate you. We've been through a lot, someone's reacting, and someone's not responding. We're talking to you here normally, and we shouldn't be talking after this. A man I didn't even know could have been killed by a man who was very close to me. Then how am I supposed to talk to you? You, almost, as if it were nice, somehow I don't see it on you, at least someone to raise a hand and say, really, let's give the government two or three more days to go out with the data in public. A month! I suggested this break and I think, people, in a month we'll know everything. We come today as if we had continued a month ago. Your wish is for the media to say we are obstructing, Serbian Radio-Television and that of your messenger, "Blic". Well, let them say it. We didn't make a big emergency at the Assembly Hall, we were obstructing. So what, is that a shame? No, it's no shame to obstruct when you have dictatorial and tyrantic authority. You think carefully about whether it leads to democracy or dictatorship. We can go with you to democracy. We won't go to dictatorship. We're not going to put up with it, and the dictators are only hanging out as long as they're alive and you know it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1547	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, believing that we, the People's MPs of the Serbian Parliament, have been offended, injured, humiliated in the last month, because there has been an extremely large campaign that we are holding back the development of Serbia, that we are stopping democratic processes, that we are holding back entry into Europe, and we have nothing to do with it. I'd like to remind you of the day the assembly was interrupted. Part of New Serbia's MPs and part of the opposition MPs waited to get their cards. We couldn't even get into the O.R., they told us - there's no session. We didn't even get to sign in, and the session was off. Why she was interrupted, we didn't know. We talked to each other, of course, and you who knew, kept quiet, to just send us home, to get us out of this room, not to look at us, to do some dirty work. Meanwhile, there's been a series of problems that you need to answer today. The arrest of Radovan Karadzic, how, who arrests and in what way, from some documents in the channel after 15 days? Are we a banana state or a serious state? There is a protest event, where I have participated and watched with stage everything that happens and, of course, peaceful citizens applaud, listen, everything has been within the limits of decency, in the most democratic way, as it has always been, and suddenly, there is a crowd from Macedonia, the chaos begins. Who caused the chaos? None of the people present have responded, no one has given any cause for such a thing, and what we've heard about here arises. Someone's got to file a report, let the public know. We are looking for democratic Serbia. We do not stop the development of Serbia, we want these contracts to be adopted and ratified. I know best, 90% of the contract I made, and the studies, and I applied for those credit lines and the funds received. For a year, I asked the former president of Parliament to put it on the agenda and he didn't put it on the agenda. Does anyone prefer to ratify the Gas Agreement than I do? I'm a signer of that agreement. Please do not insult us, demean us, go out to the media, and speak. Behold, they are holding back the work. We want economically strong Serbia, we want to work, work, build, but we don't want to lie in Serbia and we don't want someone to keep five million Serbian citizens in line, promise them action and there's nothing out of it today. We won't let that happen, we won't let anyone sign a "Fiita" contract for half a year, every seven days -- promotions, and promotions of a letter of intent, promotion of pre-contractions, promotions... So, guys, can you sign that contract? What's the problem? You promised contracts with Mercedes, Folkswagen, 200,000 jobs, you promised it, it wasn't me. Come on, do something, do something, do something, but we want democratic Serbia and we've been fighting for democracy our whole lives. We don't want a dictatorial Serbia, we don't want Serbia's fear, we don't, if someone comes out to protest, we think they'll come home. They have the right to protest those who lie to the government, who lie to certain ministers, we will always go out to protest, we protested when it was most difficult and no one will stop us and stop us. We want you to account to the people, to know what is done in Serbia and who is responsible for what. You took power, you have responsibility. A man was killed, an MP was injured, a messenger was shot. Explain who did it, how. Nothing's scary. Someone must have ordered it, if that one didn't get a warrant, answer it. It's a simple thing. We will continue the work of Parliament. We are not for obstruction, we are for work and we want work, but we also want democratic Serbia. We want local authorities respected, we want the electoral will of citizens, both in Belgrade, and in all cities across Serbia. The people voted that way, so be it. We don't want blackmail, we don't want to end up in all sorts of ways of electoral will that the people have put their trust in some people. Therefore, you may have associates in us, but you must be responsible, correct, and cooperate with us. And, of course, you can't lie to us. We have had great experience in this House since 1990, we have been sitting here. Many governments, prime ministers, MPs, etc., have passed, and we want Serbia to take a legal path, to make an account, to act responsibly, and not to accuse someone who has nothing to do with it. Repeat, session is not scheduled for six weeks. What, are we supposed to come to a session that no one has scheduled and continue the work of Parliament? You want to introduce us now some code of conduct, how to behave, where to sit, what to talk about, how to move down the street. It's nowhere to be found, not even in the largest dictatorial countries. Therefore, the MP represents a people and you must respect him, respect him. Of course, we will respect the government, but the government must keep its promises. You must come here in the strongest form, not bring some clerks there to sit here, to waste time with them. For such a serious subject, the prime minister must appear. Whether the prime minister here is Mladjan Dinkic or Cvetkovic, it is not clear to me at all. I read every day – Dinkic said - the concession, brought by this parliament, was lifted by the governments, was all over. There were two funerals yesterday at the Ibari Master's. How are you not ashamed to lift the concession on the road where there are 27,000 cars a day, where technically no traffic can take place, where every day someone dies? You'll find funds from the budget. You did the rebalancing, how much you gave -- 400 million dinars for a bypass around Belgrade. It's a mile away. Where will you find the funds and should we die daily in central Serbia, Šumadia, western Serbia? Do we need a freeway? You can't make it? Let them make those who can. Shut down the concession? The whole world's building highways with concessions. You're making some kind of advice, devalued ministries, ministers, government, Prime Minister. How can the first violin be Dinkic in the Council and the resolution minister – a member, prime minister – be a member of the Council? What exactly is this about? We're not gonna let that happen. You let Dinkic do whatever he wants, we don't care, but we won't. This is where he has to come, to account for this people. I repeat, five million citizens were taking action, enrolling people day and night, and what is it now? You're giving action for something that hasn't entered the privatisation process. Share Telecom. Who taught you that? Where it can be deceived and deceived by the people of the ministerial office. Therefore, please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, be serious. Don't be insecure, because you have a serious opposition on the other side, a very serious and organized opposition. Therefore, the mind in your head and you work in accordance with the law, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, if you think you can make something out of this Serbia. If he can't, goodbye, leave, there are those who can.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1549	The word is Mr. Borislav Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I will use one piece of time to quote several members of the Constitution and the Law on the Police, so I ask you not to count that time at which time it is scheduled. Article 23, which speaks of human rights and freedoms, reads: "People's dignity is uncut and all are obliged to respect and protect him." Article 24: "Right to life: Human life is incomparable. ''Article 25: ''The physical and psychological integrity is unhurtful. No one can be exposed to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment. 'Article 46. The Serbian Constitution – Freedom of opinion and expression, reads: "The freedom of opinion and expression is guaranteed, as well as the freedom to speak, write, painting or otherwise seek, receive and spread information and ideas." The law on police adopted in 2005, published in the 'The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia', Article 85 – The use of the means of coercion against the group of persons, reads: 'The authorised official has been authorised to issue an order to the group of persons to dissipate if the group is illegally gathered, is being misbehaved and can cause violence. If the groups do not diverge, only the following means can be used: 1st physical force, 2nd official bat, 3rd special vehicles, 4th official dogs, 5th official horses, 6th jet-water disposal devices, 7th chemical means. The funds referred to in Article 2 may only be used under the orders of the Chief of Police, or a police officer, to whom the Chief of Staff has power'. There's no mention of firearms anywhere and no mention of rubber bullets. Next, the official bat, Article 89: "Breaks with an official stick are not applied in the head area, neck, spine, chest, abdominal wall, genitalia and joints, except as a final measure." Special types of weapons and explosives, Article 99: "Decision on the use of specific types of weapons", means rubber bullet and explosive means, "Manager of the Police, with the consent of the Minister". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday at a meeting of representatives of parliamentary groups, as an authorised representative of the SRS, I requested that the government, or the Ministry of Police, be announced by today's session, with a report on who ordered and who committed the murder and beating up of MPs and protesters. What we have received, thanks to the intervention of the President of the Assembly, is humiliating for all MPs and for all citizens of Serbia. This is offensive and ridiculous. You know very well when working groups are organized, when the object is to be put out of force, on the side, and to forget it. It was a time of communism. This is, as you say, the time of European integration. You're not going anywhere in the world, in any European or world country, to find such an example, that a man in the 21st century is killed on demonstrations without anyone answering for it. Even the discrepancy media that controls the government hasn't announced that the man is in the hospital, that he's in a coma. No one has announced the wounded of the MPs, except for a few sheets that are, unfortunately, low-sighted and progeny, who really want to objectively show things. An SRS sympathiser, Ranko Panic, was killed. People's MP Dusan Maric was injured, beaten. I had an attempted murder, which was confirmed by all the lawyers in one daily newspaper, "The Voice of the Public", several of Belgrade's most visible lawyers. Also, the certificate was obtained both at the VMA and at the Clinical Center. High SRS officials Aleksandar Vukic, Dragan Todorovic, Koquez and many other peaceful protesters were injured and beaten. We were defending the police from the hooligans. We were separated. Then we were killed, and then we were beaten, we who separated their hooligans, which they brought to their buses, and ordered them to attack the police with 'fantoms', so the police would have reason to attack peaceful protesters and prevent a peaceful walk towards RTS. We called, especially Tomislav Nikolic, during the rally to avoid incidents, to be peaceful protests and to prove that we are different from those who beat up, who steal, who kill and who rob. I'm not here to whine or complain, I got two bullets in the war to free the Krajina, on the Velebit Mountain, I became 80% disabled, but this bullet, this rubber bullet, this Serbian bullet hurts me more than those two Ustasha bullets that made me disabled. This is that rubber bullet that's forbidden, gentlemen. It's forbidden to use against protesters everywhere in the world, even by the law we've passed here, we, the MPs. Why hasn't the secretary of police been answering for over a month? Why did the government only report on the first day, saying that everything was done by law and how effectively the police acted? Here we are, 78 war criminals, 78 protesters, killing us all, so solve the problem. Because I am saying this not for myself, but for the sake of the public of Serbia, that the citizens know what is waiting for them, that this never happens to anyone again, not even to you Democrats, not even to you from the ruling coalition, far away, so that no one else happens to the MPs, but to the citizens. That's why I'm talking about it, not complaining about my condition. I, unfortunately, became disabled again, got one pine between my eyebrows, which remains forever, and two above my forehead, but now I look a little stricter, so my students will be more afraid of me. A bit of a joke isn't for waste, but a brain injury isn't for fun. Permanent headaches, constant vomiting, with fear that it will remain forever, even as far as headaches are concerned. It's the opinion of a VMA neurosurgeon, but it's no big deal. It'll be terrible if it happens again. We can't get past this from the petticoat to the late Rank Panic, out of respect for his family. We're just looking for minimum minimums, just to say who ordered it, and you know who ordered it, because it says it in the Police Act; they don't write names, but they write functions, I read them – the police director and the police minister. If they couldn't put at least those units in these shameful nine ranks, what were they doing for a month and a half? You know exactly who the unit was, who the commander was, and you know exactly who was responsible by law for something like that. So we're looking for it, and we can't go over it, so it won't happen in the future, so next time there won't be any more dead, so there won't be any more injured MPs and citizens, just that's why we're looking. Indeed, we don't want to obstruct the National Assembly, there's even a law that we're going to support in our heart, the Gas Agreement with Russia, but we can't go over some things, we can't go over what happened at completely peaceful demonstrations. Remember, you've been doing demonstrations, too. When a Hague indictee was scheduled to go to The Hague, General Sreten Lukic, you organised a demonstration and no one was killed. In 2003, the government ruled a demonstration. Then why don't we have the right to make demonstrations and protests when our sympathiser, our man, the real Serb, who loved Serbia and the Serbian people most, is arrested? That right is guaranteed by the Constitution, I just read it. So I'm telling you that we're staying with ourselves, and we're really going to do everything we can to figure this out first, so that we can move on to the adoption of the law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1551	The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by art. I'm looking for an explanation for why I was brutally beaten at the SRS rally on July 29th in downtown Belgrade. I was beaten in a corner between Makedonska and Kolarce's street, in the moments I tried, along with other SRS officials, to prevent the clash between the police and the protesters. In particular, in that part of Macedonia's street, a group of four or five protesters I didn't know raced towards the police cordon and tried to shoot them; one held a broken glass bottle in their hand, the other held a piece of concrete. Along with another protester I didn't know, we convinced these people not to throw that bottle and that piece of concrete, we pushed with them. Right after that, one of the cops tried to hit me. I turned to him and said, "Man, why do you want to beat me?" You see I'm trying to calm the situation down. After that, I showed a journalistic and then an MP's ID. I just turned around, it didn't take ten seconds, they echoed the screams -- come on, come on, come on, which, I guess, encouraged themselves, jumped at me, got one big hit with a stick on my neck, the other on my shoulder. The blows were so strong, I fell on the asphalt. When I fell on the asphalt, I got another shot with a bat on the right side of my head and two kicks with a foot in the cross. At the Emergency Center, they found, I brought medical results, the following injuries: head injury, darkening, back contusion, cross-hematomas on the neck, multiple hematomas on the shoulder, bloody injuries to both arms. One of the doctors told me that the blow to the neck that I got with the bat could have been fatal if it was only one centimeter higher. I'm getting circumstances. I've had a spinal cord injury before. Since then, more than a month has passed, no one from the police, no one from the state authorities found fit to call me and ask me what happened and what condition I'm in. In this country, we are constantly listening from representatives of the regime, from representatives of the government, representatives of the police, that no one can touch the press. When someone, even on the phone, threatens one of the journalists who supports Boris Tadic, who supports the so-called. European integration, which is supported by The Hague tribunal, the same day a terrible shit rises, immediately in the evening police directors bring to an informative conversation at the "Polygraph", a court is requested to be terminated. Now a journalist has been beaten up, along with it, by circumstances, and by the MP, and by no means at all. No one cares about that except the SRS and the Justice daily. What does that mean? This means, in practice, that we in Serbia have two types of journalists, we have journalists who support the current regime, who support The Hague tribunal, who support an NGO headed by Natas Kandic, Sonja Biserko, and they are protected by law, no one should look at them in the face, should threaten them. We have another kind of journalist, which everyone can beat, regardless, even though, by circumstances, they are MPs. It is one face of a freak democracy built in Serbia for several months by political successors Slobodan Milosevic and Zoran Djindjic. In the end, I'll say one more thing. I spent four years on the battlefield. For two and a half years, I led a reconnaissance-diversant unit of Republika Srpska's army, from action to action. In July 1993, we captured about 900 enemy soldiers in one way or another. I give you my word, no soldier of mine has ever struck a captured enemy soldier, let alone struck him. They're all exchanged. Fifteen years after that, I experienced, as a national MP, getting beat up in downtown Belgrade. In the end, all I'm going to say is this information, I think it's important because of the picture that's spreading about the SRS. In the reconnaissance unit that captured Croatian soldiers, who did not beat them, they were mostly members of the SRS, and I am really proud of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1553	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Let me inform you that a session of the Administrative Board will be held at the break, at the Blue Salon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1554	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, on July 29th, at a rally of freedom for Serbia, when Serbia rose up, not only because of its national pride and dignity, which this Serbian youth also has, as some call it, a new Serbian youth, young men and girls who were not even in diapers, did not walk when Professor Seselj defended Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska Krajina, Serb Chetniks, when Dr Radovan Karadzic created Republika Srpska, but raised Serbia, and among them, by the regimes killed Ranko Panic from Mladenvac. You should shut up, Bozidar Djelic, and listen to what I'm saying, because you're 45 years old, and you killed a man who was 41 years old, who fought at 23 years old, who was wounded by a Ustasha and who was 41 years old, with his wife and mother, who you and your regime turned black, wanted to get home while you were stealing and kidnapping every day. That's why you need to be expelled by the chairman and be silent and listen, you thieves and criminals, killing honest and honest people on the streets of Belgrade...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1555	Please use decent terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1556	On that day, when the patriotic Serbia rose and when these young people, their fathers and mothers came and cried out in favour of not giving Dr. Radovan Karadzic, that Dr. Vojislav Seselj continued to fight bravely and resolutely with the villains, that they had killed Slobodan Milosevic and 13 Serbs in The Hague Kazamat, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, in the end, when he came out and when the ovations welcomed him by a crowd of over 30,000 people, because it was one of the largest all-serb rallys held in the Square of the Republic, said that something strange was happening from the direction of the Macedonian street and that we were going to make sure that RTS heard the word of people gathered in so many numbers that day, if there were millions in Serbia and all Serbian countries that are against the delivery of Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic. At that moment, when he said we were coming there, going to see what was going on, that we were going to go in front of the RTS building, on purpose, everything was carefully and carefully planned by dictator Boris Tadic, police, police, police clubs and gendarme killers, as his extended hand, set out on us, on peaceful participants together, just because Toma Nikolic said – we are coming there. Because people demonstrated and cried out against the treasonous regime and said Boris Tadic was drinking Serbian blood and that he was a tyrant and dictator whom no one would suffer anymore, but they were calm and waved barjaks with the image of Dr Karadzic, Prof. Seselja and Serbian flags appeared, with SRS flags at the rally. What did you want to do with it, or did you think we were going to lynch Tianic in the RTS building? We are not villains and villains like some who did this to Mr Milanovic, and you, gentlemen of the SPS, forgot your party friend after October 5th, and Mr Komrakov, who told you well, knows everything about you and taxed you with what you did, who you were with. We wanted, as we did, and every day that resistance against the betrayal and sale of Serbia is growing, to raise Serbia to its feet. I thought today, coming to this session, that you would at least repent, as Christians, as Serbs, to work in you, not in you 'yellows', because your former president said – to whom it is moral, let him go to church, but to you others, at least a crumb, a shred of conscience and to say – we must, however, turn around and see what years we have behind us. Well, that's how our president was killed, so it was continued with the policy of betrayal and sales. Why should we take part in this? No, you, with agreement and participation in all this, in this conspiracy against ordinary Serbian people, against a decent man like Rajko Panic, wanted to demonstrate force, to show that you are a real tyrant, that you don't need democracy at all, you don't need this session of the National Assembly, to save at that moment, as you thought, the director of a television that turns into a monster. Because while we're just following Mr Nikolic's exposure, we're getting the news – imagine, there's a tone in the First and Second Program. What, we don't have to order from here to the Serbian public and citizens of Serbia, which are the largest number of you, millions of Serbs, accusing you of selling, betraying and robbing, what do we think and how do we continue the assembly to do?- I'm sorry. When a colleague of the Verica Radeta, in the first days and sales and issuances by Boris Tadic and your treasonous regime, repeated only what has been repeated in Serbia, trees and stones have fallen upon her over the centuries. All the bulliment from domestic and foreign media every day just talked about it. Someone here dared to say it, I think it's Cedomir Jovanovic, but what he knows about the Serbian curse, to say -- because of what Verica Radeta ordered. I'm going to tell you today that the Serbian curse never goes out of date and that through history, and I guess you learned something in elementary and high school, I guess you know some of the cycles, especially the Kosovo cycle, you've also heard lectures from a newer history, such as the 1951 event, of which the Serbian Orthodox Church also warns, from the village of Kistanje in Republika Srpska Krajina. Unfortunately, a Chinese woman's curse has arrived. I must tell you that because of the betrayal and sale of Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic, Boris Tadic, hated by every decent and honest Serb, must know that today, because we Serbian radicals have our sacred oath and we are always ready... And you, a young colleague from Kragujevac, really don't know anything, except to send those few, I don't know how many there were, 13 of your activists outside the crowded city hall of Shumadi, when we held the promotion of the book of Prof. A shekel. Despite Mrs. Kolundzija, 1,500 people came to the promotion of the book "The Murder of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic". Then came a group organized by this unfortunate one to cry out, we are the Zorans. What's our fault that you're the Zorans? We're the Shessels and we're proud of it. We're the Radovans and we're proud of it. And you, who don't actually belong anywhere, no one can tell you anything. You don't know that every day a curse will come, so I don't address you, but every Serbian radical who would ever think that in any way communicates with a traitor and with a plague of human being, such as Boris Tadic, let the seeds be destroyed, let the sun never warm him up, let him not see the light day, because Boris Tadic, as the greatest evil in the state, deserves no honorable man, and such are all Serbian radicals, never communicate with him. Let anyone who thinks of it come to God's punishment, as I said, centuries have shown, which never goes out of date. Lived by Dr Vojislav Seselj, lived by Dr Radovan Karadzic, freedom for Serbia under such a treasonous regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1557	Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, may I remind you that she is a session, which has been so abruptly interrupted, has run normally, of course, with the invitation to the Rules of Procedure of the SRS, and we will always call upon the Rules of Procedure when you break it. The second day of the meeting was the chairman, i.e. the president of the Assembly, at 9.30 p.m., at consultations, how do you normally say you from the ruling coalition, or in your opinion, as SRS MPs have determined, and then interrupted the session, although before that we were convinced that the points of the agenda were so important, it is so necessary to adopt them, because Serbia will stop. It's been a month and a half ever since. During the month and a half, you needed to arrest Radovan Karadzic, introduce EULEX to Kosovo, finish some more dirty work, and then continue to work on the agenda, with those points of the agenda that were so urgent that Serbia would stop unless these laws were passed. Of course, you used that month and a half as much as possible. On August 5th, I received a telegram informing me, as a MP, that the session would continue on September 2nd. On the turtle if you had put the paper, Madam Chairman, if you had just turned it towards Batajnica, in that month and a half would have arrived. In the Rules of Procedure, article 84 says -- the president of the National Assembly convenes the National Assembly a week before the meeting, sends agendas and calls for a session, but let's leave it at that. So in this month and a half, you've done so much damage to Serbia that now the session can't continue on the agenda until the previous issues, which I refer to the Prime Minister, the president of Serbia, unfortunately for Serbia, are all three in key positions. First, who arrested Radovan Karadzic, because Ivica Dacic said - the police did not. If the police aren't, then it's not a gendarme, because the gendarmes are falling under the MUP, neither is the BIA, because the BIA is required to inform the minister at that time – Mr. Minister, we brought that face in, is here and there, and the interrogations are being conducted. Then who arrests it in Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? If he hadn't returned on February 11, 2003, when over a hundred Sasovci were in Batajnica, your officers helped them, when they were to kidnap Professor Vojislav Seselj and take him to The Hague, sorry, February 12th, because the 11th was unearthed so-called. An indictment written by these semi-literate professors from law school. That's why it is. There's been a curse. That's when over 100 Sasovaks were in Batajnica. Are some foreign intelligence agencies and foreign agents going after Serbia again? Serbian citizens, you are not sure that when you make a mistake, the police of the Republic of Serbia will arrest you, and when you do something wrong, you will be arrested by foreigners. Who held Radovan Karadzic for three days and where did he keep him? Did it take those three days for those five million dollars to get the chieftain to whom Radovan Karadzic was being blackmailed? To remind citizens of Serbia, Radovan Karadzic, Slobodan Milosevic, Ratko Mladic, have been blackmailed into five million dollars each, and the US government pays them that. I know that on June 25th or 26th, before the delivery of Slobodan Milosevic, a senior official, one of the top yellow company, went to the American Embassy with his hands in his pockets and returned with a suitcase full of money; he failed to spend it. About who killed Ranko Panic, the police minister will have to send us nine orders not to form a commission to investigate and, eventually, determine the situation, but to sit here before the Assembly moves on to the agenda and to say by whose order, by whose authority, who ordered, who killed Ranko Panic, who shot MP Boris Pelevic. Who allowed that to literally kill people on the street? Who beat not only the People's Messenger Dusan Maric, who beat up Mr. Alexander Vukic, who beat up a few dozen MPs present at the rally? Who in Bezistan, at 15.40, shared money with the head of the protesters? It is known, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that in Bezistan, they are split together by the leaders of those groups that were yours, the people who were changed and who were tasked with providing beer and other needs for the protesters, to raise the protesters, so that they could do so. Finally, what Ivica Dacic sent to the president of the National Assembly, and the president of the National Assembly to the heads of parliamentary groups, to form a working group and to determine and then to inform us, these are stories from Broz's time. When you don't want to do something, then form a task force. I'd like to ask Mr. Milivojevic, if he has anything to say, to come out, to say, not to throw it out of place. Now that you've thrown it, Mr. Milivoevich, let me ask you, something's going down on you, what was your name, what was it in Georgia, or what was your name? Let me remind you, you sent five men to Belarus, one of them came back to you. Are those four still raising the revolution there? That boss of yours, he's here, by the way, an MP, says, "We'll take over Fidel Castro." If I may say, because of this code of conduct, I'd say-- an idiot doesn't know Fidel Castro resigned two years ago. In the end, to help the minister. Here are the main culprits for the murder of Ranko Panic, here are the main culprits for beating up the MPs, here are the main culprits for all the riots in Serbia. They go to prison, then democracy will come to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1559	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1560	I would like, at first, to ask Mr. Aleksandar Tijanic, given that today's session is very interesting and that, among other things, we are asking that the Government of the Republic of Serbia tell us who kidnapped and where they held Radovan Karadzic, to allow Mr. Karadzic to follow this parliament's session in The Hague, because we have been informed by many people, several of us received messages from abroad, that a few minutes ago satellite transmission of this session has been lifted. This is a request, I expect an understanding, Mr. Tianic. The people of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, we are talking today, that is, asking the question, a whole month has been talked about how someone is obstructing Parliament's work. What we are doing today, we Serbian radicals, is not obstruction, this is the real work of real people's representatives, serious and responsible people, what Serbian radicals are. Who's obstructing Parliament? Of course, Boris Tadic. Boris Tadic, the bastard, who is also responsible for the death of Ranko Panic, as Mr Markovic just showed, and for what happened on the day of the SRS rally. Look at this picture of police officers batting and boots, democratically, beating peaceful citizens of Serbia. The dictator Tadic is responsible for everything. I remind you, let's go back a little bit, that's the man who hit a quiet man in Guca a few years ago, because he said, "Ua Tadic." It's the man who got the whole mess up when, remember, Rottweller tried to kill him in Belgrade. That's the man whose security beat up a peaceful citizen in Grocko, who didn't give him his hand, because he said, "What is this thief doing next to you?" And the thief was Dragan Gilas. That's Boris Tadic, that's the son of a bitch who destroys everything that's being destroyed in Serbia. The worst president since Serbia. The man who will sell, and it is already clear to all, and parts of Serbia. It seems to me, unfortunately, that he has already finished with Kosovo and Metohija, now it is Vojvodina's turn; the new Statute of Vojvodina, the constitution, as they will call it, already who knows it, or they know it. So, Boris Tadic needs to know that he's going to be cursed and cursed, so now you re-engage Radovanovic, what he imagined to be a state prosecutor, which is, you remember, that criminal from Kragujevac, because the criminal affairs in the Kragujevci prosecutor's office recommended him to you, "yellow" fairies, to appoint him here as the perpetrator of his duties. His term of office is long gone. Gentlemen, Serbia doesn't have a Public Prosecutor. You don't have the guts to put him here on the agenda, talk about all his affairs and tell you why he can't be a state prosecutor. This state prosecutor, instead of dealing with what we're talking about today, is saying he's asking the police to know who killed Ranko Panic, who arranged to beat up peaceful citizens, MPs, SRS officials, who did all this, he's dealing with whether Verica Radeta broke the law because she reminded Boris Tadic of a curse that has always followed Serb traitors throughout history. I don't know if he'll have any fun with the curses that Boris Tadic and Ivica Dacic were told by his father, Jova Djog, who was told by Uncle Rank Panic, who was said by his mother, Ranko Panic? Yesterday I spoke to this woman, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandra Vukic and Milan Terzic, who will be a lawyer for the Panic family. And yesterday she repeated, they write today's newspaper, she was also with journalists – they had no dream, neither Tadic nor Dacic until they came to ask me for forgiveness. The tears of Mother Rank Panic will arrive, gentlemen, all who have participated in his murder in any way. Ranko Panic was his mother's only child. She has no husband, no daughter, no son, no grandchild, her door is closed permanently by Boris Tadic's black handle. It cannot go without a curse, which has always been followed by Serbian traitors, I repeat. As far as we believe it, I say, first of all, to all Serbian citizens, to hear us and to know that we and the Serbian radicals say -- damned every radical, cursed by kin and childbirth, who ever met with Boris Tadic after his shameful delivery of Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal and after the murder of Ranko Panic. Dear fellow MPs, when I spoke in my own time, all of us SRS MPs, all of us radicals, when we spoke publicly of our President Vojislav Seselj's departure to The Hague being held by mob Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, you "yellow" were arlaucals from the assembly benches, screaming. When Carla del Ponte confirmed it was true, you covered your ears and kept quiet. I am now ordering Boris Tadic, Ivica Dacic, Vuk Draskovic, Mladjan Dinkic, that Vukcevic and his Bruno Vekaric, if they do anything now that Serge Brammertz comes to them, because we know that they, together with American, English and French intelligence services, are working on the search, or the appeal council, to make a decision to force a lawyer on Vojislav Seselj, which means that if they participate, we Serbian radicals will never forget them and God will never forgive them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1561	The word has Gordana Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1562	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear colleagues, I would first of all like to address the President of the Assembly and give my own assessment of what she has been doing and what statements she has made in public, in order to disinformation the public. It's, of course, my assessment, and I leave it to everyone on their conscience to assess how anybody works. I'm the only one here who has the opportunity to say it publicly, and every day I hear from the citizens what they think about it. For one magazine, on August 30th, Madam President said -- if we had tried to work, the whole August would have been turned into political outsmart rather than into work on important laws, which is why a break in Parliament's work was needed. It's, first of all, a notorious lie and that's you, Madam President, you know. You know why you interrupted the session, but even if so, I must warn you that it is our job. We are here to outwit ourselves politically and by the way, of course, make laws, or, through laws, we are politically outwitted. When I spoke of you at the time of your election, that's exactly what I was talking about, believing you were no match for that place, because you don't understand the meaning of democracy and the meaning of parliamentaryism. All that has happened in the meantime is partly your responsibility. I ask you, did you, as president of the Assembly, protect the dignity of the National Assembly, the dignity of the MP, did you do anything as president of the Assembly, asking any state authority or officials to explain what happened to your fellow Members of Parliament? How can they be beaten, and you can have security, nothing can happen to you? Did we, as a political party, announce our meeting as an organizer? Have we done everything the law requires? We did. What was the duty of those to whom the assembly was reported? To secure this gathering, first of all, for those of us who participate in the meeting as politicians, officials, as MPs. Of course, the order and peace of the citizens who have come. There were members of the SRS, and sympathisers, patriots who opposed such extradition and, in general, the extradition of Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal. It was clear to all of us what was going on, it was clear to everyone in half that there was a scenario. We know very well. Be careful, since March 27, 1941, the English Intelligence Service has been doing what it wants in this country, and today it is the only thing nobody will say out loud. Some mercenaries, some group showed up on Macedonian Street and the police were supposed to separate that group, according to the rules of service, from the mass that stood still, because people came with small children to participate in the rally. Police pushed a bunch of hooligans towards the crowd and at the moment that Tomislav Nikolic was to speak at the rally and speak to the public, it was a sign that police should do what she was ordered to do, and she was ordered to beat or arrest at least 15-20 MPs, SRS officials. This happened. The murder of Ranko Panic took place and none of you here from the parliamentary majority today find it appropriate to come out and say anything about it, which means you approve of such police actions. Who in this country feels safe after the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, after that demining? I believe no one. So anyone can kidnap you, anyone can hold you for about three days, five days, ten days, you don't know who, or today, after a month and a half, knows who it was, and you lose every lead. The trail wasn't lost here, because it was supposed to charge 5 million euros, but it could happen to you, who knows for what reasons. It can happen to your children for a variety of reasons, to our children. I take care of my children, and I don't care about myself. That's why citizens, when they meet us on the street, and ask what kind of state we live in, why we pay taxes, why we pay that police if they have to behave the way they behave. Instead of protecting us and being in a function of preserving order and peace, she kills, she hurts. We know what the primary task force was. Dacic is just a small fish, apparently, the perpetrator of Tadic. The goal and the message was - don't hold any more of these rallys, there will be another arrest of the Hague indictees, you must not gather, folks, don't answer the SRS's calls. This time we killed one, hurt the other, beat the third, who knows how many people were beaten, didn't ask for medical help. Never again, when you're invited out, or we'll kill five, ten, fifteen, twenty. If this doesn't clear up now, if we don't find out who did it, if no one answers, whoever issued a warrant for such behavior, it will, believe me, happen, maybe at our rally, maybe on yours, on anyone's account, this evil that hit us. Boris Tadic is a man who is not only contagious and ugly, but who causes disgust in every normal man because of this disgrace of the Serbian people, not only in the state, but also outside the country. So much ignorance, so much ignorance of the basic bonton, wherever it is found, believe me, it's embarrassing for every normal man. That's why I won't warn you, the MP majority. Yours is to decide what you're going to do, who you're going to support, who's going to be your party president, who's going to be in this position, who's going to be in that position, but all those who are in the SRS, who are half a million of us, I must warn, precisely because of the mother of Ranko Panic who died, because of her colleagues who are injured. By some miracle, I was lucky to slip, so small, I guess they couldn't see me and hit me, and get out of that crowd, but it could have happened to me, and to every one of us who was there, we all were. So I want, not as a narrator, but as a believing man, because we believe in God and believe in God's justice, to remind once again all my radicals, half a million of them, especially those who have sworn here and who are sitting in Parliament, to be cursed and born to anyone who has ever met Boris Tadic after the delivery of Radovan Karadzic and who has spoken to him, now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1563	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1564	President-in-Office, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as referred to in Article 226. The information that is important to us, the New Serbia MPs, and I mean the good part of the citizens who are watching this television broadcast right now. We expect you to answer us immediately, not a difficult question, you will hear. These days, in the media and in the press, I heard, or read your statements from your party, condemning a simple and stupid minister who announces the termination of television broadcasts. The minister has no other business than to shut down the TV feed. With respect to what you said, yesterday I was at consultations, deeply respecting what you said about a democratic activity related to television transmissions, I want you to respond to both the public and all the citizens of Serbia who watch this television broadcast whether this right of citizens to inform, in particular, to watch this transmission, is slowly breaking? Do some military services interfere with television transmissions, so that when some MPs, on occasion, heads of parliamentary parties, parliamentary groups, speak, public service speakers, the Public Media Service, are heard in a row? A television subscription for this public media service, I would like to warn from this payoff, and citizens who voted in favour of the parties making up the ruling coalition, and it seems to me that they are mostly paying and citizens who support this second part of Parliament, therefore, the opposition parties. That's why I'm asking you, I don't know if you've been informed, if anyone can answer us that it's not Mila Stil who's working again at RTS, that she's not working again, or if I don't know who? Is it by chance that when Mr Nikolic and Mr Velimir Ilic spoke, a colleague behind our backs says – there were only two minutes? I said, when Boris Tadic speaks, he does it for two, three, five minutes, I'll protest the same thing then. So if this television broadcast is paid through a television subscription, if the day of the session costs so much, I want you to answer us right now, and you can say that you didn't know about it, and what you're going to do. Is it possible in 2008 that someone in this way is trying to suppress the public word from this pay phone and what MPs have to say, and, in turn, the head of the NS Parliament Group Velimir Ilic, who was, I think, will agree, very correct, moderate and tolerated and said that we do not want obstruction? If this is happening in television, then you have to answer if you want to, whether I should believe that obstruction wants a ruling coalition, because it can't live up to pre-election promises. Is that maybe a public service? Is he more powerful than the government, than the ruling coalition? So, most politely, with deep respect, I ask you to answer us immediately why this is done. Has it been 10 years? Did we, as we see happening on the streets of Belgrade, stay where we were 15 years ago? So, on behalf of the NS MPs, and also on behalf of a lot of citizens who have called us in the last hour, I think there have been over 200 calls, and I'm asking you to answer if this is an accident, whether you're familiar with it and whether we should go out 10 more times so that someone doesn't match us. I don't know if he's talking about horse racing right now at the same time I'm talking. So please answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1565	Mr. Markicevic, I'm going to ask RTS for information about the disturbances that occurred during this session, and, as you can see, I'm sitting here, I've been informed of you MPs, I believe that. In the break, I'm going to ask for an opinion, or information from RTS. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1566	Reporting under Article 104. I believe the Rules of Procedure have been harshly violated by the President of the National Assembly. I believe that members of 27 and 98 have been violated, as several members of the DSS have already said. I hope that you will answer that and that, as you confessed a few months ago to a mistake and a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you will do it now. And if you don't, in any case, I'm going to ask, just that kind of explanation would satisfy me, a statement in the day to vote on it. By the way, you interrupted a very abrupt session at the time, surprised everyone from the ZES Group, I saw your faces, you were all very surprised. Apparently, the reason for that was those consultations you had across the street with the President of the Republic. I do not argue that you may not have known about the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, but your own statement, the first one you gave after you left here and stood before the MPs, says you came here with a prepared story and with the intention of doing so. That's how you deceived the public and, all the time later, deceived the public with stories of obstruction of the opposition. Namely, I'll read from the stenographic notes everything you said here and then, and what you said to the media, since it's all ready. You have stated that an atmosphere is being transmitted from the City Assembly to the Republic Assembly and that you are therefore giving a two-week break to the MPs to gather, to find themselves, to calm down and then to continue to work, even though no word of that day mentioned the situation in the City Assembly. Not even one MP from the SRS answered the words, nor did he mention a session of the City Assembly, which took place in Belgrade at the same time. So, you and one prepared story came out, even though something else was going on in the O.R. In the DSS room, we protested the announcement by the minister of return of Serbia's ambassadors to EU countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija. You didn't mention it at any point in your statement, and that's why I'm saying you've deceived the public. When it comes to order, as a part of the agenda, your resolution, I will discuss it in detail. That is why you gave it the right to suspect that, in fact, this six-week break was because the arrest was being prepared, or Radovan Karadzic was already arrested, and we need to determine that, this assembly must know the truth about it. Then the topic, in any case, had to be the return of ambassadors to EU countries, as well as the installation of Eulex in Kosovo. At a time when the Assembly has not worked, six weeks, they are working on it, and the government of Cvetkovic-Dacek is preparing to accept and admit it, even in the words of the Prime Minister, and we will see what will happen tomorrow in Brussels; and here we are waiting for you, guaranteed to talk about it. Topics of forming the city government, preparing the statutes of Vojvodina, trying to annul the concession agreement for the Horgos-Pozega road, trying to tear down the Energy Agreement with Russia, as we see in some of the government, all of which you have tried to avoid for six weeks. That's why you falsely accused the opposition of obstruction all the time. And you have participated, but what you have done, you are a people's messenger and you have the right to comment on the work of the Assembly. However, I want to take this opportunity to protest, to seek the apology of Minister Sutanovci to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Who gave him the right to comment on the work of the National Assembly? People's MPs are people's constituents, they choose government and ministers. The minister is a servant of the people, the minister is our servant here, he is obliged to answer for work, not to follow what we are doing and, in addition, to announce the termination of TV transmissions; as we can see, the interference of TV transmission is under way. Who's to announce it, I'm asking you from the DS? Isn't that the legacy of fighting the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, or, in this preparation of the reconciliation document, which no one else will sign except you, with the SPS, have forgotten. As I recall, late Zoran Djindjic was struggling to transfer the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Zoran Djindjic has been Prime Minister for more than two years, he has had a fierce opposition against himself and has never said anything like that, he has never thought of such a thing to do and has come to these benches to argue with us. I was an MP back then, most of those from the DS didn't, so they may not remember it, but he fought in Parliament and debated with us in Parliament, with a TV broadcast. Who is this Shutanite who will end this legacy? There's no such thing, and he'd better be on the air anymore. He owes an apology to the National Assembly. The biggest apology is to you from the DS, even though he's your vice president. Otherwise, I haven't forgotten Hansel Dacic, but I'm waiting for a better transmission, and I'll talk about him later and when there's more MPs from the DS in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1567	I have repeatedly informed the public and you about the reasons for the break, and the length of the break, as I have already said, has been defined at the meeting by the heads of Parliament and myself. The word is Tomic Zeljko.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1568	President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, first of all I want to realize that after a kind of pacification of a political scene, which lasted at least four or five years, again in Serbia uses a pendrek, uses a boot, people get hurt, people get killed. It wasn't long for political reasons. Of course we attributed it to ourselves, we from the DSS, the greatest credit, because we believe that Serbia should calm down after all the turbulence it has had. However, these signals that are now coming from the police and from the authorities in general are worrying. After all, the heads of parliament's groups receive a letter from the interior ministry and from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I see him as humiliating and he speaks unequivocally of the slowness and ineffectiveness of this authority. It's a notorious fact. I mean, we've said it more than once, like you, Madam President, so we have the right to repeat, that he is a member of 98. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are very clear. I'll read the first three lines and then I'll say what I want: "The president of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when he determines the lack of quorum at the session of the National Assembly until the quorum is secured. The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion." We couldn't apply that to these provisions. Paragraph 3 says: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases if the National Assembly concludes it." There was no conclusion here. In informal talks, we found that 249 MPs did not know there was going to be an interruption, it was not known that there would be a break. That's all you knew when you came from Andric's wedding, from those famous consultations. You say obstruction. We ask – whose? The MPs of the SRS were in the process of working all summer. Over the past six weeks, we've been able to declare what we thought, what we wanted, whatever came from the government, could have been a second or, perhaps, a third session compared to the one that was interrupted six weeks ago. With all that my predecessors have been saying, I can put the accent on, I mean. to ask the question – what happens tomorrow in Brussels? What platform does the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, State President and Foreign Minister go with? With whose platform, which platform, and does any MP in the Assembly know one letter of that platform, if any? How accurate is the growing information that Serbia will accept Eulex to pass the Oil and Gas Agreement? How much is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia involved in all of this, as well as in any state arrangement? How many congregations, in general, are involved in Serbia's state-level policy? That's our question. By the time that comes, the point of the continuity of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija will become deplaced. This should be added to the withdrawal, i.e. the return of ambassadors to EU countries that have recognised KIM. You, President, said you'd send a memo to Minister Jeremic and when we got the answer, you'd give it to us. It's been a long time, and we didn't get that answer. We are talking about the absolute discontinuity of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. To make the shame bigger, and trouble, Prime Minister Cvetkovic openly announces, he openly supports a kind of discontinuity of politics held by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period. Many events, many are cited, exceeding the importance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the highest legislative body of Serbia. I appeal to all of us to come to ourselves while we still have a coma and to take over the most active possible role in political developments in Serbia. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1569	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am advocating a violation of the provisions of article 27 which determines your jurisdiction and I would like to say that you interrupted a session of the National Assembly and did not explain it to the MPs, as if they were your patients and as if you were holding some kind of collective therapy here. You have no right to do that. Madam President, you've allowed a hate speech here. From the assembly booth, every time, every session, the hate speech spreads, both earlier and today, and in order to prevent it, you did not use your powers from the Rules of Procedure, from art. In 105 and 106, you've taken absolutely no action. Then that hate speech was transmitted to press conferences, to rallying, to the streets, and what's happening to us is happening to us. We're on the agenda for the adoption of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement, and here every day we hear hate speech. It is completely contrary to the idea of a united Europe. You, Madam President, allow it. After that, in your public address to the media, you place all MPs in the same basket of the opposition and for everything that happens you accuse the opposition. You have no right to do that. Then you made it easy to promise that it was all past, everything will be consolidated as of today. As it has been consolidated, we see, we are witnessing it, and we, the local MPs present here, and the citizens of Serbia. One more thing, some of the ministers from your party and you are still saying today that Serbia should continue on the path of Slobodan Milosevic. It's like history repeats itself. It turns out that Serbia really went that way. You are the head of a Parliament that should adopt laws every day. This parliament has not passed a single law since its formation. What is the most legislative body? It's the irony of fate. You are responsible for this, Madam President, and it is time to consider your own responsibility, to consider whether you are capable of doing such a responsible job. Since you interrupted that session without explanation, without explanation, I suggest that, in accordance with Article 98(2), you set a break, that the Minister of the Interior should come here in the break, because whenever someone from the SPS is headed by the Ministry of the Interior, we have dead and wounded at the myths in Serbia. It's a repeat of history. Of course my views and ideas of the DHSS are in some way contrary to what the SRS advocates, but if there is one neatly reported rally, if there are representatives and MPs involved in that rally, then they get beat up and some of the people die at that rally, then they have to answer. I'll remind you, Madam President, this is even below the level that your authority once exercised. Let's go back a little bit, 9 March is the first rally on which there were victims; a police officer, a student, Branko Milinovic, died, and what happened afterwards? The assembly continued to operate, the polling committee was formed, Radmilo Bogdanovic, police minister, resigned, Dusan Mitevic, RTS Director-General, resigned, several main and responsible RTS editors resigned. It looked like democracy in that non-democracy regime, compared to today. And if it wasn't for beatings, there were beatings, and by all means. For years, since 9 June 1990, when the beatings were won by the late Borislav Pekic, over 9 March, and Dragoljub Micunovic swallowed tear gas, we were all beaten. Then there was Shormaz, then there was the Vidovdan Assembly, again the cordons, again the tear gasses, beating again. Beating and beating. Then the wolf and Danica Draskovic were arrested and beaten. I think it was July 1st, 1993. Then came the protest walks of the Together Coalition, beating, tear gas, cordons, informative talks, beatings, then the Union of Change protests. I'm saying all this because I personally participated in all of this and this is happening as a bad dream. And therefore, Madam President, take a break, invite Dacic or the Director of Police, let the truth be looked into the eyes, let what really happened be told, who is really responsible, and then we will get the conditions to work and no longer deceive the citizens of Serbia, while the Assembly becomes the Supreme Legislative Body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1571	Thank you. I would like to inform you that RTS immediately, in the first journal, apologized to the MPs, viewers and presidents of the Assembly for the tone disturbances in Mr. Ilic's exposure, but we still don't have any notice of how these disturbances occurred, and that was the question, as far as I realized. In the break, we'll ask that question one more time. The word is Alexandra Jankovic. Is he here? (No) Mr. Krasic Zoran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1572	I'm calling an officer. 104 and 226 because I believe that the situation is obvious, that there is a short need to get answers to some questions, and one that needs to answer very important questions or to remain silent, or to hide, or to throw out some peripheral civil servants or their wage media first. Obviously, one planned campaign is being conducted, so a man who has not been in Serbia for the past month and a half, so he comes and looks at this newspaper, can be crossed, surprised that this is possible, while the Assembly is on vacation, and the Assembly has sent the National Assembly president on vacation, the opposition is blocking the work of the Assembly. It's probably in those clear brains that a structure like that can appear, but she seems extremely sick to a reasonable man. In order not to repeat what my predecessors have pointed out very nicely, I must draw your attention that our situation is repeating itself. Batic talked about what happened in 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993, probably Tomislav and Philip can talk about what happened in Gjilan in 1995 and how this is seen as freedom of expression of opinion and freedom of assembly. But when the government makes the Democratic Party, recognizable by the fact that, in character and in the part of Natasha Micic, it has expelled MPs, in a coalition with the SPS, which was the first to go after the MPs and beat them up, then we get a turbo variant, a red-yellow, and this is no surprise. I'd go back to 1937. And she was characteristic, then the patriarch of Varnava was poisoned, and in history, let me say because of these 'yellows' who don't know anything, read a little book, known as 'blood lithium'. Namely, the citizens protested the concords concluded with the Vatican, led by the Serbian Orthodox Church, was lithium, it was bloody, because then the Minister of Interior Korošec, behold, a Roman Catholic priest, ordered the beating of both MPs and priests, and then SPC threw an anthem at all MPs who voted for the concordate. The Concordate has fallen, the government of Milan Stojadinovic has fallen. The situation is almost identical. In 2008, in conditions where every normal man on planet Earth is clear that The Hague tribunal is not formed to enforce justice and to determine the truth, but to kill the Serbs who are there, so if it cannot by a court ruling, then in another way, and we have evidence of that, because several Serbs died in The Hague tribunal under mysterious circumstances, those who advocated the lustration of the SPS, with the SPS building a new government and, of course, against the principles of lustration, deliver our citizens, along the way and kidnap someone, and that the state does not know who is, where – in an institution where we are absolutely all sure that there will be no truth and justice. Of course, new songs are being made in Montenegro, people's creativity is moving with geese, of course it seems irrational for atheists, but it just confuses me that they're afraid of folk curses. The people curse. Why is the people cursing? Because the world government does not fulfill the will of the people, it does not adhere to laws, regulations, justice, truth, but abuses power to do it to itself, and only to itself, someone good. Can it be good for Boris Tadic if Ranko Panic died? Can it be good for Dacic if Pelevic is beaten? Both were victims, both were peaceful citizens who came to express their protest, a protest against a government that abuses the position of government. In Montenegro, they will not curse the Tadic family, but Francetic, referring to Boris Tadic. Of course we have a political interest in evacuating Boris Tadic from political life, because he does not know how to work and of course we want to ban anyone from having contact with him. Why? Because after that comes the damage. Let me remind you, in February there was a great patriotic rally over the kidnapping of KIM. Same scenario as a few days ago when this rally was. Victim -- a Serb from Kosovo and Metohija, at the US Embassy. Recently, a rally of protests against Boris Tadic's politics. Victim, who? A refugee from Republika Srpska. You've heard these people, the MPs, they don't hurt from a Ustasha bullet, but they're in pain with a dark look, and a Pendrek, and a rubber bullet fired in downtown Belgrade. Why? What other dirty work haven't you done? Of course not, then, I recommend these two editions. First, "Whoever betrays Radovan Karadzic, cursed both his seed and his tribe." Why are you, atheists, rebelling? It's something to do with religion and Christianity. Your religion doesn't know about God, knows Boris Tadic as a god. I recommend a second edition: "Tadić and Dacic, the murderers of Ranko Panic". Come on, come out with the paperwork, with the reports, deny it, if you can. Did you hear a citizen, a neighbor who condemned the SRS rally? You couldn't hear. I just heard a photographer say, "They've destroyed the city." He knocked himself up there like he was from the BIA, so he came to provoke. Of course no one bought that provocation. We want to fence Boris Tadic, drop him out of political life. That's why we say to be cursed and every radical who agrees to talk to him. He needs to be kicked out of political life because it's the vermin of a planetary species. I just remind you that last year I said -- there is more damage one day for Boris Tadic as president of Serbia than for three consecutive dry years in Serbia. You can see for yourself that it's proven. Now that coalition is sophisticated, stronger. Of course we're looking for answers to these questions, there's a short need to answer this, to know who we're working with, what we're doing, why we're doing, and how much we can work in the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. As for other things, forget them. Please don't threaten to punish anyone. What it means is, for days, the president of the National Assembly, who is the first among the equal, has been threatening the other MPs. Why? What's he got to hide?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1573	The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1574	First, I'd like to apologize. I wasn't there the moment you called me, because I just got a request from Serbian NGOs and citizens protesting, here, day 44. I assume, President of the Assembly, that you, too, on July 29th, at least that's how you were seduced here, have received requests for MPs. These demands were made to you by people who are young, who are located in various Serbian NGOs, from "1389", "Doveri nomokanon", people who have been protesting for 44 days and have referred requests concerning answers and all MPs. What did you do? You've been forwarding a memo to the heads of the parliamentary groups, who wrote you this so-called. Minister of Police Dacic, because so-called The minister must be someone who is not held responsible for what happened in Belgrade and someone who gave Tito's honorary pioneer word that he did not arrest Radovan Karadzic. You've passed it on to the heads of Parliament. The public has no idea what actually happened, nor did you give that public, which is 44 days on the streets, any answer. Since this is the situation, I have simply received a recommendation and a request from these people to address you on their behalf. "Dear Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, since our first address to you has absolutely been ignored, so you have brought the Assembly into a position to be completely blocked, we have decided to come back to the building of our highest legislative body and to help you as citizens who are interested in Parliament working, and that the session will receive its normal course. To be honest, we were surprised that you had no ear to determine all the circumstances related to the death of Ranko Panic, whom the police brutally beat at the all-Serbian assembly. Also, we can't believe you don't want to schedule a special session at which, within half an hour, the Gas Agreement with Russia would be ratified. We are convinced that all MPs would agree to schedule this special session, but you keep avoiding doing such a thing. However, we hope that after this address, you will have a little more hearing, because this is the only way Parliament can begin with normal work. Our demands are as follows: First, as President of Parliament, invite Police Minister Ivica Dacic and Police Director Milorad Veljovic to be heard before the Committee on Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where he will finally reveal to the public whether any investigation into the murder of Ranko Panic has been launched and what the results of the investigation so far have been. Also, you are required to invite the police minister to contact the public from the assembly booth and to explain to MPs and the complete Serbian public, in a debate with the opposition why the police used inappropriate force towards the protesters and how the death of Ranko Panic occurred. Secondly, to schedule a special session of Parliament at which the only item of the agenda will be the ratification of the Gas Agreement with the Russian Federation. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, this agreement is essential for Serbia's further development and ratification of Serbia's ratification of gas supply for the next 40 years, driven by the economy and created conditions for the employment of a large number of unemployed. It is incomprehensible that you do not want to apply this measure, a team before we are convinced that all MP groups would agree to hold a special session at which it could all end within half an hour. If you do not do so as quickly as possible, we will consider you part of a lobby that works directly against Serbia's interest, because it is a public secret that certain Western companies with extremely dubious capital lobby through our ministers and influential politicians that Serbia is not ratifying the Gas Agreement with the Russian Federation so that they enter our market. Third, as President of Parliament, you will initiate a conversation with the heads of all parliamentary groups, where you will personally, as the first among the equal, initiate that the government's proposal for ratification of the UNSSP is withdrawn from the session's agenda. As you know, the EU, by sending the Eulex mission, which took over certain powers in Kosovo and Metohija, past UN Security Council Resolution 1244, has actually occupied part of our territory, applying parts of the infamous Ahtisaari's plan, which has not received support in the UN Security Council. By ratification in such circumstances, we would recognize this occupation and therefore give up Kosovo and Metohija, which is an act of high treason. "The signature says "Protest 2008. I really think, Mrs. Dejanovic, that both my colleague Shormaz and I were exaggerating in time when we talked here about whether you wear those 700-euro "myo-myo" shoes, it's not really a question, it's a question – it can be. Although, I thought it was onematopia, not the name of some shoe company, but, well, I managed to get that information, too. The real question for you is, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, not when will you make peace with the opposition, but when will you have enough hearing for the demands of the people who chose the opposition as their own representatives?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1575	I would like to remind the public and the MPs of the agenda procedure, including these sessions of this extraordinary session. The proposer can change, eventually, the order of the agenda points, single out the item and offer the agenda again, so such a proposal can only come to the Assembly and we can declare it. Otherwise, my grades are identical to your estimates of the importance of a gas-naphtha arrangement with Russia. As far as the Security Committee is concerned, the moment he invites Minister Dacic, and this is not done until this moment, to address the members of that committee, it will be done. Aleksandar Jugovic picked up the words
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1576	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I speak on behalf of the Serbian Renewal Movement. I had to react to earlier exposure when it was claimed that from the 1990s to 2000 there was no beating up of protesters, that the police were correct, that there was no excessive use of force. Should I remind you of all the victims of the SPI, because I think we're the most invited to talk about, the four people who died in the Ibaric Master's Office, Branivo Milinović and the assassination in Budva. All this and what was happening at the SPO is in favour of the claim that some who speak here often speak falsely. We are in favour of examining the responsibility of all those involved or responsible for all that has happened in connection with the death of this man, a member of the SRS, for a principled reason, because we have survived the same. However, I ask the people of the SRS not to make statements that they are not sorry for Slavko Curuvija, that the press conferences do not create an atmosphere of political lynching, political persecution. I am particularly protesting Mrs Jovanovic's earlier presentation in which she cursed the president of Serbia, the institution. It thus brought down the constitutional order, and I ask the state authorities to respond on this issue. Zvezdan Jovanovic deserves the honour of Gabriel Principe – these are the words we could hear from them, that Tito also had problems before he died with his leg, and many other things that pointed to the creation of a political atmosphere that could lead to riots and a destructive political atmosphere. I may expect that, in some future period, gentlemen from the SRS will carry red thread, bat wings, or whatever comes to mind, in a political struggle in which curses are used, but I will end up with evil sometimes being good, because when it turns out, it begins to work for the benefit of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1577	Mr Tomislav Nikolic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1578	Maybe we, a young colleague, will wear these threads and wings to the SRS rally. Just one thing you dropped to say, you killed a cop on your demonstrations. That's what SPO separates you from other political parties. A police officer was killed on your demonstrations. A peaceful citizen was killed on our demonstrations. It's just that there's a difference between you and us. Not because you're having an ash shower, because it's nice for a few of you to still be known as SPO, and your boss is making you a new party because he's not happy with you. And how would he be happy with you? Who are you in government with today? What did you say about these yellow ones, what about those red ones and what about the black ones? Who was good for you in Serbia? But when you reach the authorities, they're all good to you, but you're no good to the SRS. I appreciate and respect every political party that goes to the elections alone and crosses the censorship, every honour, and you who can't cross the censorship, then take Serbia into your own hands, you who have a budget that barely costs these poor citizens of Serbia, you who spread as ministers, and you can't go to elections, you should sit in these benches and just raise your diaries and pay. There, at least do some damage to Serbia, we can put up with you so much, because we'd have to do some yellows for you. We don't care if they put their 'yellows' on or if they put you on. But you don't exist, you're a virtual political party, you're gone. There's a bloodsucker you're sitting on Serbia's budget, but your party doesn't exist. You don't even have a party president. When you talk about the myths, I don't ask you to drink, I don't ask you to back us up, this isn't our match with the SPO, we're here discussing with the president of Serbia and the interior minister. These are our themes and our targets. This was all organised by the president of the Republic of Serbia, only because it seemed to him that he should listen to Tijanic so that we could not get to TV and listen to the director of police so that we do not get somewhere, in front of a building in Belgrade, because we will win that building. If we were like that, well, you wouldn't have peace after those demonstrations. Every day you'd have a demonstration. Every day you'd have a chance to kill. Of course, it's time to punish all the people who participated in any organization of any assassination, murder. After all, your party was on strike, but you never accused us of organising it, you accused your coalition partners. You accused the SPS of killing your members. How do you lick what you spit? How do you forgive other people's deaths now? Whenever you tell us about the assassination, do you think these people, if by any chance survived, would approve this coalition today? Do they mean anything to you in life, except to mention them as some kind of sacrifice? Whose victims? You said Slobodan Milosevic and Mira Markovic. So the SPS is now not a party of Slobodan Milosevic and Mira Markovic? Whose is it now? The Dacic Hansel Party? Let Ivica Dacic take responsibility. It is easy to be a police minister, but when police brutally kill a man, the minister must answer, not write -- it will be determined. Ranko Panic died on July 15th, 29th was killed, 15th just stopped breathing. He was killed on 29th. It's September 2nd, it's a month and 10 days. The police minister is forming an eight-member task force. Don't tell us anything. This battle will be fought, not because of you, not because of us, this must be because of Serbia. Half of us are on the other side. You've won the government by political games, so you're leading the country right. Without 10 votes, you don't have that government anymore, but you run the country right, don't harass half of Serbian citizens, kill, eliminate. I know it's hard for you. You cannot attack your own party that participates in this, but none of you will come out here to say: shame on you for anything you say about it. Which one of you is ready to carry the burden of responsibility to the citizens of Serbia on your back, that he doesn't care about being killed by a man? Which one of you? Here, and this kid from Krushevac, who's always got something against radicals, he's not around for a pay phone. How can he say if they killed a man? How do you say they didn't exceed their clearance? How can he say - we'll beat you up tomorrow? He can't. He won't even come out to back us, his parliamentary mandate will stop. But I'm telling you, from the ruling coalition, it's the honor of those who are now cut off from the parliamentary mandate, who are now cut off from the ministerial mandate, that's the honorable people, everyone else is working for money.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1579	Branko Ruzic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1580	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101. Given that, as expected, we did not move to the debate on agenda points, and on several occasions the SPS was mentioned, and in order not to waste time, I waited to accumulate all that information, the misinformations that were made here, to try to bring out the facts in a rational way. So there is what followed the protest that was organised on July 29th, and there is something that preceded it. Responsibilities may be, both at the organiser's meeting and on those who, if established, exceeded the authority, but there was full coordination between the organisers and the restoring ministry, in the sense of organising the meeting. Also, from the pitet to the man who died, I don't want to deal with political necrophilia, given that it has happened on many occasions in this House, it's somebody's right, and I have nothing against it. It is possible for them that it is legitimate, for some of us it is not, nor is the Assembly a place where any act or tragic death outcome can be qualified, murder. That's what you all know very well, and I don't know why you're doing it here and raising your tension. As far as we, the SPS, are concerned, we are extremely interested in determining the responsibility of those who, if they have, have exceeded their authority. Facts related to this protest rally say the balance of injured is the following: 58 members of the MUP, 27 citizens or protesters and two journalists. That's the facts, that's the official report. I must say, at the request of the representative of the SRS, the President of Parliament sent a letter to the Registrar. The minister presented only the fact that a task force was formed to determine all the facts. Why are we interested in determining responsibility? The only member of the SPS at the interior ministry is her president, Mr. Ivica Dacic. We don't want the SPS to be a monet to be a pro-tour between some major parties. As for some genealogy, I must remind you, when we return to the history of protests in Serbia, when we remember Bran Milanovic, that we also remember Nedek Kosovic, a member of the MUP, who then lost his life. I understand this indifference coming from this side, it is, unfortunately, natural, but I ask the president to allow me more, perhaps, a minute, even though I've timed out. I wouldn't want to hurt anyone in any way and insult the representatives of any MP group. If you have problems with these curses, you don't have to bring them out publicly, keep it for your internal party use, if there are any among you, but I don't believe it. As for calling on that tragic event on October 5th, when, among other things, Mr Milanovic was beaten up, as you say here that we are sitting with some, and this is Serbia today, unfortunately, it is a fact; you are sitting with some who were then taking the lead in the baggers, that October 5th, and you are telling the same story. So, you give a little self-respect, let's respect this home and try to get out of this in a dignified way. Let's not constantly politicize certain tragedies, events, qualify them for certain things that you yourself know aren't true, because it's not correct, and at least it's not true. Remember March 29 or 30, 2001. I am young, but I was also in this room, back in 2001, something was going on in front of the Peace villa. The Serbian Radicals did not interrupt the session until about 23pm, or join us then, and Slobodan Milosevic was arrested, for which you are here to shed tears. It doesn't matter, it's a fact. What is important, then, is also the use of battle ammunition, the beaten MPs, one I will mention, Joca Arsic of the Great Plan, and no one was raised to block Parliament's work. A photographer was injured, his last name I don't know, his name is Andrija, though, it was a minor injury than a ricocheted bullet. I can still give the facts here, but I'm not going to satisfy you so much. What Serbia needs today is to determine the facts. It is our intention, and so is Mr. Dacic. I repeat, do not use and abuse anyone's tragedy, nor the SPS for your work together. Keep the curses to yourself, it's not a manners and civilization progress for this home. It is our intention and our intention to determine the responsibility of those who have exceeded the powers. When you talk about autopsy, you're telling the truth. She's not finished and the autopsy, as far as I know, is not in the custody of the Home Office, at least in this tragic case that happened. So, I'm sure that in the SPS and its president, the current interior minister, you'll have a partner to identify those who are responsible and we'll determine all the facts if someone has exceeded their powers, just let us call things a real name, not to politicize them, politically abuse them, and that way we think we're going to collapse a certain political profit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1581	Let me inform you that Mr. Nikola Mirkov, Director of Television, addressed the Assembly in writing with the following text: "Dear lady, gentlemen, we apologize to you and the People's MP of the Serbian Parliament, Mr. Velimir Ilic, because during his presentation, the tone of the first and second RTS programme has been mixed for about 40 seconds. We have established that the mistake was made by our Tonian Realiser of the Vladimir Vukmiric Assembly Transfers, in the rooms of the Serbian Parliament. The tone lines are mixed because the procedure for the direct inclusion of RTS news reporters with the simultaneous direct transmission of Parliament's session is not respected. The editor in charge gave him the suspension. It is not an accurate statement by Natasa Jovanovic to the assembly speaker that technical disturbances occurred during the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic. RTS believes such professional failures and mistakes are not allowed in television programmes in which Serbian citizens have the highest confidence. With respect. '"The word has Jeremy the Vladan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, you who transfer this assembly session can follow without any caused technical disturbances, coming to today's session of the Assembly, I have been thinking about what kind of state we live in. I cannot accept the fact that this is not Serbia in which we are looking forward to a new day, in which there is a purpose of life, but Serbia in which it measured values was exclusively party membership. Is this the kind of Serbia that is reflected by the congregation's majority, tailored to the sole goal -- the extension of this agony, in which more and more of us, from day to day, are drawn by an unhuman and dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic?- I'm sorry. I can't believe, really, regardless of the diversity of political programming, that we can become less and more inhumane. Is it possible that there was a thought that here in the Assembly, the fact that in Serbia, Belgrade, the free spirit was contained by brutal beating to death? As an MP from Mladenvec, as someone with whom Ranko Panic went to the all-Serb assembly on July 29th, as an honest patriot and patriot, and where he was then killed, with a Serbian pendreka and a gendarme boot, only because someone was ordered to suppress this free spirit, not choosing the price, therefore, and at the cost of human life, I have a moral and human obligation to repeat my request for answers to questions that have already been asked by colleagues. There's only two of them. So, who's the killer of Ranko Panic and who's the commander of that murder? This is a commitment to his mother Smilja, wife to Mirjana, to thousands of citizens who knew Ranko, and their request is truth and responsibility. The truth must come, however much someone has tried to hide from the public, just as, apart from 'Justice', no media of European Serbia has even given a second's attention to the interest in the life of a Serb who has escaped Ustasha interest and thousands of bullets in Krajina, and has experienced the death of a Serb Pendrek in Belgrade, Serbia. Also, I can't be surprised at this congregation's majority, which is obviously able to subdue human life to European integration. Who gave himself the right to decide that the life of Ranko Panic only lasts 41 years? Who gave himself the right to leave his mother without the only son, to take away the wife from someone she planned a family life in a house whose foundations had just been laid? You say you were protecting public order and peace, defending the law. Gentlemen, "whose law lies in the topus, his tracks smell like inhumane." On this case, it's more than obvious. When things are like that in Serbia, I am not surprised that Kosovo and Metohija are the last item of the agenda, I am not surprised that you did not even blink on the fact that yesterday in the building of the Municipality of Strpce, in the heart of Serbia, there was an incursion of the Cypriot separatists, along with the assistance of the KPS, where they tried to throw out legal representatives of the government, whose only sin is that Serbian radicals and respect for the Constitution and the laws of the Serbian state. May it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1583	Mr Tomislav Nikolic called about the Rules of Procedure. Replica has no advantage over advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have finally heard of an SPS representative, I am obliged to warn him of several facts. Then when his coalition partners arrested Slobodan Milosevic, we interrupted the session of the National Assembly around 16 hours, and Slobodan Milosevic was our political rival. We began to express ourselves positively about Slobodan Milosevic when he went to The Hague, when you took him with a bag on his head, when he started defending Serbia and Serbia and when he lost his head because of it in The Hague. A man like that should have been defended after that, had to be supported. Half of the SPS went straight to Zoran Djindjic as soon as Milosevic was arrested; there it immediately received 14 votes at every session of the National Assembly. That's how you treat yourself and act, as soon as it's a rag, you're looking for new channels, as soon as life is easy, you're good. You're talking about political necrophilia. What does that mean? What kind of expression is that? Murdered man, what necrophilia? To find out who killed the man, we have no right to ask that? Come on, let's not ask that. Come on, close it all up, nothing else in Serbia can be a question. Once upon a time, after World War II, the definition – died in the presence of power and was not explored. So Ranko Panic died in the presence of power. Now how do you ask how he died? Who are you asking, our President Boris Tadic? You're asking our party president Hans Dacic? Who are we going to do this You've taken over both power and honor, and sweetness, and obligation. Act accordingly. Officers' injuries. I'm not afraid to tell you everything I think. I was at the Emergency Center that night. Slavisha Kokez was lying across Alexander Vukic, his skull was broken, his arm was broken, it was meant for Alexander Vukic. I sat next to him for an hour and a half at the Emergency Center, and I saw those injured cops of yours. There's cops going and temples. I say, "Why do you pretend to be injured so that you may be counted?" Who's hurting you? Where's the one that hurt you? Why didn't he come here for medical attention now? About 50 cops came looking for medical attention, none of them who beat them came looking for medical attention. Two hours of police fighting 100 hooligans and pushing them to our rally uninterrupted, to mix us up. We weren't mixed up that night, they weren't our participants, they were yours, they were people brought in, those two hours, you broke us in three minutes. In three minutes, you broke that huge crowd. That's how you break the mass. The U.S. Embassy got killed the same way. Two hours they set fire to the U.S. Embassy, so the police would tear them apart in a minute. It's all the same scenario. Who's doing this at the police station? You say you only have one in the police department, and that's the minister. I told you that. I told Dacic a month before you joined the government. They change the composition of the police, put 'yellow' in the police. Who's gonna run the police? Giddyup? What Dacic? Now he won't even be responsible. He wants responsibility. Let him come here and say, "I have no idea what the police are doing." And that's fair. As he said - I have no idea who arrested Radovan Karadzic. And that's fair, and it'll make Serbian citizens appreciate it. What's indefensible, don't defend. It's unfortunate that we have to ask who killed the man. You wouldn't have let us go this long if we were to ask who wounded Pelevic; you'd have suffered an hour and started to throw out, but there isn't one life here. We can continue at 17 hours session, in order, but by 17 hours, tell us what happened. We've been waiting a month and a half for you to say it. You won't? You'll be waiting for an extension of this session. Is that what Serbia needs? You don't have to. Do you need that agreement of yours? Get to that deal. Why don't you let us move on to the Association Agreement? What's the condition? To tell us who killed us. Is that a difficult condition? There's no deal. Mrs. Djukic, in connection with the agreement with the Russians, 15 days ago, I told his Excellency to the Ambassador of the Russian Federation how the session was achieved. That was rejected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I said go to the government of Serbia, go to the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister has no head, and it doesn't matter. Go and tell them to take the gas deal off the session that's being held today, because it'll come in two months for the vote. Have them schedule a new emergency session for September 2nd, 9 a.m., by 10:00 p.m., a gas deal will be voted. But half the government doesn't want that arrangement, and neither will you, "yellow." You signed it in the campaign to win the presidential election, and now you say it's a small price. Let's put the gas deal to the vote, see if it goes without us. Without votes, us and the DSS can't get through, because you don't have the consent to that gas deal. Let us also be against the Association Agreement, not to the end, but only to say - in the ratification law, confirm that for you Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia and we will vote in favour of the Association Agreement. But you won't. You must not contract to commit Europe to, whenever Serbia says, both Kosovo and Metohija. You're distracting us here, and when we're out of line, you're taking us down and beating us. We'll reorganize the rally, make sure of that. You didn't scare us, you didn't tell us. Think about how many bitter people will come to our next rally, but then we won't tolerate you breaking us up with a provoker. Well, then we're gonna kick their ass, and we're gonna have to challenge them, at least we're gonna take off their masks. I called from the pay phone to take off the masks, to see those cops under the masks. What hooligans, what coppers! You don't know who's taking you into Serbia or who's arresting you. We're going to find out, and we're going to drive out the English, and the Americans, and those who are sitting in the BIA, and those who are sitting in the MUP, and those who are sitting in the government, who are why you shot down the government. It's easy for them to kill Serbs, it's easy for them to extradite Serbs to The Hague, but it's your responsibility. I'm sorry that Mr. Ruzic came out, we'd have a lot to share today, but we won't, he said his, so he ran away. You, socialists, won't be able to keep your mouth shut for long in the Assembly. You wear it on your back, the people ask you what you've done. It would be best if we went to new elections, so tell the Socialist gentlemen, in the campaign, that you'll go back with Tadic to the government, and then we're calm; you didn't deceive anyone, you didn't deceive anyone, that's your coalition partner, that's your coalition capacity. I'm fully prepared to accept that, but just to let me know in the campaign, that you don't drag voters against the killings of citizens on the streets of those who organize those murders. It is the only moral act I ask of you, including you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. You're a great expert, you're a doctor of integrity, you have your authority, not now with this insignificant business, by running the National Assembly, to throw your distinguished medical career under your feet. Believe me, people in Serbia, except those who were lucky to treat them, don't know you as a doctor, don't know you as good. If they know you as president of the assembly, they'll know you as a very bad man.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1585	Alexander Pejcic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1586	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is the time for Serbian citizens to learn the truth, to find out why the Serbian Parliament has not worked for almost a month and a half and to find out who is guilty of not working for almost a month and a half. The DSS has no problem with the truth. The DSS always tells Serbian citizens the truth in the eyes. This time, the culprits that the Serbian parliament has not worked are Parliament Speaker Mrs. Djukic and the ruling majority. That's what we have to tell the citizens in the eyes. I'll remind you, that morning Mrs. Dejanovic went to the consultations, went for her opinion across the street, into the presidency building, phoned me neatly. After that, coming here, she took a break of 10 days, then a month's break. Given that the night she took a break, Radovan Karadzic was arrested, and until today we haven't solved the mystery of whether he was arrested that night or much earlier, we didn't get an answer to that question. Also, we didn't get an answer to the question of who arrested Radovan Karadzic, did Radovan Karadzic arrest the MUP, BIA, or perhaps some secret service of another country? We didn't get that answer until today. I will remind you, Mrs Djukic, that during the golden parliamentism, it is the time of the two governments of Vojislav Kostunica, over 300 laws were passed. It should be a parameter for you to lead this House. We also said that you had neither political nor moral legitimacy to lead this congregation because the people did not want to. We also need to draw attention to our government, the Government of Mirko "neakog", the government that is trying to, in a small way, drag EULEX into Kosovo, reconfiguring UNMIK, and then, by recognising Marty Ahtisaari's plan, this government wants to recognise Kosovo's independence at a small door. My party colleagues, Mr Samardzic, will talk about this later. You will make sure, Serbian citizens, that that is the only thing that this government wants to do, to recognise Kosovo's independence. I would ask friends of the SPS this time – do they know that in one part of Serbia's territory, in Vojvodina, a new statute is being prepared, which speaks of the new state's prerogative, where this new state, Vojvodina, will have its diplomatic representation abroad, will have its ministers, except the military, and will try to have all the prerogative states? So please, everyone here from the SPS, don't accept the fact that Vojvodina should become a state again. It was your late president, Slobodan Milosevic, who fought for Vojvodina to be comprehensive and to join Serbia. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I would ask all of you to give clarifications for what the SRS asked for. In fact, the SRS is just looking for an explanation of who was responsible and who killed young Panic. We don't have an explanation for that, and we want to demystify that problem. For this reason, we expect you to notify this Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1587	The word came from Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the notice of the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia delivered, is at least inappropriate. The president of Serbia and the government must make an urgent statement and give answers to who staged the riot and chaos on Belgrade streets at the time of the "Freedom for Serbia" rally, which led to the murder of Rank Panic, beating up citizens who peacefully protested and attempted assassination of SRS officials. Who needed it, who did it, with the intention of blaming the SRS? The intention of riots was obvious because a group of hooligans, who clashed with the police, was deliberately pushed towards the citizens at the rally, were brought in. Who ordered that every vote choke against the dictatorial regime? Who gave the order to overuse the force? Who gave permission to use tear gas, rubber bullets and beat up citizens? Who killed Ranko Panic? Who is responsible for such beatings by Ranko Panic and causing injuries that led him to die later? Who forbade regime media to report to the public about the death and funeral of Ranko Panic? Wasn't the murder of Ranko Panic more than enough reason, even for those who have a hint of morality, for one of the representatives of the authorities to address the family of the murdered, the mother, the wife, to at least offer condolences for the death of the only son? Couldn't Boris Tadic, who has practiced so well an apology to all but the citizens of Serbia? I guess the Ranko Panic family, who defended the Serb people at the battlefields, suffered from beatings ordered by the Serbian regime, even if it deserved it? Who gave the order to wipe out the top of the SRS? Who threw tear gas at SRS deputy president Tomislav Nikolic? Who beat up Secretary General Alexander Vukic? Who shot SRS MP Borislav Pelevic in the head and tried to kill him? Who beat up SRS MP Dusan Maric after showing MP ID? Will the authorities punish those responsible for the murder of Ranko Panic, the beating of citizens and the attempted assassination of SRS officials? Perhaps all of this is part of Tadic's keeping order, as after beating the citizens, he expressed satisfaction with the work of police and gendarmes and maintaining order on Belgrade's streets. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, not a blocking opposition, as you claim, the European development of Serbia, but a dictatorial regime blocks democracy and freedom of speech, introduces dictatorship and kills Serbian citizens on Belgrade streets. In the end, Madam President, I give you a new number of "The Great Serbia" – "Tadic and Dacic, the murderer of Ranko Panic". Unfortunately, the other one, "Whoever betrays Radovan Karadzic, his damn seed and tribe," has already been robbed. This is a piece of truth in the media blockade introduced by the regime, because virtual reality created by the regime media does not have daily protests of patriotic NGOs, such as neither death nor the funeral of Ranko Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1589	Mr. Jovan Damjanovic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1590	Ladies and gentlemen, after the fall of the communist system, something is happening in the democratic system of the Republic of Serbia that should not happen. This kind of murder, I call it a political, gentleman, boy, Ranko Panic, the shooting of MP Pelevic, the beating and physical attack on Alexander Vukic, the throwing of tear gas at the leaders, SRS officials, Nikolic, Todorovic and others, is today's democracy, and this is today's political truth in Serbia. If we want democracy, and I think we all need to want democracy, we know that there is no unanimity in the democratic system, there must be a multiparty system. You cannot kill and punish in such a drastic, uncivilized way, kill and remove from the political scene the strongest political party, the SRS. We have big problems in our country today, and we are not solving these problems, which are priority issues, but, as I said, Serbs are dealing with Serbs. It's the most terrifying act for the future of our country, our people and our existence in this country. We have a problem with Kosovo, we have EULEX, we have an agreement with the Russians on gas and oil derivatives, then, on European integration. Instead of working on these questions and dealing with it in this congregation, we kill our own people. Please, this whole world is judging. We can't go into the world with these political murders, enter Europe and say we're a democratic state. A lot of people have said a lot before me, I shouldn't be duplicating what's been said right now. As a minority man and a member of the SRS, I want to appeal to Serbian officials that we no longer kill each other, that you do not kill, exactly, the people of those who make a great contribution to stabilisation in Serbia, the promotion of Serbia, its people and its nationalities that live here, and that is the SRS, but that we join together and that all the problems that affect this country and this people are settled in agreement. The SRS is always there to make its contribution to every stabilisation, progressive, as they say, solutions and better tomorrow in this country. I hope, and I believe that this will be, as I would like, the last torture of the opposition and the last murder of the opposition and their members, the SRS, because this does not lead to democracy, this leads to total dictatorship. I believe that Serbia and the Serbian leaders of this country will understand and accept my appeal that this country is truly democratisation and that this people and our Serbia live better because it deserves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1591	The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1592	Dear citizens of Serbia, I speak to you. I will address my colleagues in the congregation at the end of the presentation. I am reporting under Article 226, to ask the competent authorities if they are aware that we are in a state of intolerance and extremism and in a state of war against everyone. The perception of political inexperience as an enemy has affected the formation of a political culture in which reaching for repressive measures, even for people's lives, has developed into a system of governance. Such political extremism culminated this summer at the end of the assembly session and the rally of the SRS and proved to be bare violence against the people. Over what part of the people? Over the work of people who are nationally frustrated, unemployed, socially vulnerable and personally devoid of affirmation by citizens of Serbia. It's terrible that we're at a time when the war in words on our political scene, in fact, preceded the regimeal repression that we're in, and the victims started to fall. Irregular words, are they simply called words condemning the misdemeanors of the authorities from which they are killed as bullets, even if they were rubber, and evil messages sent by politicians? Is it more ominous than the words that describe these acts? To a large extent, they encourage political crime and you have no way to justify it. As you know, there were always strong words, and then bombs and people. At a time when non-democratic institutions are weak and weak, you know that the rule is applied, you have proved to us that a more powerful pedal is one's authority than a kilometer of one's right. Unfortunately, our rulers, headed by Mr. Boris Tadic, apply the rule of stronger and more powerful to edit our lives. Media, whose main business is the production of political loyalty, are also serving such a way of ruling. A regime that has been condemned to be inherited at their levers, in the rule of the media, security services and finance, continues violence against the citizens. I will cut my speech short because the time and respect of the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to say everything, but why does Serbia keep quiet? Because it has poor, unemployed youth and workers, refugees and small businesses, who cannot resist. All I've read to you, dear colleagues and respected citizens, is in fact a quote from distinguished Professor Jovica Trkula, a political opportunity researcher published in a daily newspaper, which is something that every honest citizen of Serbia can stand behind. Brothers and sisters, citizens and citizens, ask yourself how much you deserve me to address you like this, as colleagues, at the moment, even in silence, you support the culprits for the death of Ranko Panic and the attempted murder and wounding of my brother, citizen Borislav Pelevic and SRS MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1593	The word is Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1594	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, this present performance, or speech, I was prepared the day you broke up the session in such a brutal way, with some unmistakable excuses, and I was prepared to address, primarily, Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, who spoke of tolerance a few moments earlier. What I was about to say at the time was only confirmed by brutal events that occurred in the past month and a half in Belgrade, including in Serbia. I didn't see any more intolerance, and I didn't experience it until I got here, to the Assembly. I've been on a few committees, and I've been sitting across from your colleagues, or your MPs, a mile and a half away. So much unculture was in the Committee for European Integrations by Mrs. Komic and Mrs. from G17 as Mr. Momir Markovic spoke, who explained the amendments of Ms. Vjerica Radete and Tom Nikolic for 10 minutes. All the time, they were talking, talking, and disturbing his exposure and extremely rudely throwing it away. When I see, especially your younger members, I can't take away the impression that I see hatred from their eyes. All of this culminated in the interruption of the session, the arrest of Radovan Karadzic and the beginning of the protest. I didn't show up until the second day in the protests, and I participated in them until the rally, but by preventing some protesters who were masked and who tried to beat the police and journalists with a group of my associates. You can see it on the tapes. Not only do I talk about how many times Mr. Delic flew into the crowd, protecting police and journalists, and also some people who went by because these people wanted to cause incidents. On the fifth or sixth day, they cut off from coming to rallys, or protests, because radicals don't let them fight with the police. There's a rally coming up, and there's the same people at that rally that I've been watching for seven days. There aren't any amongst us. They're a few hundred yards away from us, 500 meters away, and they're fighting with the police. They're making scenes, like something's going on, but nothing's going on. It only happens when they end up pushing them towards us to cause incidents. A lot of people split up at that point. I was informed that evening, for example, from Sremska Street, that a group of people present at the protest were on their way back through the Green Wedding for New Belgrade. They were met there by a cordon of police, and he didn't let them pass, they threw tear gas at them. It was only when they saw these people, so confused, and a few thousand people, that they wouldn't make incidents, that they let them through. We've entered here, in the country, in a state of madness, a state where, apparently, reason cannot cope with some mental states of these people across the street and then we get to what's called curses. Someone asked why and how. The moment that you can no longer stand up to normal, parliamentary and democratic, moral and human means, man, who, in essence, homo-religiously believed or believed in something, or if he believes in something, must look where there is some power and invite someone to, as our people say, be wise. Since our history teaches us that no one who has betrayed has done well and that everyone who betrays is not going well, at a time when you can't stand up to madness, and the nonsense that has so much force in it, I mean the police, the finances, the government, then you have to call on something that's above you. We're referring to what's above us. I don't know why it hurts because it hurts because it hurts because it's true. You'll see, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1595	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1596	Thank you. Here I go. He speaks incendiary. What does that mean? He speaks incendiary? We go out, we talk at the assembly pay phone, we talk at the mitts, and then some of your people come and beat us. What does that mean? We speak so flammablely that we persuade you or your supporters to beat us. What kind of flammable speech? What are you talking about? The SPS gentleman just said to stop crying for Milosevic. Milosevic was the president he was, but he was the president and if it hadn't been for the SRS, he wouldn't have been buried in Serbia. In the end, we managed to fight to bury him in Serbia, and even for the place where he is, even though he is no match for one president, we fought. Where were you from the SPS? Look yourself in the mirror, so answer yourself. Why are we raising tension? I guess it's because someone died. We have the right to raise tension. They were all potential victims. You almost broke someone's spine, someone just stayed alive because a bullet missed him by a few millimeters from where he was headed. Every bat that came from her feet and hands on her body that night and every rubber bullet that was fired was attempted murder. You're asking, why are we raising tension? Well, how can we not raise the tension? If each of us represents 15,000 citizens and we're some people who have immunity, and that's how we're treated, how are we treated by some ordinary people out there, on the street?- I'm sorry. What are they hoping for? That they hope, when they drink a little more there, in Guca, that the president of Serbia will jump over his security detail to strangle him, like it was three or four years ago? Is that what they're hoping for? You've brought yourself into an extremely schizophrenic situation, and I don't think a psychiatrist, who, by the way, is going to help you get out of it so easily, because this colorful coalition of yours reminds me of a hippie movement, a hippie commune, to use that color color used a month ago by a colleague from Kragujevac. Among you is "Stokholm syndrome," which means that the victim has been so relaxed, so forgiving, that she eventually identified herself with the torturer, and you've been persecuting and torturing yourself for the last 15 years, and in the end, in that one of your syndromes, you've started harassing others, given that you've found some consensus among yourselves. It's not nice, it's embarrassing, we're waiting for answers. It's staged, it's staged. Thank God there were no more victims, but we're waiting for answers for what happened, who's responsible and who's to blame. There's no upheaval. Thank you. So much for tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1597	The word is Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1598	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, in connection with the March 9th events, Serbian citizens know the truth and know who is responsible for Serbia's greatest national disaster and for hundreds of thousands of people who have been distracted, who have been killed in past wars. You know it best. About the salaries and diaries of those who led the country at the time, and it is known who ran it, you have been taking salaries and diaries for days, and you have been objecting to the SPO, working in the interests of Serbian citizens by spending their money and by blocking Serbia. If it is fair to spend money on Serbian citizens in this way, then it shows how much you care and how much you care about Serbian citizens. As big as we are, it best shows the fact that you're in our business. We now have four MPs in this House, but we are as strong as the SPI programme is realized: anthem, coat of arms, everything we started in the 1990s. Now you stand still in front of that state sign and sing the "God of Justice" anthem. Three fingers became a national symbol. We will never, it speaks of our principle, lie to the citizens of Serbia, unlike some who do. The principle of principle is only in a situation where one who is principled suffers because of its principle. If someone else gets hurt for someone's principle, that man isn't principled, he's responsible. On behalf of those responsible and on behalf of those who will never lie to the citizens of Serbia, it was my duty to address you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1599	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1600	Your Honor, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have come to you on two grounds. The first is a replica to Mr. Ruzic. I'll just say a few sentences, very short. I'm saying that the DSS, indeed, supports both the SRS and all parties' rights to get an answer to the question they've been asking all day. The issue is very important for the work of this Parliament and for the peace in this society, because the opposition's continuous accusation that it, with its loud speech of the facts that the ruling coalition wants to keep quiet, is a lie that needs to be demassed in this parliament. Otherwise, parliament, by definition, must be telling the truth. On the other hand, I have to remind myself of an event many years ago, when a man was killed in one demonstration and then the SPS minister, Radmilo Bogdanovic, resigned. No one asks this minister to resign, I don't hear here that anyone mentioned his resignation today, but they're asking him to answer the question of who's guilty because the police overstepped power, because a man was killed, because no one is responsible, and no one is mentioned more than that story in public, except for his colleagues from the SRS. Another thing that young counterpart Ruzic said was that they only have a minister at the ministry. The truth is they only have a minister, but he's in charge of organising the ministry's work, and if he's not capable, he says there are no personnel who could take what he wants to reorganize the ministry, then reorganize the service, reorganize the ministry, change the personnel. To remind, during the time of Minister Dragan Jocic, and in the first and second term, there were demonstrations, there were very tense situations, but there were no people killed. Now what I really wanted to say. I appeal to Article 226 and ask for a notice and an explanation from the prime minister for the facts he presented in an interview with "Politice", August 28th. Since I'm going to use a few quotes, I'm going to ask you to take care of it, I'm going to say very precisely when I use the quote. The prime minister says: "Our official position is that the arrival of Eulex without an appropriate UN resolution and without our consent is illegal and it is unacceptable for us. Unfortunately for us, EULEX began without our participation. We disagreed with that, but it's clear that it's not good to obstruct anything just for obstruction. "We have an incredible situation here. What's it called when someone from another nation comes to your territory, doesn't respect your law, enforces your law, you didn't invite him, you didn't empower him? He came to your territory and ordinary people say that – occupation. So, you have an occupation of your southern province, and you do not want to be obstructed for obstruction, because you are fine, well-trained and you do not want to be obstructed as an evil opposition in the Serbian Parliament. It's amazing, you don't want to do obstructions for obstruction. I suppose you'll be doing it because you're the prime minister of this country, protecting the Constitution of this country, protecting international law, protecting your country and your country's interests. The follow-up to the interview, please do not take the quote into account: "That is why we need to participate in this reconfiguration of UNMIK, or the installation of Eulex, because we want to be part of the joint story. In the current Eulex position, we were not involved enough, at first we were not involved at all." The DSS has been warning for several months, and what's happening now and what's being served in this interview as a fact is what made this government. This is the Manter government, and this government was designed to make a difference with the state and national policies that previous governments had led. This government is designed to release Kosovo down the water and this is what the prime minister in this sentence tells us very clearly. Who authorized him to do what he tells us here? What is the resolution in force and does he know that there is a Constitution in front of him and that he is the official of this country? What's the Prime Minister up to? The following quote: "and not only to engage, but to turn what we agree in the end into some resolution that will be confirmed by the Security Council." My question is -- isn't the Constitution of Serbia in force here, isn't Resolution 1244? I don't know she was suspended on any body. Aren't the resolutions and declarations that this assembly has brought, and we brought them together, as I recall, and the signatories are the same people sitting here, the same politicians from the parties who were guaranteed it? I don't understand where the Prime Minister's authority to bring any resolution in any way. What my question is, which is why I answered, is it true what the foreign officials have been saying for a long time, and in the media it appears, that secret negotiations are being held behind closed doors, and that what the Prime Minister has told us here and what he is preparing us for is, in fact, the answer to what will be the result of these negotiations, that Serbia will release its southern province down water, give a voluntary 15% of its territory, just to stand in front of the doors that are closed?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1601	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1602	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are people who can explain something and there are those who need to seek help to understand things. Unfortunately, there is one political party on Serbia's political scene that is impossible to explain. The SPO in this hall, in this coalition where it is now, is not the only party with which it has not started a political war, practically, until its destruction. First with the SPS, then, in turn, with opposition parties, and the culmination of these conflicts was in 1997, i.e. early 1996, when the coalition "Together" was founded. The name "yellow company" was not from anyone but from Vuk Draskovic. So much bile, so much for one political party on Serbia's political scene was not what it was between the SPO and the DS. Just to remind you that at the time, although the SPS was at war with the SPS, it did not bother him to join the coalition with them and that in 1997, together with the SPS, at the City Assembly of Zoran Djindjic and kicked the DS out of power. Today, the rest of the political party again raises the issue of events that took place in the 1990s and, of course, the main indictees of these events are the SPS, as it was at the time in power. Now one question is asked – how can they be together today in the same government? How is it possible, if they want to accept the SPS, that they, as high moral people, accept such help? How could Vuk Draskovic accept the SPS vote to be elected foreign minister? Only one reason – benefit, material benefit. It would be best for them to hear about themselves from those they call upon. One of them is Vesko Osmajlic, brother of Zvonko Osmajlic, who was killed at the Ibaric Master's Office. What he said at the time about Vuk Draskovic and SPO in court, everything says about them. The best thing would be to ask Mr. Vlajko Senic, who was in the party until yesterday – what are the reasons that led him to stop being in the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1603	Mrs. Gordana Paunovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1604	Dear citizens of Serbia, whom I want to address first, I hope you see us on TV and that in the future, after informing the person in question from Television, which is addressed to the Assembly, there will be no more interruptions in the speech of the opposition MPs, and I hope that will never happen again. This is repeated because Serbian citizens only in the National Assembly, through MPs, primarily the opposition, primarily the SRS, have the opportunity to learn the real truth about events in Serbia. That's what happened today, and that's probably why these disturbances happen. I hope it doesn't happen again in the future. The SRS makes it clear to Serbian citizens that it rejects all charges of the ruling coalition that the SRS does not make the National Assembly work. Nothing in Serbia depends on the SRS, but on the authorities. Serbia's assembly did not accept SRS Deputy Minister Tomislav Nikolic's proposal to honour the Gas Agreement in the work of an extraordinary session and thus to vote on one of the important documents for Serbia. So much for the obstruction of the SRS. The only one who can obstruct the work of the National Assembly is the ruling position, or authority that interrupted the work of the National Assembly and for a month and a half did not schedule the session. The SRS deputy, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, and many MPs of the SRS and opposition, have asked a number of questions, to which members of the government and members of the government must give answers, because until we get answers, this assembly will not be able to continue work. If there is no answer, then there is resistance, dissatisfaction and evil. The SRS requires that it receive from the authorities of the ruling response regime, to establish individual responsibility for everything that has happened since the assembly's termination, to this day, and especially after the rally in the organisation of the SRS, which has been regularly reported, as well as a walk after the rally. I will not talk about the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, because there have been a lot of words about it, but I would like to refer to the citizens of Serbia and what they are interested in. Serbian citizens, as well as SRS lawmakers, are interested in what is happening in Serbia. The ruling coalition thinks it has taken power, shared chairs, and now Serbian citizens are not interested in them at all. They think Serbia's citizens are shallow minds, forget quickly and won't take that away from them. The ruling coalition is only interested in Serbian citizens when they disagree with their regime, then they use "democratic means" to beat up people, humiliate and arrest the streets...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1605	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1606	... And in some cases there was a murder, as was the murder of Ranko Panic. The ruling coalition, or government, thinks that because it is silent and does not inform the people what is happening in Serbia, and the media is completely in the dark, the Serbs know nothing. Serbian citizens talk more about your Sundays, about dictatorship, the humiliation of citizens, than about the European Union. Serbian citizens are interested in security, which you so kindly promised at pre-election myths. They're interested in a better life, and today they live far worse than ever. The Serbian people, unfortunately for you, have morals, personal and national identities, pride, dignity. The Serbian people have two of the greatest heroes in The Hague, the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj and my colleague, Dr Radovan Karadzic, two of the greatest fighters and heroes. The SRS will do a decent and peaceful way, by all means of law, to fight for their human rights and dignity. In the name of the truth and for the sake of Serbian citizens, the SRS will insist in its efforts to get answers to the following questions – who is responsible, who is the perpetrator, and who is the taskmaster for the beating of the MPs, Mr Vukic, Mr Maric, Mr Avramovic, Mr Pelevic, who tried to protect the innocent citizens who were at the rally with their bodies? Secondly, what is more important and without whose answer we cannot go any further, is who killed the young man, the husband, the only son, Ranko Panic of the Bridegroom? Was Ranko Panic killed by law? Did anyone from the government, I hear that there was Bozidar Djelic, who knows everything and, most of all, answers all questions, can answer this question as well? This can't go unpunished and it has to go all the way. What should never happen again can only be determined by who killed Ranko Panic and the punishment adequately. When will the government once admit its mistakes and begin to co-operate with the opposition? This current government...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1607	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1608	... In all possible ways, it humiliates, insults, lessens not only the SRS, but also half of the Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS. How long? The SRS calls on Serbian citizens not to bow down, not to fear, as bringing elite units to a peaceful gathering in the city centre is the result of fear of the current government. By all means, the government is trying to dull your national consciousness, to put you to death and to prepare the citizens of Serbia for the final act of surrender, dispersion of state territory and recognition of KIM. The SRS is firmly determined to help the international resistance to the dictatorship of the current government. The SRS, as Serbia's strongest political party, also has a political and moral obligation to defend the Serbian people and their freedom and dignity. God sees and leaves neither Serbs nor Serbia, nor Dr Vojislav Seselj, nor Dr Karadzic, nor other Hague prisoners. As a neuropsychiatrist, I'd like to say to the SPO MP that he doesn't speak terms he doesn't know about and doesn't know what they mean. The necrophilia is a psychiatric term, it is a very difficult psychological symptom, which occurs in schizophrenic patients, so it is not appropriate to use this term. He turned out to be very funny and uneducated.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1609	I'm setting a break by 3:00. [[After break, 15, 05]] We'll continue our work after the break. The word is Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1611	I wanted to speak to all those present in the O.R., even though there are few. I don't think that's polite, that it's not cultural, first of all, because we have one very important topic, and that's Mr. Ranko Panic's murder. The opposition shouldn't obstruct the work of the Assembly in this way, as I can see, since they're not enough in the O.R. I don't know what's more important, what's more important, what's more important in this country to Serbia than human life. If anyone can explain it to me, please come out and tell me, because, really, I can't understand that it's so easy to go through things. To all civilized people, to all normal people, to all people who have children, it is absolutely polite that this question is on the agenda today, and tomorrow, and the day after that, and that it will be on the agenda until it is discovered who killed Mr. Ranko Panic. What is very intriguing to me as a man, is it possible that the coalition that is in power, Mr. Dacic, and all those who are the leaders of the police and the resources that were meant to reveal this murder and that an adequate explanation, since I believe that in this room all normal people are and we could all understand that, in a month and a half, or already as long as it has been, have not given us a single sentence, except that, possibly, there will be an explanation, in writing form. I think it's catastrophic. You know, we fell a lot. The country of Serbia is on the verge of collapse. The other day, I got a call from a magazine reporter asking me what I think about the proposal of a former SPS MP, and the current State Minister, Mr. Zeljko Vasiljevic, to import women from the Middle East to get close to Europe and, in some ways, to make our single woman happy to Asian women or to know which women. I think it's unless it was his tasteless joke, black humor, especially at the moment when some people give themselves the right, discretionary right, to kill a man and not answer for it. I have to tell you that today I kill... I'm sorry, if you could just keep it down a notch, if that's all right. God forbid, any one of us can make this happen tomorrow. Today you can't kill an animal on the street, the law was passed, though, a little late, I think it was adopted last year, but you can't kill an animal on the street because you answer, and it turns out that in the country of Serbia, it's nothing. I now address as the mother of two adult sons, I address all women, first of all, mothers and women, regardless of whether they are supporters of LDP, DS or any other party in this country, poor, tormented and tortured. You know very well what it means to have a baby, to raise, to raise and to deal with a child. I'm talking about normal mothers, and I'm guessing they're here in the mothers' room treating their children like that. No matter how much you're in a hurry to go somewhere, or how long this is going to take, or how long the radicals are going to obstruct the work of the Parliament because a man has been killed, someone is in a hurry to go to their child, and there's a mother in this country who no longer has a child, and there's no tears. It's terrible, it's catastrophic. It's very hard for me to talk about it because I'm the mother of two children. Therefore, I ask you to think carefully about this topic and that fathers and mothers, that you all call and try together, regardless of the party's commitment, to resolve this issue. It's a great shame we started killing in the streets. Why was Alexander Wolf beaten? For what reason? Why was Dusan Maric beaten? Why Borislav Pelevic? Wait, what kind of people are we? It's a disaster. A Serb strikes a Serb, that's terrible. I ask you to get serious about this subject, completely out of your heart and honestly, given your children's perspective, think about it, trying to find a solution and try to stop what's going on. You know who Walter is, I shouldn't explain it to you, he said: we are slaves of the law to be free. No one is free in this country, because the law is not respected. So, the law doesn't exist, anyone can be killed at any time, run over, and no one will answer, because there's one system that doesn't answer to know what who did. So, now, as a man, as an MP, as your colleague, I ask you to get serious and not rush to see this topic over and over again, because as long as one mother doesn't know where her child is, which is why her child is missing... Because it went out on the street? Well, he's got a right to go out on the street. I have the right to go out on the street, if it's democracy. If the country we live in is democratic, I have the right to go out on the street and say I don't like the Democratic Party, or the Democratic Party programme. It's my human right and my right as a citizen of this country, but that's why you don't have to beat me up and kill me. So, seriously, it's becoming very funny this Parliament, unserious, and it sends a very ugly picture to that Europe that you want so much. I lived in Europe for eight years, I lived in America for four years, I lived in the Netherlands for four years, and it never happened that the animal had stopped someone on the paw, whether it was a dog or a sword, and it wasn't responsible for it. Well, my friends and friends, gentlemen and ladies, if you want to go to Europe, go ahead and prove it, report to us, explain to us who killed the mother's son, who killed the man, let us know at all times everything that's going on in this country, who's to blame for this, who's to blame for it, and if he's guilty, let him change. That's the only way to make order in this country. I, like you, want to raise my children in peace. I don't want to worry that if my kid goes to the Star Game or Partizan's, someone's gonna kill him. I don't want to worry that someone, because my kid's coming, is a supporter of the SRS, at the Radical Party rally, some bullet through his head to get through. What does that look like? Now look around, call out and think that, first of all, you're parents, and then you're MPs to this party or that party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1612	After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish our mandate to the MPs in the National Assembly in order to enable them to participate in the work. You have been presented with a report by RIK on the allocation of the mandate to the MPs. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate to the MPs, with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs. On the basis of the RIK report and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Board, as referred to in Article 27(2). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Sasa Dujovic, elected from the SPS-PUPS-JS Election List, and Dusan Milisavljevic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask them to enter the O.R. The word is Mr. Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1613	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, here we are, after a long break, back in the assembly benches, after accusing the position and authorities of obstructing Parliament's work from the opposition. Of course, it is quite clear to all Serbian citizens that this is a lie and that this is not about any obstruction by us from the opposition, but that the reasons for the unsatisfactory work of this parliamentary house can sooner be found in an unknowing leadership of this parliament. I don't like to bring any major criticisms to anyone at the beginning of my term and any work. However, the fact is that the speaker of this parliament, who should be the representative of all of us, the people who are in office and the MPs in the opposition, did not get the best in the first days of their term. What I object to our President of Parliament is that there is not enough hearing for opposition MPs, for their opinions, and that there is no capacity for co-operation and communication with people. You see, in the last term, this parliament worked and passed laws, there was an illusion that there was an enviable dose of tolerance between the position and the opposition. It is certain that from the stronger one, the greater one depends on harmony and style in one parliament. But let me get rid of it. We have been here for several hours pointing to some things that we cannot, as people, go through, which is that we are seeking responsibility for the death of an innocent protester organised by the SRS on July 27th 2008, and for the shameful arrest of Radovan Karadzic. You know, in that shameful act, one Sarajevo-based prostitute, who, unfortunately, is the president of this country, and one other fugitive from Podgorica, who has the capacity of a public prosecutor. There was quite a mix, which is quite surprising, and the minister of the military, so his role in all this was unclear, while all responsibility was halted and denied by the current police minister, which is, again, very strange. You see, we can't simply, as people, cross over the death of innocent Ranko Panic, who was killed in a cruel way. I'm free to say that he was killed in a cruel way. Someone said you shouldn't be dealing with necrophilia. I have no doubt that this person knows what the word necrophilia means and that he wanted metaphorically to express himself here. If we, who want to know who's guilty and responsible for killing an innocent citizen, who didn't use force against law enforcement, someone you can call a necrophile, then I'm free to call you cannibals, and you appreciate whether it's cannibalism or necrophilia worse. I think this other one is far worse. What I'm saying is why everything in Serbia is possible today. Today's session and today's march is not an obstruction. This modern-day standoff is a struggle for elemental human rights. We raise our voice here for freedom of assembly, for freedom of speech. If because of the speech, because of the appearance of the rally, to be treated in this way by the regime, the puppet, the Quislin, I will not explain why and how, there is time and for that, then there is no more democracy in this country, then we live in a totalitarian system where terror police should silence every opposition and free thought. Look, I'm gonna finish with one little analysis. An English economy, called Etkinson, may not mean much to us, pointed to an interesting phenomenon. At the end of the 20th century, there was a strange phenomenon in politics. The right parties crossed to the left quickly, and the left crossed to the right. What made them do that? They found common language in fascist forms of social and economic manipulation. Why? Exactly, from antagonism that should enable and establish between the ruling tycoon oligarchy and politicians and the rest of the people. Of course, the political struggle in such conditions, and see if Serbia, perhaps, looks like it, is about fighting for a new division of power, power and money. Then it's no wonder one of these coalitions is made by us. It's quite certain. Are fascist forms recognizable, here, in the event of the beating of this man, who had to pay by death, with his own head, the man who fought and who was the refugee, who lived to deprive him of his own country, the innocent, of the life of a member of the government? What does Fascists stand for? It's about revenge. So if you do something that someone doesn't like, he's going to punish you with an enormous punishment. That's what fascists used to do. You know, in Serbia, you kill for one German 100 Serbs. The man who participated in the demonstrations, who didn't fight the police, got hit hard and wasn't the only one. Here are the instructions of my fellow MPs as many as there were others. An attempt to kill MP Pelevic. The attempt to shoot her in the head with a bullet; if that bullet had gone into the eye, the MP Pelevic would have fatally ended up. With a few meters to shoot someone in the head, it's a difficult threat to life. In other words, the people would say, "That's ordinary savagery." Who ordered this savagery? We're asking to know who the perpetrators of these crimes are. We are looking for, as well as possible, from reliable sources, we know that the provocators who caused the conflict in Macedonia's street were inserted, so that the police would then be pushed into the crowds of protesters, innocents, who later were brutally chased and beaten. That's what we're looking for and, of course, until we get the right answers, we won't calm down. You see, at The Hague tribunal today, Vojislav Seselj wants to force a lawyer. The state of Serbia is silent, the justice minister, such as the minister, I don't know, there's no statement to report on these issues of international law. There's a Herzegovic proverb that says, like, "You can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want." Think about it and think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1614	Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, is already a month and a half of the public in Serbia asking two basic questions. The first question is who and under what circumstances deprived of life, or killed Rank Panic, and the second question is who and under what circumstances arrested the first president of Republika Srpska, Dr Radovan Karadzic? Something happened in Serbia that is much more difficult politically than the illegal arrest of Radovan Karadzic. It is a statement by Ivica Dacic's chief that Radovan Karadzic has not arrested police, or members of the Serbian Republic's MUP. If such a statement had been made, for example, by an English interior minister, French or German, he would probably have been relieved of office on the same day, or forced to resign. Only, unfortunately, in this and this kind of Serbia, the interior minister goes after the hand to say that one citizen has been arrested by someone else, not the police, and that he is doing the same function day and day. Ivica Dacic said, in some hazy language, that he was not arrested by the police but arrested by some security services. When he said security services, he probably meant the security-intelligence agency. The following question is raised: Does the Security and Information Agency have the right to arrest citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or should any other institution, other than the police, be allowed to arrest citizens in the Republic of Serbia? So as not to guess, let's hear what the law says. In 2002, the government of Zoran Djindjic proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a law called the Security and Information Agency Act. The law makes it clear what the Security Information Agency, so-called BIA, he can and can work. Article 1 – A security-information agency is educated as a special organisation. Let me remind you, special organizations in the Republic of Serbia are, for example, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, the Republic Geodetic Institute, and then those major agencies that you founded after 2001, such as the Republic Agency for Peaceful Dispute Resolution or the Republic Energy Efficiency Agency. If in the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute is allowed to arrest people, if the Republic Geodetic Institute is allowed to arrest people, then it is likely to arrest the BIA as well. But he can't arrest her. Citizens in the Republic of Serbia should only be arrested by the MUP, under those circumstances that are strictly prescribed by the Constitution and law. Furthermore, "The Agency performs tasks relating to the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia and the detection and prevention of actions aimed at the collapse or destruction of the Constitution of the established order of the Republic of Serbia, research, collection, processing and evaluation of security-intelligence information and knowledge of the importance of the security of the Republic of Serbia and informing the competent state authorities of such data, as well as other tasks of a certain law." Does it say anywhere that the BIA is allowed to arrest and arrest a man on July 18th, so that July 21st officials reveal that a man has been arrested? For three days, he is in some kind of detention, no one knows what and where, taking away his laptop and a whole series of disks on which there is material related to events in Republika Srpska, or BiH, between 1991 and 1995. Furthermore, "The Agency in the conduct of operations under its jurisdiction shall apply appropriate operational methods, measures and actions, as well as appropriate operational and technical means to ensure the collection of data and information in order to remove and prevent actions aimed at subsisting or destroying the Constitution of the established order of the Republic of Serbia, endangering security in the country, and shall take other necessary measures and actions under the laws and regulations adopted under the law." Question for Chief Ivica Dacic – if he was not arrested by the MUP, but arrested by the BIA, how is it possible that Dr Radovan Karadzic has undermined or torn down the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia? How did Radovan Karadzic, as a doctor and as a neuropsychiatrist, endanger security in the country? How did he deal with organised crime and crimes with the element of abroad? How he dealt with internal and international terrorism, etc.? These are the fields of work of the BIA. In doing so, the BIA can only collect data on these activities, monitor, and possibly listen to phone conversations, if it gets the court's approval, but has no right to arrest. Therefore, Chief Ivica Dacic should say who actually arrested Radovan Karadzic. If it's true that he hasn't been arrested by the MUP and couldn't have been arrested by the BIA, at least not under the law, because, as you can see, the Security and Information Agency Act doesn't predict such a thing, then the question is that maybe it hasn't arrested him by some foreign security service? However, he said – some security service, he did not say whether domestic or foreign. Did he get arrested by some kind of domestic militia, some kind of private detective agency?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1616	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1617	Is something like this happening in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, in the United States, to arrest a man, to hold him for three days, completely illegally, in some detention, no one knows who arrested him, and then to deliver him to the Hague Tribunal for whom a small child in Serbia is clear that there is no court, that there is no legal institution, but an organized bandit machine to destroy all those Serbs who during the 1990s fought for the freedom of the Serbian people?- I'm sorry. There's one more question here. Even if Radovan Karadzic was arrested by authorities, and not, the issue of arrest technology is raised. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, Article 27: "Every one has the right to personal freedom and security. Deprivement of liberty is permitted only for the reasons and in the procedure provided for by law.' Item 2 of the same article: "The persons deprived of liberty by the state authority shall immediately, in a language which understands, be informed of the reasons for the deprivement of liberty, of the accusation put on him, as well as of his rights and shall have the right to notify the person of his or her choice without delay of his or her lack of freedom." Radovan Karadzic has been disabled for three days to appear to anyone without talking about the start of a position he says – a person deprived of freedom by a state body. Here's what it says in article 1. The Security and Information Agency Act, which reportedly arrested Radovan Karadzic – The Security and Information Agency is being educated as a special organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1618	Nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1619	Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, I thank you. Since you probably, like all of us MPs, have received the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I will not give it to you at this time, but since obviously neither you nor your Minister-in-chief, Ivica Dacic, know what it says in the Security and Information Agency Act, I will leave it to you, so read it to you in your spare time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1620	The word has an MP, Zoran Babic, adverts the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is common knowledge that DS President Boris "Broz Tadic" likes to socialise and surround actors and, of course, in such an environment he began to deal with the directorship. The first film by Boris "Broz Tadic" was the formation of the government of the Republic of Serbia. That movie's called "Semafor." Of course it's from the comedy genre, and for the citizens of Serbia, it's black humor. The next film was an action genre, and in such movies the good guys fight against the bad guys, Mr. Milivojevic, and the good guys always win. However, in this film, and only in his first part, the bad guys won, and the good guy, the Serbian legend, the fighter, the intellectual and the man who created the state of Republika Srpska, unlike you who are breaking up, dispersing and selling Serbia, that legend, that man, the good guy, Radovan Karadzic was imprisoned. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, the director, but also another villain, Mr. Ivica Dacic, tried to give an alibi for many outstanding questions – when Radovan Karadzic, who kidnapped him, where he was held for three days and how and with whom did the great director split the $5m fee? The alibi, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, gave them threats to us, opposition MPs, via electronic and written media, very brave, very cochoperically, I must admit, I thought that today, when we report for word, you would push us into a corner, and when we talk about stealing, unloading and breaking Serbia, you would force us to kneel on corn. The third and, God willing, the last movie by great director Boris "Brooz Tadic" was horror. That horror was smiling, rolled into the same canoe, watching two new friends, a director and the first deputy. You, gentlemen of the Yellow, had fun on various beaches and resorts, while a mother was burying Serb Ranko Panic. I saw that Mr. Djelic also received a tanning colour, while Mother Ranka Panic gave a 20-day mention. Now you're rebelling when we ask you to tell us who killed Ranko Panic. We ask you to say and know that as long as you hide those monsters, but also those responsible for the famous command responsibility, we will consider you all to be co-executors, we will consider you all murderers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1622	Mr. Bozidar Delic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1623	The chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we should ask ourselves if it all started that 18 or 21 here in the Assembly, or if it all started much earlier. We had in this assembly and General Tolimir's case, we had a lie from the state authorities. When this assembly and its committees did not lie, as the largest legislative body, led to their logical end, then we had another lie since 18th and the arrest of Mr Karadzic and then, by nature, things started to happen. The humiliation of this congregation goes on, I'm already here on a second call, it's practically a second year, from the very beginning. This assembly and its president have not fought for their place. She's a transmission and she's doing as one of them asks. You see, BIA's director didn't even allow himself to attend a meeting of our defense and security committee. A man like that shouldn't be in that place for another day. But we can't provide that, which our colleague said we wouldn't ask ourselves anything in this congregation. That's what you should do, because you're wondering about everything in Serbia. You have to answer the question – who killed Ranko Panic? It is certain that we cannot move on with lies in Serbia. It is certain that we cannot go further in Serbia with the murders. The protests began immediately after the arrest, i.e. on our knowledge that Karadzic was arrested. I've been to a lot of these protests. It's not familiar here. We had a situation when the police moved firearms, guns, and the explanation of the commander was that the police officer was scared. In those days, I saw that there were a number of people in the police who didn't belong there. By the nature of their work, they can't be afraid. By the nature of their work, they, when it comes to mass, should react in a completely different way from the way we would react as individuals. That 29-year-old director, that's what no one said today, was by the state authorities. What kind of state are we when one state authority organizes an attack on another state body? The police were attacked by another state authority, by a state security officer, who staged the attacks. I saw in person that those who were shooting the police were on the run, at a certain door were waiting for them by operatives and protecting them. The protesters who fled and tried to enter the same door were stopped and told them – you can't come here, this is national security. Do we need a country like that? So someone in this country can kill, arrange to attack the police. I've been to all the places that night, and I've seen the cops get shot, who get hurt, I've been with their commander. I asked him – do you know that the basic tactics of the police is to isolate those who make a mess? He says, General, we've been fighting them here for an hour. But, I'm saying, you had to, since you weren't in the crowd, they were on a special street, TV shows you could have done it. He says we didn't have enough power. Then they used all these powers to put that group, as many as there were, a hundred, into people who protested peacefully. The media, too, have their own, not to say dirty, but an infamous role, has been repeatedly pointed out how hurt the police are. You should know, gentlemen, that far more people have been injured, and as far as police officers are concerned, the number is probably correct. For I have seen some people, and I say unto them, Why do not you go and be turned, and they will show you help? And they—it is little that I have been beaten, but tomorrow morning they should come to my door; for where I appear, they record and the police come again tomorrow. There was absolutely everything there. When I asked them, well, that group you fought for an hour, how many of them you arrested, they say, none. There's a large number of those who will be tried, they've been beaten, they've had absolutely nothing to participate in. They just didn't run because they had no reason to run. I've been to every place that night. It's true, I didn't have the kind of problem Wolf has, because all the commanders and commanders of those units know me. They were with me in Kosovo and Metohija. But I've seen a situation where the police, say, the guy who's going with me is kidnapping and, after my intervention, their commander has to beat his cops on his helmets because he can't reason with them. There's something to be done. There's got to be something to do. There's a lot of people in the police force who don't deserve to be there. They can't communicate with citizens in the right way. A special story is a gendarme. We've already continued the protests the next day. When we showed up at the Square, the police surrounded us, equipped to break down demonstrations. They said, "You are forbidden a gathering." We say, our gathering has been reported, we have received no written order. He says: We give you an order. We didn't agree to that. We said we'd definitely go for that walk, but they were scaring that people. Do we need the police that people are afraid of, or do we need a gendarme that no young man wants to see? Why? Because of the matches, but certainly, partly because of their relationship, their behavior, because they were the ones who were beating people and tens of them hit one that night. The gendarmes on these protests provided, by the way, only DS headquarters and didn't show up much on the streets. The brigade that was from Belgrade was correct in other days. However, we have again had the situation that before that one MP had received a pendrek. Why? Because he jumped to set himself up among some who would attack the police and the police. I was here by myself and I say, come on, people, explain how you can hit the security of the SRS that protects you? I'm reading today at the New Zealand Dnevnik that the president of the DS Parliamentary Group in Vojvodina has been attacked. Mr. Djelic is asking for an emergency to be found. And we're looking to find the unsub, but we're looking to find the killer Panic, find the one who shot Pelevic. No one can say that's impossible. You've seen how the police, whenever they want, can be effective. In these protests, we were recorded every day, with who knows how many cameras, on every side. We know exactly which unit was in which place, where the gendarmes engaged, where there was an elder. So, only if you don't want the truth, then you won't find the murderers of Ranko Panic. We are now seeking individual responsibility. No one can kill a man still allegedly wear a uniform and protect Serbian citizens. No one can shoot an MP, no one can attack an MP, not even an ordinary citizen, and I can't step on ten men who are on the ground. So dozens and dozens of them should be suspended, their commanders should also be called to account. If the minister, the police director and others are unable to come to this, if there are such relations in the police that they do not want to find those perpetrators, then there must be political responsibility, then the minister, the director of the police, the BIA, the other elders, must be removed from their duties, and the minister should, for moral reasons, if he cannot handle the police, if he cannot reach that knowledge, resign himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1624	Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1625	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really have no intention of plowing with anything spoken here. I just want to say that our interest is to determine the full truth of everything that's been going on, that it's important for this country that Serbia has police to protect citizens, not police to punish or use force. We can have a society where generals will not send tanks to peaceful protesters, but demonstrations will be the right of citizens to express their political stance, their dissatisfaction, to show some of their demands. We will continue to work on building such a society, as we have done now. That is why we expect that the answer to exactly what happened in those days will arrive very soon. We differ in seeing this reality. That's why I don't want to talk about my vision. I'm asking the competent institutions to establish facts that will make it impossible to look at the same thing differently. There are incredible insults, curses, qualifications from this pay phone. So, I don't want to take it out of the way, because it's just that every time a rude thing goes down, it's like that. Every time violence breaks in, those who are for tolerance get as far away from that violence as possible, so as not to be responsible or accomplices to it. I honestly want to believe that you are looking for answers to questions, that you are not looking for an answer that will satisfy you, but an answer that will be true. That's what you have our support for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1626	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we could hear that the police minister one day, who knows when, will do something about the event at the rally. The only question is why he didn't do it so far and whether not a month after the events mentioned at the rally and the death of Ranko Panic there was no time, or perhaps someone's truth didn't answer. According to our knowledge, the so-called On July 29th, several hundred members of the police brigade, the Police Administration of Belgrade – hundreds of members of the gendarmes, members of the Intervention Unit, the Public Order and Peace Department inspector, the Belgrade Police Administration, as well as inspectors and the uniform composition of the police station of Stari Grad, whose territory was held by the rally. How is it possible that hundreds of officers, members of the Intervention Unit, could not have ended two hours with hooligans, but that's why, skillfully and quickly, these same, peaceful protesters were brutally beaten? Some of them, like Ranko Panic, to the death. Who ordered the police to violently break up the SRS rally? Why didn't the police in the beginning isolate a group of wrongdoers, but attacked peaceful citizens? Why did the police attack the SRS officers and MPs who tried to keep the hooligans away from the peaceful citizens? More than a month since Serbia's citizens were brutally beaten, and Ranko Panic died of a blow to the stomach, and no one knows who the commander is, and who the perpetrator is, at least, not publicly known. The day after Ranko Panic's death, police searched the recording material from the rally for six hours, conducting an internal investigation. On the same day that Ranko Panic succumbed to injuries, a friend, who was at the rally with him, was invited to talk to the Mladenova police. He was told he would be called by Belgrade police, however, it did not happen. It is interesting that he argues that the record in the Mladenova police has been falsified, that part of him has been kicked out of him where he claims that Ranko Panic described to him the way he received a fatal blow. Why was Panic's friend, who also told Panic that he had been beaten by police, only ten days later? Will the police take into account the claims made by another friend of Panic, whom Ranko Panic said the blow came from a masked police officer? He probably won't, because, according to his wife, Ranko Panic, Tadic and Dacic, our fate is not interested, and Ranko Panic's mother asks Dacic what killed my son? So, despite the knowledge of the authorities, there is still no public record of who took Ranko Panic's life by beatings. Will the family, friends of Ranko Panic remain deprived of the answer for who took their son's life, wife, friend? Don't they have a right to know that? Or will someone in this country take away their right, as he took away their son, their friend, their husband? Shouldn't the citizens of Serbia know who ordered them to be brutally beaten and who gave the order? Finally, it should be recalled that police brutally intervened only hours after Serbian President Boris Tadic said the order would be known in Serbia. Tadic said - I am, of course, a man who always supports both the right to demonstrate and the opposite opinion, because we are a legitimate democracy in Europe, but here we will know the order. The president of Serbia has indeed shown that in Serbia, that is, he is seducing order. Unfortunately, Ranko Panic's family knows the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1628	The word is Mr. Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1629	Mrs. Nado, when you went out for this pay phone, you said that those who go out should be used with arguments, not to insult and respect the dignity of the Assembly. You don't do it first, because you mentioned tanks and generals. There are two generals in this assembly, one here, in your majority, and if you mean October 5th and tanks, then I'm the only one in Belgrade who had tanks. But you may still be dreaming of October 5th, the burning assembly and the burning TV. And then there were the victims that you caused, but that October 5th, you didn't see any tanks. You need to get rid of one of them, that fear. Perhaps your fear was very great, when even after so many years you still think of my tanks. My tanks were in the drum stream and, by my command, they were returned to my barracks, Stepa Stepanovic's barracks. No soldier of mine has seen himself on the streets of Belgrade, no soldier of mine fired any bullets, no soldier of mine has threatened anyone in Belgrade. So, it's a shame if you call the generals and talk about tanks on the streets of Belgrade, and if you're thinking about October 5th, and if you're thinking about me. I know it doesn't hit you on March 9th some year earlier, because then you weren't on the streets, then there was SPO on the streets, and then there were tanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1630	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just saw what the hypocritical majority looks like. We've been talking today and asking the authorities to give us information on certain facts, and then Mrs. Hope Kolundji waits for four hours, the time when the Assembly is probably looking a little bit more, coming out to say that we have their support in determining the facts, and that we all day know why we used the assembly pay phone. We, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, are all MPs of the SRS who have come out to speak, and so will those who, in the coming period, will be asking for specific questions all day long. Ranko Panic was killed. The killer has a name and a last name. The landlord has a name and a last name. These are facts, so help us get to those facts. Tell us the name and name of the murderer, Ranko Panic. Let the killer tell him who issued the order to kill the people on the streets of Belgrade. The autopsy report came back. You couldn't, you tried, I don't mean personally, you "yellow" and Boris Tadic, first of all, to convince some doctors to make a fake finding. Fortunately, they were people who cared about their profession and gave the right results. Ranko Panic died of blows sustained by the Serb gendarme's boot. It is a disgrace to you "yellow" and to you "red" who are today the power in Serbia. It hurt or it didn't hurt, it's a fact. Perhaps someone who has little conscience and pain, but unfortunately those who could do something about it don't think or feel any pain, or feel sympathy for that family. Why am I saying this? Yesterday, my mother, Ranko Panic, told me that when she went to find out what her son died from, she said the family had no right to receive an autopsy report. Do you think that woman in her pain would lie like that? She told the truth. We were looking for the next fact. We know indisputably that Radovan Karadzic has been held somewhere for three days. Help to determine the fact, if you say you want to help. Tell us who kidnapped Radovan Karadzic, where he was held for three days, whether it was supposed to happen in those three days, which he was already speaking publicly at the status conferences, to be killed by order of the American services, whether it was meant to be done by someone in Serbia, so you thought for three days whether to do it or not. Now, like, some faces you lie about when we go out here and when we talk. We're not afraid and we're not ashamed. What we're thinking, we're talking. If we say it will be cursed by whoever betrayed Karadzic and whoever killed Panic, you think it's civilized or not, it's your business, but you're hypocritical. You just listened to Srdjan Milivojevic when Mr. Boza Delic spoke here. When, I wrote down, I said, among other things – we have to do something, Srdjan Milivojevic tells you, Bosca Ristic and Stanimirovic – that we have to get bigger pendrekas, and the three of you want to die laughing. What are you looking at? That's not true, is it? Well, swear it's not true. They heard all the colleagues around, and now that we've said something here, then there's -- oh, my God, it's terrible, and when you make fun of Ranko Panic's death, nothing. Really, I don't know what you can count on if you're kidding. If it's a laughing matter for you, I have nothing to say to you – people, you are afraid of God. Srdjan Milivojevic, he came out, I would say, since he's been making very foolish remarks here all day, that we who speak here are smart people, thank God, smart, but we know that by God's will we can lose our minds, that we can lose our minds, but the fool has never found her.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1632	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Internal Affairs and the Police of the Republic of Serbia, Article 85, norms: "A mandated official has been authorised to issue an order to a group of persons to disintegrate if the group is illegally gathered." Be careful to interpret this member. Don't just interpret it so that there's a group of wrongly gathered there, and then there can be use; there wasn't a mob or a group here, there was a meeting of the Serbian Radical Party that had tens of thousands of citizens. So, only in case there was an illegal gathering and the police have warned the crowds if they violate public order and peace or threaten the security of the citizens, the police can take certain measures and apply and use the means of coercion, and that, above all, as the least, physical force. Second place comes the official bat, third – special vehicle, fourth – official dogs, fifth – official horses, sixth – water jet and seventh – chemical products. These are the funds the police could use, only if a public assembly was gathered whose intention was to endanger the security of citizens and order of the Republic of Serbia. What is controversial about you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party? Why don't you read the provisions of the Police Act? Any use of physical strength, rubber sticks or any means of coercion must be reported to the assumed elder immediately after use and within 24 hours at the latest. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, or the gentlemen who are making this coalition, now answer this question. It took you a month, and the legislator, this congregation, passed laws and predicted a 24-hour standard; whoever uses the means of coercion is obliged to submit the report to the elder responsible within that time. The elder in charge, directly, determines whether the means of coercion was justified or not. Do you have any open disciplinary procedures? Do you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, have the courage to go public, to tell Serbian citizens – we did not have the means of coercion, we did not have the use of physical strength, rubber sticks, chemical means or rubber bullets? Can you say that? Do you have the number of rubber sticks used? Every police officer who participated with his security unit had to know the same day, after all that had happened. I'm asking a question, i.e. I ask the Government to submit a report to the Assembly, this is required by the SRS and its MPs, who are committed to respecting the Law and the Constitution, first, which the regional units participated in, by the secretariats, from the Republic of Serbia, for the security of the SRS rally, which was the elder, from which the regional authority, was the manager of that unit that day, the list of all police officers who participated in the security, the number of reports on the use of coercion funds, therefore, physical forces, rubber sticks, chemical assets and rubber bullets. Furthermore, I ask for a report and answers as to how many rubber bullets were in place per individual member of the police force, how much was later examined and how much detachment was made, so that the authority elder could determine how many rubber bullets were actually used. Those funds are dangerous. A rubber bullet can even penetrate a sheet. That's not allowed. Secondly, the Law provides that a second, milder chemical agent can be used, not a rubber bullet, with two and a half or three metres. That can't be done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I request that the report be delivered and I ask the question, in the sense of the provisions of the article. In 225 and 226, who arrested Radovan Karadzic, in which place, how long has it been since he was deprived of his freedom to surrender to the investigating judge, where he spent those three or four days, and perhaps more, is there an order from a certain state authority that he must be detained, deprived of liberty? First of all, did members of the service, and what services, submit a report or an official note where Radovan Karadzic was found, perform a search, perform a photo shoot, and have they done dactyloscopying in terms of the dactyloscopic collection, have these been delivered to the competent court? These are very important questions, and we don't need to go over it. Ladies and gentlemen of the DS and of your coalition, this is where the board of inquiry needs to be engaged. You say - forming a group. If, ladies and gentlemen, an asset has been used to force more than three persons and in three cases, the elder must form a three-member commission, which will, in an emergency procedure, determine whether or not there has been or has been no abuse. I spoke to some of the elders from the MUP, they said – everything could have passed if the force of the gendarme had not been used. You can recognize, since the SRS deputy president and the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has announced that there is a video on this in the global world, where the number of rubber sticks is seen, where it is seen that citizens are being beaten and beaten. As an experienced man, I have worked for years in this service, I have not experienced this, that in peaceful citizens, tens of thousands of citizens standing, representatives of the SRS and speakers, at one point, ladies and gentlemen, there is an excessive use of these chemical resources and rubber bullets. There weren't even any conditions for that. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not difficult to determine responsibility here. In this service, honest and honest people work, mostly. The police need to be depoliticized. Individuals, whom I cannot say are honorable to those who killed Panic, who shot Pelevic and who beat the rest of the SRS and the peaceful citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have no place in police. These people should be removed, and those honest people who work in this service should stay, work and fight to apply the law and respect the basic human principle and international rules governing police work, and we all advocate that this Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms be applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's not hard for you, only if you're willing. If you do not, you will be complicit in the execution of the most serious crimes and will be responsible for concealing the perpetrator and the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1634	The word is Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1635	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward, first of all, for something that was the abuse of this pay phone to tell the truth about the MPs of the Democratic Party. I just can't understand why someone needs to invent, claiming that one topic is serious. And we think it is serious, and when it comes to everyone's individual life, it's precious to us, and none of whom, as far as we're concerned, deserve negligence. That's why the DS was against pointless wars, against the deaths of tens of thousands of unfortunate people and tens of thousands of mothers in black. It's just that it's not right to make up from this pay phone as anyone laughs at the subject, because it's simply not true. Again, I wouldn't argue with your version of the event, nor would I give myself the right to present my version of the event. We expect the competent institutions to do their job and get facts. Just based on the fact, we'll be able to talk about who's responsible, who's to blame, who's to be held accountable for. What's important to us, too, is we're not the police here, we're not the investigating judge, we're not the prosecution, we're not the court. We can't do that job. There are institutions that need to do this and it's not right to accuse directly of people sitting here for something they're not responsible for. At the same time, I don't think it's right to abuse the Assembly and prevent it from working on that agenda that is the citizens' interest. I'm not saying it's not the citizens' interest to determine the truth about what's been going on. It is the citizens' interest to establish the truth about what was happening, but it is also the citizens' interest to have this assembly working on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1636	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1637	I listened carefully, Mrs. Kolundjia, to your date 20 minutes ago, and now, it's all nice. Anything you say can be accepted. I'm just interested, because you don't want your own version or our version of the event, did you want to know if there's any version of the event? Were you interested, as did the President of the Assembly, in how do we get out of this? Are you still showing patience, even though you're starting to get a little nervous? Are you taking any steps to get us out of this? We can't get out of this by saying that we're going to go to the 1st point of the agenda, neither you nor us. You know how important what we're doing today is, otherwise we'd already been kicked out of the O.R. It's not my wish for us to talk about this for 10 days, nor is it your desire to talk about this for 10 days. It's not my desire to charge you here in the O.R. for what others have done. Do something. Come out, Mrs. Kolundzija, when the Prime Minister won't, when the Home Secretary won't, when a memo from the President of the Republic won't arrive, come out and take the obligation here, so say, "Mrs. People's MPs from the SRS, we respect the argument you made, or we don't respect it, but we see that you have an argument. I also want that truth to be found out. I now promise you that tomorrow at 13 o'clock, at 14 o'clock, we'll have a report here of someone who will file it the day after tomorrow at 12 o'clock, nax tomorrow at 18 o'clock. Is this gonna take another five days? We can do it, but I think we've said everything. We'll talk about it, everyone has their own style, everyone has their own way of talking, but we told you everything, you feel it, you wear it on your back now. We gave you that burden. You're responsible for what the police did, you're in charge of the police. You're also responsible for no one from the government coming here to tell you what's going on. The senseless letter of the MUP is an insult to anyone who can draw up two and two. So, the minister has designated eight men. I'm telling you, it was supposed to be done the night after the rally. Mrs. Kolundjia, not reprimanding us for what we're doing, we're not rebuking you because you want to defend something that, in my opinion, is indefensible; we're just here inviting you to tell us, because they loaded it on you, when we're going to have a report and when you're going to give us a chance to make that report known. We are not interested in obstructing the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and never the opposition, especially the SRS, had the desire to overthrow the government by refusing to work the Assembly, that is pointless. So, you'll be able to work on your agenda, but don't act like someone who can handle this radical rush, so we'll move on to the agenda. You won't last it. You'll have to treat us rigorously. I'm telling you, as a man with life's wisdom, if I don't have another one, as a man with a lot of experience in this room, there's a way out of this. The exit is someone's responsibility. Besides, the government exists to take responsibility. The exit is a report of what happened, who exactly took what measure, which shop, who commanded, who executed, who did what he wasn't ordered to do. There is a way out of this for both you and the Serbian public, so this never happens again. If we let you go now, and Zivojin Mišic was talking - hold the ox for the horns and don't let him go at all, if we let you go now, the next rally the police will kill someone else. I didn't mean pesoratively, I'd raise a monument to the Serb ox in the middle of the Terrace, because he was saving Serbia, while we knew we appreciated the ox. When people became oxen, there was nothing left to save. So, I really, as a man who wishes this Serbia well, not as a man who is disappointed because he is not in power, as a man who wants Serbia well, even if anyone is in power, I say, solve this problem. Five minutes off, somebody give you a promise that you'll make here, Mrs. Kolundjia, in front of us to say and then you're the one for us. For me, then, you and Cvetkovic, and Tadic. You take over. The autopsy report is clear, the boot killed a man. We need to know who was wearing that boot and we need to know who would take responsibility for our future relationship. Our relationships can be both like this and like this, and the people always prefer the opposition, even when it's rougher than power, even when it's gentle. Think about it. So, we'll continue as long as you want, we're ready for this debate, just show that you're ready. You had a month to get ready. You had a decision to make. If you're not, we'll keep going our way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1638	The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1639	Because of our knowledge and interest of all, it should be said here once – it is that today's debate was not in the order of the agenda, but it was in one imposed agenda of living circumstances, it showed one thing in itself, but it should be defined a little bit in order for things to be revealed. So, before this break was set, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, of two weeks, and then that famous holiday agreement of three weeks, or as long as it took, we had this famous debate about whether the opposition is blocking Parliament's work because it is rebelling because, at the very beginning, the proposal of 108 MPs is not included in the agenda of a special session, or because there is a circus in towns and municipalities in Serbia, which is causing unnecessary tension, which is why a session cannot begin on the agenda points, because it is indeed a very unusual and illegal matter. Then comes a new order of events, the session is interrupted, Radovan Karadzic's arrests and the SRS rally. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, imagine that there wasn't, as you say, any obstruction in that previous period, that there was a rally of the SRS and that the outcome of that rally was the same, that one person died, that dozens were beaten, including the MPs. Do you think the first day of the National Assembly session after that rally would pass by by discussing the agenda? No, you wouldn't. What have you been doing all this time, in the last 10 or 15 days, and after the rally of the SRS and these events, to this day, i.e. yesterday, when was the meeting of the heads of parliament with the President of Parliament? In the media, you kept talking about the need to unblock Parliament's work. You kept saying there was a fear of a blockade, because it was reportedly seen in the past. You have threatened to block Parliament, and I, as head of the parliamentary group of one of the opposition parties in Parliament, have persistently tried to insist in all my statements that we have no idea that we are blocking Parliament's work. So, me in a wedge, you in a board, or vice versa. Now it's quite clear why you did it. You knew you didn't have a solution to this problem. You knew from the moment that this rally ended, to this day, you wouldn't go out with anything human in front of us. You knew you'd have to have some reaction that first day, you were so smart. That's why you've been saying it in the papers, which is why you've been on TV all the time talking about Parliament's deblockation, because it's clear to every normal person that there's going to be some kind of blockade. I repeat, if one day it wasn't for what you call obstruction to the SRS rally, this day would have been the outcome. If you hadn't made a circus around the city of Belgrade, you wouldn't have violated Article 106. The Constitution, if you weren't in the chair's seat, because that's your agreement, that's your work manners, I don't personally call anyone, trying in a strange way to interpret the Rules of Procedure to distract us with some work hours after 18 hours, interpreting the provision of Article 84. The statute, if all these problems hadn't happened, this would have been a problem. Those who watch this transmission, if they're watching it, because sometimes you turn it off, they have to know that they've got two things to do. We completely separate everything that happened before this break came from today. This is something completely different. We at the DSS tried to connect both the discussion and the other discussion when we answered, using the opportunity to report to the Rules of Procedure, simply to remind you how it had been before, so as not to constantly replace the thesis. It cannot be someone who is responsible for the exercise of power, who has taken the obligation to have a majority in Parliament, to accuse the minority of not giving the Assembly to work. It's, in itself, abnormal. Our political goal cannot be to stop Parliament's work. My parliamentary group has a terrible need to wait for the next item of the agenda, it is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, not to vote for it, but to explain to the citizens why it does not occur to us, what is the problem, to explain to the citizens that no one has, as Boris Tadic has spoken, without any motive, thought of turning into an anti-European, because it is not possible. People don't act without motive. The motive must exist. And when in one show, Olja Beckovic asked Tadic, when he was visiting her, what if it drove the DSS to change its mind when it came to joining the EU, he said – I have no idea, I am a psychologist by profession, but I cannot get into motives, for me as a politician, only daily facts matter to me. No, there must be motive, and that motive has to be explained. We explained it, but whenever we get an explanation of that motive, it doesn't suit you, it's a special story. The way out of this problem is very simple. What we heard today about the requirement to do is really a minimum. Never in my political practice, since I was a parliamentarian, and before that, when I was not a member of the party for a very long time, I have not heard in Serbia that someone has made a more moderate request for such a political challenge as it is when it comes to this rally. I've never heard a more moderate request before. How is it possible that the ruling coalition cannot give a reasonable answer? I can't figure it out. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, do not accuse others of blocking Parliament when, apparently, it is not true, unblock Parliament's work itself to any of the methods at your disposal, and I strongly recommend that the method be composed of respecting the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, that the method consists in implementing the influences that parliamentarians, no doubt, must have according to their own executive authority, and that all together, and individually, by parliamentary groups, we do so to answer this question. How is it possible for someone to kill someone on the street, beat up, and seriously hurt themselves without knowing for a month and a half after that whether an investigation has been conducted or a criminal charge has been filed, even against the law? faces, for that? You don't have to file criminal charges on those who got a rubber bullet in the head. A criminal report should be filed by the police, so if the investigation comes to the idea that Serbian radicals were shooting themselves in the head -- excellent, but if an investigation comes to the conclusion that one of their fellow officers did it, as I think it is, then it has its own discharge. Let's do something, let's let people know it's happening. We received a letter today from Mr. Ivica Dacic, who was commented, in which none of what I'm saying stands. We are not asking Parliament to judge people, nor to condemn, plead guilty and call someone who is guilty or not guilty of any crime. That's what the court does, it takes, we know, but simply give some answer, say that some procedure is going on, that he has some purpose, that something is going on. From the letter we got, we didn't find out. There's been talk about it all day, and this is a completely pointless waste of time. If an opportunity is given, as is clearly given by the largest parliamentary group in this House, the opposition, to easily resolve this issue, take this opportunity and do so. In my life, in my political practice, I've never seen this before, that there is to this extent a hand provided by those who are injured in all this. I don't really understand you gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1640	Mr. Veroljub Arsic has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that for several months now, Serbia has been entering a real dictatorship. What happened on the 29th is just the result of a dictatorship. Let's look at and analyze the events before July 29th and how there was a rally of the SRS in the Republic Square. It came in that Radovan Karadzic was abducted on Friday, and his disappearance, i.e. the arrest, was not announced until Monday, but after the session of the Serbian Parliament was suspended. Why? Because the Serbian Parliament, however those who are now in power wanted to show that its basic task is to pass laws, a public speaker where public debate is actually being held. For the removal of a public pay phone, such as the Assembly, you can't say it's not a dictatorship. Let's take it one step further. All media, electronic, radio, printed, honour of exceptions, are also under direct control by Boris Tadic and DS. What's left to the opposition? The squares remain, the streets remain, the myths remain. How can he express his dissatisfaction? How can he say he disagrees with what dictator Boris Tadic is doing? How to gather people who don't feel the same way as dictator Boris Tadic, but in squares and streets? But that doesn't match dictator Boris Tadic either. No one can speak against dictator Broz Tadic. No one must think differently from dictator Boris Tadic and no one should do what Boris Tadic does not tell him. That's why the police staged, invented a conflict and attacked the citizens who attended the rally. Don't let anyone act crazy to say the SRS organized a rally to bring down Belgrade. They would not come from all over Serbia, with their bare hands, from Serbia's Krajina, from Republika Srpska, Serbia's Montenegro. We wouldn't be coming with our bare hands if we wanted to fight and fight the police and tear down Belgrade. The only culprit is the police. Don't try to show us they couldn't isolate those 50-60s or 100 hooligans. You say the police are hurt. I'm not saying that maybe it wasn't that, but I'm asking a question, which are the cops who attacked the women out of the blue, attacked the pensioners, attacked the press, eventually attacked the others who were at the rally, who could, but didn't resist at all? Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, the same ones that burned the Assembly on October 5th, which beat up those who don't think like you, you dressed up as a cop uniform and sent it to the people. When the dictator starts beating the people, it's not just a dictatorship, it's also tyranny, ladies and gentlemen. I noticed, whenever someone mentions the death of Ranko Panic and when they say that much of the responsibility is borne by you, some sighs, but not sorrows, but as if you're thrilled that someone was killed. Even when someone says that, you call them malts. My friend, you can wave, I've seen what you're doing. I've noticed who they are. They are the same ones who are in your ranks, but show their face to you, who sang in this same Serbian Parliament in March 2003, when the government of Zoran Zivkovic was elected, and only a few days before that you buried Djindjic. That's what kind of people you are. As you are, so is Tadic and do not complain about it. And you, gentlemen of the SPS, who sit here, but also those in Germany and in other ministries, are you really safe and convinced that you only beat those from the SRS, the DSS, the NSB? Are you sure about that? You also beat yours, the ones who voted 11 May for you. The ones you cheated, you beat up now. They may have been willing to forgive you for this fraud, but this won't happen now. Thanks to the team and the team there, in the Square of the Republic, on 29th, you are now in parliamentary benches and in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So much for you. There's been a lot of controversy about the Serbian curse. Gentlemen, are you afraid of that? On Vidovdan, you delivered former Serbian and SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic. On Vidovdan2003. You also delivered the Sljivancan. What are you afraid of? You are so sinful that you no longer need a single curse.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1642	Mr. Otto Kishmarton has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1643	Dear MPs, the respected presidency, we have repeatedly asked here who is responsible for the riots and murder at the July 29th SRS rally, where citizens expressed their protests and dissatisfaction over the arrest of Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic. The 29th July SRS rally had a quiet flow. Our speakers spoke, the people listened and applauded. No one thought to tear down Belgrade at that rally. People didn't even come with that intention. We have no drunkards, no arsonists, no destroyers, no one came here with the intention of causing a mess. If we wanted to bring down Belgrade, we could, not only the Republic Square, but we could have destroyed Belgrade, we have so much power. There was no riot at the July 29th rally until the police started beating their fellow citizens. The police put tear gas among the citizens who were watching the rally peacefully, in the part where I was, and that was about 30 meters from the stage. There were older people, children, so that tear gas killed those who didn't even think about making a mess. I ask the question – who is responsible for it? The only one responsible, not the only one, but the first, the main one responsible for these riots, for the murder, can only be the police, the one who caused these riots. Our minister, Dacic, the police minister, who doesn't know who arrested Radovan Karadzic, doesn't even know who beat the citizens, doesn't know who beat the press, doesn't know who beat the MPs, who killed Ranko Panic. If the minister is so uninformed and doesn't know what the police are doing, it is best for him to resign as police minister. It certainly does not exempt him from responsibility. So I say that the police minister is the most responsible and the first to be responsible, as is the first minister, he is the most responsible for all the events that took place at the July 29th rally. There's one more thing I'd like to say. If Dacic got caught in the yellow wheel to play, it's no good playing as others play him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1644	The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this in front of me is the latest number of the Greater Serbia list. On the front page are Ivica Dacic and Boris Tadic, people who hold both the knife and the cake in their hands today. All the power that the country of Serbia has is in their hands today. That's not the worst part. It is not the worst that the force at Serbia's disposal is in the hands of these people, but rather the appetites mentioned by gentlemen are great, so, thanks to their appetites, it comes to what happened at a rally organised by the SRS on July 29th in Belgrade. Because of their appetites, few, as our people would say, mix pots, so instead of the knives and cakes mentioned, they started using a pendrek instead of a knife, and the human body instead of a cake. Not only that, it wasn't enough for them to have the power at their disposal, but they also reached for the most primitive weapon, which is a military cocktail or a boot, or a police cocktail or a boot. Thanks to the military, or police boots, it was meant to show Serbian citizens the most brutal way of what these are, in fact, low blows. Thanks to these low blows, there has been the destruction of what one man has, something that God himself has given him, and that is life. Unfortunately, this time the life of the mentioned Rank Panic was extinguished. The citizens of Serbia, of course, and we of the SRS, have read about what kind of regime it is, that it is slowly entering the dictatorship and that is why all of this is present. What this regime is doing, what Boris Tadic and Ivica Dacic are doing, has long been written by Dostoevsky, who said in one place – where there is no God, everything is allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1646	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, all day in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about one topic, the violence of the regime in power on July 29th of this year, at a rally organised by the SRS, in protesting the dictatorial regime of Boris Tadic in Serbia and the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. I'm looking at your faces now, the MPs of the DS, especially. When it was first said that Boris Tadic was a dictator, you reacted in your benches, protested, you said we were exaggerating. Are we exaggerating when the regime in power, led by Boris Tadic, with the political, media and violent measures he is taking, is characterized by how we, the MPs of the SRS, characterise him? It seems that you are silently agreeing with this, or perhaps you are silent about what we MPs of the SRS are telling you about, what we are saying behind this speaker, because we mention and state a lot of facts and arguments about what happened?- I'm sorry. But right now, even though I don't have a lot of time, I'm going to start with something else. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as a member of the SRS, who respects the law, rules, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is quite rigorous, I will advertise not injury, but indiscretion, not just an article. 225 and 226, as well as Articles 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says in its first position, are the People's Messengers who are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, do I violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when I ask if they are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly only the MPs, or are they obliged and others, above all, Serbian President Boris Tadic, or Serbian President without Serbia, Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, officials of state and workers in state bodies, above all, think of the police, the gendarme, who beat unmistakably on the 29th of July in the Square of the Republic participants in the rally, MPs? They tried to kill Borislav Pelevic with a rubber bullet like this. Many of these rubber bullets were collected by citizens, participants in the rally, in the Republic Square. I personally watched these rubber bullets bounce away from the bodies of the participants of the rally, who fell down the sidewalks, and the people of the participants, and these rubber bullets that were shot by cops, cops, innocent people in the Republic Square. Now, let me ask you something else. Was the consent to use force, to cause riots and violence in Belgrade on July 29th supplied by the secret intelligence service, the CIA, American? According to certain information, this agreement on the behaviour of the regime in the government of Boris Tadic and the police towards the opposition, i.e. the largest and most numerous parliamentary group, the SRS, existed in this parliament, as their consent and organizations existed in the introduction of the emergency situation in 2003, in order to break the SRS, after Seselj was taken to The Hague, of course, thanks, above all to Zoran Djindjic, to writing the indictment against SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj. Did I, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, hear that you warned me that time had passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1648	Yeah. You're in fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1649	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1650	The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is one of the most important sessions to be attended by this assembly of the Serbian Parliament. I think this session is a line that should be underlined and that after this session, if we can find a way out, find the right answers, I can safely say that Serbia can really move forward. I suppose there are responsible people sitting in this room, taking care of their country and their people. I guess we're driven by common interests when it comes to this country and the citizens of this country. I guess one thing for all of us should be the Holy Scriptures, and that's the Constitution. Will the Constitution be considered the highest legal act in this country, on the basis of which laws will be passed and on which the competent state authorities and all citizens will act, because that is what the Constitution says? Unfortunately, we in continuity, I can say, for almost 20 years we have faced a violation of the Constitution, a brutal violation of the Constitution and the law. You see, criminal laws, or criminal laws, very precisely determine norms if something is broken; you steal a chicken, an egg, you know you're responsible for a serious or minor offense, or some crime. If you are violating the Constitution, that political responsibility, which should follow, unfortunately, in the previous period and also in this period, is not being expressed, so it has become perfectly normal to break the Constitution. Which is why we've been here all day trying to get right to that line, that line that no one should ever cross again. It's a brutal violation of the Constitution and the law. There have been times before, sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller, sometimes more drastic, sometimes easier, but lately, it's just amazing what's going on in this Serbia, what's happening to Serbian citizens. You all remember how it all started, I don't need to convince you. It came from the knowledge, i.e. the fact that Radovan Karadzic was arrested. After that, it was the rally. Let's stick around for Radovan Karadzic's arrest. The head of the DS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, said she believes that we are really looking for answers, that if that answer is really impartial, true, it will satisfy us, and that what we are doing is not just to find ourselves in Serbia's path to European integration. I'll tell you that we're just on the road she wanted us to go, or she thinks we should go, Hope Kolundji. Remember, the Defense and Security Committee is scheduled. In a regulated manner, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, we called for a session of the Committee and requested, among other things, that we get all the facts and circumstances related to the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. What happened? There's nothing left of your honesty and your desire to solve the problem. You wanted, at all costs, to hide these facts, to deceive both citizens and MPs of the Serbian Parliament. You came with a prepared statement, which should have completely freed those who arrested Radovan Karadzic in advance. That's true, that's true, members of the Defence and Security Committee know. I'll tell you what the board has adopted as a conclusion. First, people, you want to go to Europe, you want European values, so do you know about the Venice Commission's decision, or a recommendation on civilian security control? What does that mean? Well, it involves Parliament's control, and you've come with a prewritten conclusion that everything has been done under control and that, in practice, we have nothing to ask for security services, that they tell us whether the facts and circumstances we assume are correct or not, we have information that they've been done past the Constitution and the law, whether they're true or not. The first conclusion of the Committee was to ask for the opinion of all the services. The second conclusion, illogical, pointless, after this conclusion, that the arrest was made in accordance with the law, that everything went the best way possible. It shows your relationship, it shows you have no desire to solve the problem, to stop once. Well, this is our country. We should live in it, provide conditions for our children, that they live. How do you think we can secure them if we say so, we have accurate knowledge that Radovan Karadzic has been arrested 18, and only 21 p.m. has been handed over to the Special Court investigating judge. Where was he for three days? What will happen, I ask you, if it turns out that Radovan Karadzic was arrested, that he was taken to one house, not in custody, that he spent 72 hours there and was then handed over to the judge? What's going to show? Is it against the law for us to find out whether it is true or not, to find out who arrested Radovan Karadzic, to give us an answer to the simple question – why are you humiliating the people, why are you humiliating us? Arrested 21, and a laptop was found somewhere on the Battleway? Is there one of you here who believes in this kind of nonsense? There isn't. Should you be responsible for those who violate the Constitution and the law? We're just trying to get to the truth, because it could happen tomorrow to one of us, any citizen. More or less, almost all aspects related to the arrest of Radovan Karadzic have been carefully searched here by the pay phone, and do any of you wonder how it is that during the arrest of Radovan Karadzic both the Constitution and the Law? You know, the other day, some mouse from this, as this one is called to help The Hague tribunal, he says -- the state of Serbia has no obligation to help Radovan Karadzic because he is not a Serbian citizen. I ask you, has a state whose citizen is Radovan Karadzic been informed? What happened when you arrested Najbor, because the then vice president of the government was giving him important information regarding the security of the SRJ then? The U.S. Embassy officials have arrived within 45 minutes, as far as I have information, to try to protect their citizens, which is totally fine, which is why the embassy is serving. Who did you inform that Radovan Karadzic was arrested because you say he is not a Serbian citizen? Is that possible? Would you treat an Englishman, an American, a German, a Frenchman? This country, Belgrade, is full of spies who are destroying our country. There's no ministry where there's no one who's paid to do anything to put us in a position, as they say, to get us back to the 19th century. You think the fight against such a way of managing this state is obstruction in Parliament? It's not. It is an attempt to put a limit once and to say – the first thing, cannot be broken by the Constitution, the second thing, cannot be broken by the laws, the third thing, if they are broken, must be answered, because if you answered the questions we asked for Radovan Karadzic, there would be no such thing as what happened at the SRS rally. The members of the Defence and Security Committee will have the opportunity to see a movie for 20 minutes and a few minutes. We'll show you very precisely how the police acted. It's not our footage, so we understand each other. It's a two-TV video, one's a 'B92', the other's 'Studio B'. There's no man who can say they're TVs that are prone to the SRS. You'll see that the police at the same day, at the same event, react differently, quite the opposite. In one place, professionally, professionally, completely eliminates the possibility of a problem. You will see two groups of those saved, brought to Belgrade to do what they did, to blame the SRS for the collapse and riots. In the part of Therazia, at DS headquarters (to be clear, I advocate that any political commitment can be expressed in a way that is appropriate, without breaking the laws, but has no right to destroy, break or do anything illegal), police have, in three cordons, eliminated any problem, suppressed protesters to the presidency, or to the Serbian Parliament. In second place, on Macedonian Street, a completely opposite picture. A group of coming hooligans, some pulling masks, some scarves, and so on, slowly with the police moving into some charms, but all of this is completely controlled, not cross certain boundaries, but some kind of scenario, which is only later seen and seen. While they're playing some cards, you'll see, company...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1652	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1653	... Your time is long gone, don't worry. Time only means money to you, but when you get the chance to be trusted by some citizens. That's where the police do the whole other thing. Those who go into conflict with them do not isolate, do not drive them down to the street on November 29th. In Macedonia, from the Youth House, if she had pushed them down the street on November 29th, nothing would have happened. A group of 50 people. What's extremely important, everyone sees well, absolutely everyone. They say 56 officers were injured, and no one was arrested by those who went after the police, who went after the MPs of the SRS as well. You'll see a stone passing by Alexander Wolf's head. Do you think someone on the side of the radicals was hitting Wolfie? When someone doesn't have a brain, it doesn't take much of a chance to prove it. As soon as he opens his mouth, he shows it. There's no dilemma. These are the things that led the police to go against SRS MPs, against peaceful citizens, and, unfortunately, Ranko Panic to pay for his life. And that was marked by Boris Tadic's authority. What he is fighting for European values, in Europe long ago, has been achieved, and if this were to happen in any European country, not only the President, but more or less the full power would have to account for its people, to answer... I know this is a little longer... There are those who can't even help medicine. Not me, Mr. Milivoevich. Don't ask me to. I'd like to, believe me, to help you, but unfortunately, you are, apparently, a case that is difficult to help. It was all marked by Boris Tadic's authority. What is worse, it is the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, likely, intensive attempts to arrest Ratko Mladic, and thus inflict unmistakable damage and blows on Serbia, the Serbian people, Republika Srpska, of which it is difficult to recover. That is why we are giving the curse, not to you, you will answer, you have earned a lot already, but to everyone by the SRS who in any way tries to co-operate with Boris Tadic. He simply needs to be a measure that no one can ever cross again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1654	The word is by Mr Milan Avramović, advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a clear question, as a prerequisite for answering why dictatorship, or tyranny, is a form of DS rule. It's a very clear answer, because individuals monopolize government in the state and assume all functions, so the government is not founded right, but in violence. To support these facts, I'm going to give an example, which, during this rally, I personally experienced. Therefore, it is clear that the Police Act, which was adopted in 2005, and this provision of Article 15(1) of Article 1(1), provides that if the Government of the Republic of Serbia assesses that it is otherwise impossible to secure public order or protect people's health and lives, it can order the Minister, the Order, to restrict and prohibit movement in certain facilities, certain areas or public places. Such a legal solution is due to the application of our regulations to EU rules, precisely to preserve human rights and fundamental freedoms and movements, not allowing, in this case, the Minister of the Interior to make such a decision. In Serbia, until the adoption of the law, the minister was authorised to make such a decision. The government did not make this decision on July 21st. If that were true, it said in a letter from Deputy Secretary General Snezana Miljanic, who replied that the government did not bring such a regulation. To explain this whole story in detail, in order for Serbian citizens to understand, I have to ask the following questions. To remind Serbian citizens that, on July 21st 2008, after the announcement of news of the arrest of Dr Radovan Karadzic, police blocked the Republic Square by telling citizens who were walking the square or sitting there that they had been ordered from the MUP to prohibit any presence in the Square. That's what you, us and all the media houses have a video of, there's concrete evidence for that. Then a clear question arises, who in the MUP has set such a condition or ordered the police to react 21 in this way, when we have the government's regulation and response that, as a decision, the government did not make at that session? There were no attempts to hold any public gathering here to prevent, based on an undeclared public meeting, police members from approaching all present citizens and ordering them to move away from the square, explaining this by an order from the top of the MUP, and for that, there is also evidence through the video. On that occasion, before the anti-constitutional and illegal conduct of the police, none of the citizens of Serbia who found themselves in the Square violated public order and peace, in order to eventually obtain conditions for the ban on movement or gathering in a place where public order and peace would be violated. Therefore, it was a serious violation of the fundamental human freedoms and rights guaranteed, above all, as you Europeans insist, of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was brought to Rome on 4 November 1950. This is the right to freedom of movement under Article 4(2) of this Convention and subsequently the right to freedom of movement under Article 39. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so the minister, or the director of the police, or already another official who, possibly without the knowledge or order of the minister or director, issued such an order, committed a criminal offence to freedom of movement and residence under Article 133. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia -- which unlawfully deny or restricts citizens of Serbia's freedom of movement in Serbia's territory, will be punished for violating the member. Now I ask you, since I would like to get that answer, who gave the order to bring citizens of Serbia to the Republic Square for news of the arrest of Dr Radovan Karadzic? Is that the cop who forced the SRS to run in a rally without a mask through the tear gas that he fired himself? Is that the cop who made the cops run into the crowd not formational, but where whoever got here, as if it were the cheerleading of fans, not the police with the protesters? I'm asking another question. Since that evening, a dozen young men were detained in the Old Town Police Station, who will be responsible for their detention, when the district attorney responded that there are no basic elements to bring the prosecutor in, because there is no element that says they have violated public order and peace? Who's going to be responsible for being released three hours after harassing the police station without being able to get a glass of water? This picture went around the world. They called it an ultranationalist or a hooligan. Direct TV has used it to show the world a picture that there are no people in Serbia who think of their citizens. I ask these questions as part of all other questions. I am reporting again, according to the Rules of Procedure, to finish my thought and to explain why I filed a criminal complaint against certain Serbian police officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1656	The word is Sreto Peric, and let Vitomir Plužarevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1657	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, you've been preparing for today's session, but I must tell you right now that you are absolutely unprepared for this session. Your responsibility is great, because I am the 52nd People's MP who speaks about the subject and the subject is a consequence. But just now she was running for another guilty Mrs. Kolundji, but she's not the only one to blame, right next to you. And the other heads of the parliamentary groups on this side, which form a position and power, are also guilty. You knew about the SRS' demands and they're minimal. Yesterday in the press, Mr Dragan Todorovic said he did not ask for an answer for today's session of the Assembly, but that in a reasonable time you should answer the questions asked, and then we are working on the agenda. What, though, caused this condition? It was caused by a coalition, which I have no intention of talking about right now, but I have to say that it formed on principle - destroy as soon as possible. What and who to destroy? To destroy our country and citizens of Serbia. Do you think that today the people of any nation live something better in Serbia than the Serbs do? No, everyone lives very hard, but it wasn't your goal to make government and government that would improve the lives of Serbian citizens, but to destroy them as soon as possible. You heard that sad Dacic when he said she didn't arrest the police. He was told by Tadic – don't say anything, and he probably didn't know, so he says the police didn't arrest him. She told him, and that's what Mr. Ruzic himself admitted, that he's the only one from the SPS there, he's not going to ask himself anything, and we're not interested in that. What insolence of Mr. Ruzic to say – what are you insinuating so much, what are you talking about? Now Mr. Ruzic is not here to ask him a question, is that the child was born at that rally? And we would be proud not to talk about it, but only to congratulate happy parents. But a man was killed. We raise the voice to determine who killed this man, whose right it is, never to repeat it again, so that no one else can do so again. You've been distracting the public of Serbia for a month and a half, you, Madam President, and those to whom you've been keeping accounts and from whom you've been given orders. How did you distract, in what way? You said on the 21st of July, at 10:15 - 10.20, I don't know exactly how long it was, that you were interrupting the assembly session because of opposition obstruction, and today the 52nd MP is telling you today and you are silent and you serve here as a decoration. Do you think who's going to win here? The president of the SRS Group told you, if you try anything to compete with us, you won't succeed. We want to compete in who can do better and more for the citizens of Serbia, which is why they sent us here, first of all, but we can do some other things, although I would not recommend that you do so. What do you expect today? "I'll let them apologize" and you think today is the end. It's not over. There are SRS and other MPs' demands, which are minimal. And Hope of Kolundji comes out at one point and says, "We care about that truth, too." If she cared, she would, along with you, Madam President, beg you, and you would take off your absolute responsibility, if you had sent a letter to the President of the Republic or to the Prime Minister and said what the MPs, first of all, the SRS, would expect, and then you would come here and tell the story - I did it, but I am powerless, and I guess this congregation majority can change such an irresponsible government. If you won't, I know who will. Don't worry, there'll be a day when we'll decide. You tried to transfer responsibility to the SRS, as organizer of the rally. Do you know how many meetings the SRS has organized in the past 20 years, do you know that they've all been without any incident? No grass, when we made one lap at Andric's wedding, was hit in that great and beautiful park. Nothing happened in front of the American Embassy except that we achieved our goal, and at many other meetings. But here you've been making a mess, and you know you can't blame the SRS for that, because it's a neatly reported meeting, we've prepared ourselves neatly and didn't need any special security, as far as those who came, who called the SRS. You heard from MP Dusan Maric's statement that he tried to protect the police, but you brought the police, the gendarmes, and who knows who doesn't make everything a mess, and you succeeded. One human life has been lost, many are wounded. Someone here said there are people out there, cops, who are doing their job with honor. Every cop who's been hurt by those hooligans is sorry for me, and the kicker, I'm not sorry then, nor will I be in the future, if that happens by any chance. Now you want to threaten. No one believes you that any failure was made in the organization of the rally and that the SRS has made a failure. You know that's true, but you want to prevent future gatherings. We'll gather whenever there's a need for it, because there's no other option. You're just sitting here, and you, fellow MPs, and you're not thinking of doing anything, or Nadia Kolundji, who, when he comes out, would say he wants to contribute to solving this problem. No, she knows that if, along with Madam President, she were to make a request to answer some questions, she might no longer be head of the parliamentary group. She doesn't miss it. Raise your voice, show that we're here for the people, that what happened should never happen again and move on to doing what we're here for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1658	Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic, and let Vladimir Milentijevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1659	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from the SRS today have asked a clear and quality question and are asking for an answer. The answer to the same question is that I, as a People's MP, am asking the current government. Who killed Ranko Panic and for what? Who beat up the MPs and why? Who issued the order and who shot the citizens and the MPs? Who gave the tear gas order? Is that a tear gas or some new means that NATO brought you, and we were guinea pigs? What are the consequences after the use of this means? That rubber bullet is a big caliber and it looks like this. Who deals with hunting, and there are 100,000 hunters in Serbia, knows what caliber this is and what this profile of caliber and this size can do. It's very dangerous, if you know that a tall game goes with some 9 millimeter caliber, even rubber, this is drastic and it's not for comment. There were maybe 100 MPs at that rally. Do you know that you beat, choked and killed 50% of Serbia? It doesn't matter to you. You care about money, power, dictatorship, tyranny. Your personal and frustrated interests are more important to you. Now, we Serbian radicals have opposed these wishes and principles, and that's why you're opening fire on us. The media is silent or writing that it is necessary to introduce 100-200 thousand women into Serbia to marry our bachelor. Write about animal protection, and you should, but where is the human life of this innocent Ranko Panic? The Parliament's obstruction is being done by the ruling majority, along with you, Madam President, move a little bit from the scene, and you will see for yourselves. You bought time from five or six weeks to prepare for this session, September 2nd, and you didn't do it right. You didn't answer the questions you asked above. We will fight in the Serbian Parliament and we will seek our right until you come down from that 'yellow' chair. We're going to look for everything that's human, and you're still sending in an ether of messages, as you're sending in, it doesn't matter what the radicals are looking for. It's actually very important. The president of the assembly didn't do well, as if something wasn't right in the whole game called democracy. Both, both, and third, and all the options that exist today in Serbia aim to deceive citizens and rule through money. It's a new kind of democracy for you in Boris's way. We won't stop fighting. There will be more rallys, there will be more protests, there will be more of all kinds of fighting, which you have used as a democratic means. You didn't scare us. On the contrary, we will be even more energetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1660	Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic, and let Professor Milet Poscurica be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1661	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's debate has shown that Serbian citizens already understand who is obstructing the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In order to explain a little bit better, I reported to the Rules of Procedure for violating the Rules of Procedure in Rule 98, in two positions, where the 2nd position says - the President of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. The third position says -- the president of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases if the National Assembly concludes. If we exclude the 3rd position, that the National Assembly did not make such a decision, then I wonder why did the president of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly interrupt a two-week session? Is it in order to consult, unblock the work of this congregation, or to obtain an opinion? After two weeks, the National Assembly president did not explain why a two-week break was given, nor did she consult with the heads of parliament in those two weeks, as it is said today. That's true. The consultations that would take a four-week break were conducted with the heads of parliament and lasted a full six weeks. We have calculated that during this period, all the issues in question will be resolved, consultations will be carried out and work on the agenda. I am very interested in moving forward with the agenda, as the draft resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija is on the agenda. Given that preparatory actions were to be carried out and the first item of the agenda started, which is the KIM Resolution, that we made a series of objections to that resolution, the President of the National Assembly suggested that most of them, without any explanation, switch that point as the last, 15th point. I have the impression that this assembly and all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia do not have a more pressing topic than the subject of Kosovo and Metohija and its preservation in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, that the ruling majority did not understand and would not understand. Examples of what I've brought here. For example, why did members of the ruling coalition not come to the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, why did the representatives of the Government for certain points, in particular, of the motion for a resolution, not send their representatives to the KIM Committee, why did the representatives of the ruling coalition not attend the establishment of the Community Assembly of the Serb municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija, why did not until today the coalition in power declare and support the establishment of the KIM Community Assembly? As regards Kosovo and Metohija, let me also say that the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is to the continuity of state policy in relation to KIM, very empty, shrub and that the main lack and key problem is the relationship of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to EULEX, which aims to implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan and definitely recognise and form an independent state of Kosovo. I don't think that's how this assembly can apply, because, ultimately, when Mr Dinkic KIM visited, after the spontaneous burning of the checkpoints that divide the Republic of Serbia from Kosovo and Kosovo and Metohija from the Republic of Serbia, he gave support to those of us who live there. In particular, he said -- no one can make checkpoints and barricades between the Republic of Serbia and KIM. What about today's support of the Republika Srpska Assembly, the president of the Republic of Serbia for what is happening in Kosovo, and why are they now, in the first run, installing and returning cameras to checkpoints, crossing towards KIM? We expect customs services, which are no longer UNMIK services, to be installed there, but Kosovo customs services. We don't have any explanation and guidance on what we're going to do in that case, and we're determined not to let those checkpoints go back to the crossing to KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1662	Professor Pocurica has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1663	Ladies and gentlemen, if somehow the political combination seemed different after the election, because the election cycle and the presidential and parliamentary elections were the necessary consequence of what we are talking about today, we would probably be talking about a hundred days of successful, different authorities today. It would probably be a lot different in Serbia, life certainly saved, another Hague shelter would not be where it is. A lot of things would have been different if the political parties had stuck to prominent messages, political, their election campaigns, that those who were in the coalition with the 'yellow' party, which again stamped these events, had no speakers of their own, suggesting a possible change of course. How tragically it works when the changes in the political course occur, as indicated by the great discrepancies that took place in this organization of government, well, necessarily, they insert a message in the first place that the government is for the sake of power, for the sake of keeping from something else, that it is not revealed that something second or third, that someone gets rich, that someone's wealth is preserved, is not being questioned. How quickly the coalition partners agreed on the present, which together share responsibility for each other asking nothing about anything will not be what's ticky, painful, disgusting, which would be the subject of some kind of investigation, some kind of search. They've left it elegantly to future times, and we're waiting for those times to come. I hope that we will not be alone in this, and those times will soon come, but the time that has passed has shown the high unwillingness of the authorities to face the problems they face. How else to describe this rather than the fact of a political, verbal terrorism at the time of the election campaign, in which words were not chosen that, above all, the SRS was considered a red-black coalition, as a religion of the past, as something to be feared by the people. Just ahead, for the presidential elections, the actions to be shared, thousands of euros, and the anti-voting news -- whoever does not, who does not go out, will not have the right to action, so on. This political violence, which had no more measures or meaning in the brutality of fiction, has slowly turned into some kind of state violence, police violence, one apparatus, one institution over a people who wants to say otherwise. Fortunately, if there's anything left of a constant from a time that the current owners and their satellites often call for, that's the time before 2000, that's the possibility of you going out on the street. And these weren't demonstrations, this was a rally, neatly scheduled, to show the unrest of most Serbian citizens, with someone you deny to be our citizen, realistically and not, ending up where he ended up, in the sad and unfortunate way he was. Did we not have the right to ask why you think the people of Serbia are so naive that they believe that three days of hiding is a legitimate thing? Why do you think Serbia will be well, and those who send it, when it goes there and is condemned? What good will Serbia have if someone is convicted? Did we have a right to ask that? We did. Was the police supposed to be there? You've decided you should have. The minister decided, I guess, that Tadic too, because we don't know what a strange combination of different parts of the executive, or the functions of the executive and legislative authorities, if Parliament's president has to go for the opinion, to see what the best way to produce silence on a critical night of arrest is. The man was arrested three days earlier. Where's the moral question now, where's the end of the hypocrisis? What does that look like? Then the minister of police is proven to be a zealous clerk and official of his majesty dictator. We thought that after Djindjic, there wouldn't be someone so skilled and ready, and so average state values, so average in everything, or below that, and you see how he can and can do what he wants to do, and that's dictatorship. So this political dictatorship takes over the form of a kind of state dictatorship, the dictatorship of the apparatus, the dictatorship of the police. Why didn't the police stand between the hooligans and those who organized and had their own security, to be a buffer zone? Why did she step on the opposite side and push them towards the radicals? Why did the blood fall? Why is one life lost, and why are many injured? Finally, why was the police hurt? Couldn't it all have been different? So, the question of all the questions – why is there little knowledge about it? Why is it waiting today, right here, to officially request that the state authorities come out with a statement? Wasn't it natural, perfectly normal, that you wouldn't wait and not read the news or the show, we're very short on them, that if the session starts, we'll ask for information about it, that too. Why did you have to officially get it here as a request? Why such a humiliating multi-species letter from the minister of police? What does that mean, the police minister has no control? Then let him resign. Doesn't a minister of police, within the hierarchy structure, listen? More nigger information for him. What did the mission do? Is this about keeping yourself better? Or, perhaps, to look after others? What's this about? What's the price of this coalition? Why is she finally shaped? Let's ask that key question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1664	Mr. Professor, you've been talking for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1665	Of course, here, I'll follow the level of discussion of those who were before me and I'll finish, see that it's time to interrupt the presentations in which specific questions are asked. So many questions have been raised. The government has not shown an effective performance of its function, the government has shown a marked incompetence and, finally, a terrorist act that will have to be investigated. Here, in the interest of the fact that any more of the radicals come for a pay phone, I'll interrupt. There are a lot of questions to ask this incompetent government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1666	The word is Mr. Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. When the Assembly was interrupted, i.e. When the president interrupted the assembly, I wondered why and I didn't understand until the moment I heard that Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic was arrested. That could have been said immediately, but most likely because of all these turmoils so far as the UN tribunal is concerned and, in Serbia at all, it should not have been presented at that time. Here, after more than 40 days, the same thing happens. We don't know how Radovan Karadzic was arrested, who arrested him, and we're looking for information about everything that happened at a rally organised by the Serbian Radical Party. Radovan Karadzic was arrested; believe me, man, as much as he defended his people, he also defended citizens who are other religions, i.e. Islamic. Thousands of Republika Srpska citizens have defended him and have remained to defend both Serbia and Republika Srpska, because they know that in those areas they can only survive if they are in a community with Serbs. What it was, it was, but we are looking for an answer as to why Radovan Karadzic was arrested. After everything that's been going on in The Hague, I.E. After the shameful verdict of Naser Oric and Ramush Haradinaj, you should have waited to see, you should have been a little more constructive, and because of everything and because of 50% of the citizens who think differently from you. Radovan Karadzic will defend himself, as he will defend himself and as Dr Vojislav Seselj has already defended himself. What's interesting is that you'll probably tell us whether tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, you have to do it in some way, because there's going to be sessions like this so far, because it's going to be public with everything that's happened to 29. The 29th rally was organised as a revolt over the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. You know, I don't want to talk much, because my colleagues, here, for eight hours, talk about why we act like this in this House. I seek responsibility, first of all, of the president of Serbia, for the death of a young man who was supposed to live, Ranko Panic. Life has been lost, and I was, as we, members of the Islamic religion say, in today's day, i.e. at the funeral, and I saw how angry there was in all the people who were at that funeral. You have to understand that we're only looking for responsibility for those who did it. How to look at your mother, how to look at your wife, how to look at all those people who came to escort our late Rank Panic? What we need to understand, both you and us and everyone, is that this side is destroying Serbia's reputation in some way. Believe me, there is someone who will defend Serbia's reputation, it is the SRS and Dr Vojislav Seselj. What I have to tell you is for the public. A minister, but a Serb, says Ratko Mladic is turning himself in. Here, I say as a Muslim that Ratko Young never gives up. Let him wait another month, a government will come that will not arrest Serbian citizens and hand them over to The Hague tribunal. What I must mention is that in this month it is post Ramadan and, believe me, every day I will pray to God that the sooner Dr Vojislav Seselj from The Hague tribunal, Radovan Karadzic and all the prisoners currently in The Hague casamat. Like my esteemed colleague Natasha, I say, lived Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1668	The word is Mr. Gojko Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1669	Here, today, all day round the same question we are trying to get to the truth and those who are able to come out with the truth, to help the congregation turn to work that should be turned around and, at the end of this day, see wonders, and those who are in a position are encouraged and come out and they are for a pay phone and they are beginning to convince us how they want us, too, to see the truth, to see the truth. Mrs. Kolundjia, I might believe that you want the truth and that we hear the truth, but you have a much greater opportunity for the truth to see the light of day. It could have happened before. We wouldn't have to spend all day like this if you had wishes and desires, a ruling position; however, with you there is no such thing as will. After Radovan Karadzic's arrest, the opposition has nothing left but to organize and go out on the street. The opposition goes to the streets when there is no opportunity to go public, to find out the truth about what is going on in the country, since you have seduced a total informative darkness in Serbia, which is not remembered even from a time when television is called the Bastille. Here, now we have an even bigger media darkness and then there's no other option, so we went out to tell the truth to the people, at least what we know was happening around the arrest. We wanted to express our peace of mind and protest, to show each other the face of Serbia, not what you wear, that Serbia thinks and thinks differently. If you wanted the truth, you wouldn't stop us from it, you wouldn't organize it, and you wouldn't want to show all the participants. I believe that if there were other defined people, not only Serbian radicals, at that rally, you wouldn't try to break those demonstrations, prepare for the breaking of demonstrations, show the Serbian Radical Party as a destroyer, and make mistakes in all your budgets and organizations, or, perhaps, on purpose, to get to the blood and go one young life. Now you're trying to get out of all this. I'm surprised by the SPS representatives. Today, Mr. Ruzic comes out and accuses us of not interrupting the session when Slobodan Milosevic was arrested. Mr. Ruzic, you are not as young as you look, when Slobodan Milosevic was arrested, I did not notice you in front of that villa "Mir" that you are walking around that night when Slobodan Milosevic was arrested. Those who walked, tried their bodies to prevent the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic, and today they are tried and prosecuted, and you are with those who prosecute, who accuse together, in power. I would like you to bring, at a conference, or anywhere, those who protected the bodies of Slobodan Milosevic, to say whether they support your policy and whether they support the kind of authority that you are in. More of the behavior of this government reminds me of, as you called it, the '90s of darkness, 'totalitarian regime, forces of darkness', I don't know all the expressions you used, more of that statement by Mr. Gelbard, the American ambassador, when the presidential elections were stolen, when more voters voted in Kosovo and Metohija than in the election lists. Then Mr. Gelbard went on TV, on Studio B and said, "All funds against Serbian radicals are allowed and even tanks." Perhaps you remembered these tanks today when they were invited to go to the SRS. Perhaps you too wanted to take the tanks out, so you remembered that your fine ministers, who destroyed the JNA, the Yugoslav army, are now destroying Serbia's army thoroughly; they would have brought out tanks, but they were gone, someone stole them; they were well-guarded, they were well-managed by the Army, so they went to waste. You can't do tanks like that anymore. Your desire and desire remind me more of those times than these of yours. I think with a lot of irony, you said you wanted the truth. The truth can always be expressed and brought to the public, the opposition is never able to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1670	The word has Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic and it will be the last speaker for today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 after Mr. Dimitrievich's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1671	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 27 and Article 98. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of Article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Madam President, on July 21st, you interrupted a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and gave an explanation, calling for Article 98, which says the president of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations, but also obtain opinions. That break lasted a month and more. So does it take a month to get an opinion? I'm sure he didn't. The point is, there's something else. But as all events have their own chronology, it's your turn to explain this chronology. So you started immediately with the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, from your appointment, from the first laws we passed here, in the Assembly, from the Law on the Selection of Government and the Law on Ministry. Do you remember that circus when we asked you how and where it says in the Constitution that there was the first Deputy Prime Minister? You didn't have the answer to that question. How is it and where does it say in the Constitution that there is a 'golden voice'? It came to this point that at no time did it know how many ministries we had, whether 23 or 24. The amendment that was put into the regular procedure was lost, so it cannot be multiplied from 9 to 17 o'clock in the afternoon. That's how it started. It's a state of mind in Serbia. It's a state of haughtiness, a violation of key laws. So you didn't have an answer to all these questions. As I said at the beginning, all events have their own history. One thing has appeared in Serbia before and after the elections, and this is the new form of the dead box. These deadlocks were published in the press, so in the media, both in print and in electronics. The dead boxes were called fearing the people, so the people were afraid to return to the '90s, and the people were afraid of isolation in isolation itself. The dead boxes you reactivated were 50 years, 1953 and 1954. Some of your MPs might tell you very well about these deadlock boxes, as is the chairman of the DS Political Council, because he knows that phenomenon very well. But the essence of the questions we asked you, what we insisted on, is – what happens to Serbia's state policy? Why am I saying this? Because I'm going to quote you article 124. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and he says, "The government is responsible to the National Assembly for the Policy of the Republic of Serbia, for the enforcement of laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and for the work of the authorities of the state administration." So when we asked the question -- on what basis are the ambassadors returning to the European Union countries, that is, the change of state policy, was an unmistakable answer. On the occasion, I do not know how the Prime Minister expressed himself on this, on 28 August 2008, the Eulexa Recomposition, said: "and not only should we engage, but that what we agree will be converted into some resolution that will be confirmed by the Security Council." Has the Prime Minister submitted a report to the National Assembly, received consent from the National Assembly for State Policy Change? That's the essence of the story. The state of the spirit in Serbia remains such that people are arrested, and when the question arises who, when and where, on the Security Committee, there is no answer. The police minister says the police haven't arrested, the BIA chief doesn't appear at that session of the assembly board, the chief of the VBA doesn't attend the meeting of the Security Committee. So we don't know who, or when, or where. The state of the spirit in Serbia, in addition to a peaceful period, of one pacification of a political scene, is such that people are fighting in Serbia today, that MPs are being beaten, that they are being shot at by MPs and that the mittins end with a fatal outcome. So it's a state of mind in Serbia. What's this about? To dust the people of Serbia into the eyes, to change state policy and to alienate some of its territory from entering the European Union. So that's the essence of your action. As everything has its end, so will this policy have its own end, and very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-02-0.u1672	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of your statements and demands, and following talks with Minister Ivica Dacic, I would like to inform you that the minister has informed us that the task force formed by the MUP is still working, but that his report on all facts and circumstances under which there has been an injury of citizens and police officers during the rally organised by the SRS on 29 July 2008, will be completed by the end of this week. After that, the most stringent measures will be taken against all those who have exceeded their powers. In connection with the death of Ranko Panic, investigative authorities have already started all the shops and the case has been opened with the investigative judge, to whom the report will also be delivered. It's information that will be in writing tomorrow delivered, but I just want you to have it tonight. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 174 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the extension of work. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called for this session to be attended by: Milica Delevic, Assistant Foreign Minister Ksenija Milivojevic, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration Tanja Miscevic, Director of the Office for European Integration and Vladimir Medjak, legal adviser at the European Integration Office. We move to the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE Stabilisation AND ASSOCIATION AGREEMENTS AND THE TRANSITION OF THE TRADE AND TRADE CONTRACTIONS BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (Common Single Search) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Todorović. Here you go.
