ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11350	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National Assembly Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic called for today's session to be attended by members of the government and Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the finance ministry, Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Office. We continue to work on the search in detail of the 1st item of the agenda - draft law on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia I am informing Members of today's work to continue at 12:00 hours because the session of the Finance Committee is under way, which discusses amendments tabled on the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009, and the session of the Legislative Committee is scheduled to begin at 10:30. Also, at any moment we expect the government's opinion of the amendments that will be submitted, which will take some time to multiply and share with the MPs. Thank you. [[After break – 12.05]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. Annually, with the accompanying documents (specificities) The budget discusses the proposals for a decision to give consent to the 2009 financial plans (a) of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, (b) the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and (v) the National Employment Service. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Radovan Radovanovic, Riza Halim, Olena Papuga, Milutin Jelić, Radoslav Mojsilović, Srdjan Spasojević, Aleksandra Janković, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Mladen Grujic, Miroslav Markić, Velimira Tabaković, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Antic, Zoran Mašić, Oto Kišmarton, Saša Maksimović, Predrag Mijatović, Jelena Budimirović, Vučeta Tošković, Stefan Knković, Tomislav Nikolic, Ljiljana Miladović, Oto Kismartonović, Predrag Mijatović, Božidar Delić, Dragan Babić, Milan Knežić, Milić, Miljan Radjan Radić, Miljanažić, Milić, Miljavić, Miljavić, Milić, Miljan Žažić, Milić, Dragažić, Dragažović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Dragžić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag Žović, Dragžić, Drag Žažić, Radić, Dragažić, Dragažić, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, The amendment was written by the MPs: Radovan Radovanovic on Article 5, Section 16 and Section 5, point 1), Milan Lapčević on Articles 1, 2 and 5. (submitted on 18 December 2008 at 20.45 minutes), Milan Dimitrijevic is not a member of 5, sections 1 and 58, Milica Radovic to Article 1. (submitted December 12th) and Olena Papuga on Article 5th division 26. (December 15th). On the basis of Article 146, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected the amendment of the People's MPs, Mom Colakovic, to Articles 1 and 25 and Konstantin Arsenović, to Articles 3 and 5. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee held meetings and reports from these sessions will be delivered to you or divided during the break, and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted is in the copying process. So far, all we have is an estimate that after copying around 3:00, 15.30 p.m., possibly 1600 hours will arrive, as it is extensive material. That's why I don't read in the script that's scheduled for this session, where it says we've received reports, because we haven't. Since we have carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. If the presidents of the parliamentary groups agree that this time until the material arrives, if you don't mind. The president of the National Assembly instructed that the session be postponed until 12.00 hours. This new possible delay must be in the arrangements of both the chairman and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I don't think I should remind you of the Rules of Procedure, you know him very well, that you have demonstrated the entire time leading meetings of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. You know we have to have the government's opinion. The fact that you haven't made it by now, you had a day off yesterday, you could have done all that, and I'm asking you to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. Another thing, I remind you again of something that should finally become a practice for you. You start doing something, you see that you can't, and then you say, let's make a deal. You come in after 45 days late with the draft budget, you start discussing the budget, you see that there's been a lot of amendments, and then there's the hook, you call the president, the minister -- let's make a deal. We want to make a deal, but before, not after, not when you hit your head against the wall, you realize it can't go on, and then you want to make a deal. Get serious. Don't deceive Serbian citizens anymore. You don't want to solve these problems. You're not meant to bring the budget. You're comfortable with the temporary funding. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia. You DS are the most responsible here, I call you. You are responsible because the budget will not be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, because you are making it clear all the time that you are fit for temporary funding, because it will continue within the funds of the previous quarter, so you will spend this money nicely, but you will say so - there are no pensions because the opposition MPs, above all, have been conducting the obstruction. You're going to go out for 75 hours in the Rules of Procedure, and you're going to say there's no social benefits, there's no this, there's no that, and that's all the responsibility of the SRS. When we ask you a simple question -- was the obstruction of the SRS at the government, until November 1st when you were to adopt it, you adopted it on December 7th? Did the MPs of the SRS report to the Rules of Procedure as well? No, they're not. If you had done this, if you had submitted the draft budget on December 1st, you would have the legitimate right to make your remarks, this is not how you do it. You can do whatever you want, but you don't just have the right to do it by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11353	The review of amendments and the opinion of the Committee and the Government treats Article 147, which speaks of both the government and the committees being obliged, which is why there was a break. I repeat, before I give you my word, that the respect of Article 147 is binding, there would be no pause if it wasn't. There is a Article 139, paragraph 5, which allows the Assembly to work and if the Committee and Government have not arrived, with information that it is a technical part of the work, not an examination of the amendments. That's why I started the session at 12:00. So it's a technical part of the job. National MP Nada Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11354	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 101. The Rules of Procedure and I would like to say, as far as the parliamentary majority is concerned, it is very important for us to adopt the budget by the end of the year, to talk about that we do not want this budget adopted simply not to be correct. Of course there are remarks that the budget has arrived late and we haven't even disputed it. What everyone could see and understand is the reasons why this budget was delayed. Among these reasons, there are many valid reasons. There are reasons that are a question of harmonising all needs with what are restrictions, which are undeniable because of a crisis that is evident. If you don't think that's enough reason, it's your right and we don't want to compromise. I just want to tell you that it is the citizens' interest to have this budget adopted by the end of the year. That is why government representatives have also shown, as well as representatives of opposition political parties, full readiness, co-operated and trying to bring the demands and amendments of opposition parties into line with what is possible in the budget, showed readiness to agree on the result, which is the adoption of the budget by the end of the year. The only parliamentary group that didn't want it was the SRS. So I really don't think it's correct to take responsibility for those who want this budget adopted, and the vast majority of MPs in this assembly want this budget adopted by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11355	National MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11356	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I'm not quoting Article 147 because of you. I know you know him well, but I have to because of Mrs. Kolundjia, because you've been trying to replace the thesis all along, Mrs. Kolundjia. That you express your willingness and think when you say for a pay phone that that's enough reason to believe you. I don't doubt you, perhaps even a large number, perhaps all MPs of the DS -- that they really do, but for this is the government, the one you chose with your votes. You can go down here on your head, but if they don't get the budget on November 1st, they bring it to the 7th, and we get it on December 10th -- what can we do here? What kind of willingness do you express, what willingness to do that, and that's not appropriate to your government at all? Your government doesn't fit your willingness at all, because they decided to go on temporary funding and show it. You're doing reverse-order moves all the time. If that government had any real intention of negotiating with the opposition, if it really wanted to adopt the budget, it would have taken some steps. Okay, my people, this isn't the first time an assembly has worked with the opposition. It's since 1990, since the inauguration of a multi-party -- there's always been an opposition. We wouldn't have moved away since 1990 because the opposition would have obstructed all along - so most can't work. It's not true, but this majority is absolutely incompetent. Take a look at today's newspaper and the new shooting of ministers within the government, within your coalition. And you think the citizens will believe you - that you have a willingness. Maybe, I don't doubt your personal willingness, but this government has no readiness and it proves it all the time. Now you blame us and say - we're ready, and you're not ready. Article 147 says - the legislator, the committee responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider amendments submitted on the draft of the law before the meeting of the National Assembly and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. Now watch this logic. You're ready, and we're not ready - we're not ready to break the Rules of Procedure. Are you ready to break the Rules of Procedure? Are you ready to break the Rules of Procedure, tell the citizens of Serbia - here we are ready to break the Rules of Procedure, because the supposed budget should be adopted? We're not ready. We are not prepared to break neither the Constitution nor the law nor the Rules of Procedure. Start working in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure and many things will be settled on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11357	The People's MP, just to avoid the injury of member 147, and since we didn't have any information at 10 o'clock whether the government had considered all the amendments at the morning session and because of the scheduled session of the Finance Committee, a break of up to 12 o'clock was set. Starting at 12 hours, I said that the secretary was informed that the amendments were considered and that it was a technical part of the work of multiplying materials, so there was no point in violating Article 147. Finally, I said that we must agree that we will wait technically, without breach of Article 147 and with respect to Article 139(5), which reads - unless the committees deliver reports, or the Government considers the draft law, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions, which I consider to be only a possibility in the Rules of Procedure, but gives space to work, without violating any provision of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bozidar Delic asked for the same word, right after the letter of Ms. Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Hope Kolundji here said it was evident that the budget was delayed. It is very important to tell the public how late the draft budget was. The draft budget wasn't four days late, it was 40 days late. If he had been late for four days, so we could also tolerate it, but if he came to parliament from 40 days late, if he came to parliament only seven days before the budget calendar, December 15, when the budget was to be adopted in parliament - then I really don't see who, except for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we can put on responsibility why the budget is obviously not due until December 29th at midnight, because it's the deadline in which we work in a regular session. It has been said these days that representatives of some ruling coalition political groups say we will work on the 30th. We can do thirty first and first, but the constitutional deadline and the business -- when this regular session has to end -- is December 29th at midnight. Now the question to which someone should give us an answer, when we are in this grip with time to adopt the budget, that is, to discuss the amendments -- why the government hasn't since Wednesday morning, and Wednesday at 10 o'clock was the last time we had to deliver all the amendments, and the amendments came and all the MPs got them, what has the government been doing since then at 10 o'clock today that they haven't been able to determine, that is, to give an opinion on the amendments submitted? That story - technically, says Mrs. Komic - is a matter of technical printing, i.e. multiplying the government's opinion, we cannot believe it. Until we get that, we don't need that order to do it, but to know what the government said on our amendment and to be able to comment on it. You were able to tell us from November 1st to December 7th, when you submitted the draft budget, to talk to us - the budget was brought in, but technically it hasn't been multiplied yet, so you don't have it, because it has 900 pages. Once we have the government's opinion, then the conditions laid down in Article 147 will be created. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I see that the time has passed, just yet, Mrs Kolundzija, you said that there were reasons why the budget was delayed and that the reasons in this crisis that affected Europe, the world, of course and Serbia, but on November 1st, when the draft budget was to be adopted, then Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic claimed, and afterwards, that this crisis will not affect Serbia, on the contrary, that this crisis is day for Serbia, because of the European crisis we in Serbia will flourish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11359	There's no breach of Article 104. In its replica, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji did not violate any of the views of Article 104. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11360	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, member of 104 - violation of Parliament's dignity. Here we have the opportunity to see Mr. Todorovic swearing by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. We had a defense and security committee yesterday. I'm a member of that committee. Mr. Todorovic, for the entire duration of this committee, has not given me a word to address the members of the Committee. He gave his word to all the messengers who were present and who sought that word, which is quite fine. I wouldn't even be angry that Mr. Todorovic overlooked that I was one of the first to answer and wanted to talk about it. I think I was competent to talk about matters of defense. In fact, if General Ponosh said we didn't have a defence policy, I wanted to confirm it, because four years ago, when I was in the General Staff Operations Office, some of the SCG community strategic documents were done and I was involved in their development. After all, at that time I was also the guardian of the country's defence plan and the guardian of all the country's strategic documents. What state we are is saying and the fact that in four years we have not brought any strategic documents. The responsibility for this is certainly not on General Ponos. Responsibilities are primarily in the Serbian government and, indirectly, the Assembly, which has not used its constitutional and legal powers when it comes to the defence system. Let's just say that on the agenda was the use of trucks on Serbia's roads, I wouldn't answer the word, because Mr. Todorovic knows the area much better than I do. But when the issues of defence are on the agenda, I most modestly say that I can speak better of these questions than the porters who are presently MPs, countered officials or doctors, whom I respect all as colleagues here in parliament and which I am sure are good experts in my fields. This is already the second time that the chairman of the SRS committee, before that, was on the Committee on Industry, in the most harsh way, violates the Rules of Procedure of this assembly and introduces circus behavior followed by Serbian citizens. I have nothing to blame Mr. Todorovic and I don't blame him for this, because he's the first among the radicals in this assembly and when Serbian citizens see him acting first among radicals, they can only think what everyone else would do if they let them have... (President: It's three minutes and 30 seconds. At least one gram of government in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11361	National MP, all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply equally to the maintenance of the order at the meetings of the Committee and other working bodies of the Assembly, as well as to the session of the Assembly itself. The word to you, during the session of any committee, can only be taken away if you have previously been given a measure of first and second reminders, and on the basis of the reasons that the members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, that is to say, Article 106 would be applied. If that was not the case, as you claim, then the President or the Chairman has violated all members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the course of the committee's session and working bodies, as the Rules of Procedure are applied by analogy as the meeting itself. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Before I answer, let me just say one little thing. Before a gram of power, it takes at least a gram of brains, but also a lot of honor and honesty. As chairman of the Committee, I have worked in accordance with the Constitution, which says, Article 102 of the National MP’s mandate begins to run on the day of confirming the mandate in the National Assembly and lasts for four years, i.e. until the end of the term of office of the MPs of the National Assembly. Paragraph 2 of the National MP is free to, under the conditions of a certain law, unrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal he was elected as a MP. The previous speaker, the previous citizen, has made his mandate available to the SRS and there is no dilemma. The illegal, or criminal part of it has alienated the SRS documents, but the fact that we don't currently have unrevocable paper doesn't mean that we have to accept it. Imagine a criminal you know is a criminal, mentioned for years that he's been involved in crime, shows up, say, in some tender, bidding, that the money he's acquired by crime, buys a company or some good in the Republic of Serbia. First of all, whoever runs this procedure would have banned it, and in case he had already done so, under the law of confiscation of property acquired by crime, that property would have been seized. Therefore, those MPs who, thanks to the theft of documents from the SRS, are still MPs, thanks to the will of the majority, above all to DS, who have prepared these MPs to be their reserve, and we already see from the statements of Boris Tadic that there are already some favourite oppositions, etc., we had this in the earlier period, but here, new favorite oppositions appear and what is happening with Mladjan Dinkic, etc., it is clear everything in which direction it leads. Do not blame us for not agreeing to violate the Constitution, kidnapping mandates and abuse by the DS for this chaos in the Assembly that is happening, because you inspired it, you encourage it and maintain it further. We won't agree to that, and you need to understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11363	National MP, MP Bozidar Delic has the mandate of MP and president of any committee or any working body is obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since MP Bozidar Delic has all the rights and obligations that arise from the status of the MP. I warn you that it is a matter of self-will and abuse for any president of the board to decide voluntarily whether to apply the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or not, and in particular, there is no argument that you believe that someone is not an MP, only that there is no evidence missing. Either deliver evidence of the termination of a term of office or you are obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure and to allow all MPs to have the rights and responsibilities that they have under the law. We are late today with the session because we do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure, because there is no copy of the revised and multiplied amendments under consideration. That's the reason for a very serious debate, which I agree with. It's the respect of the Rules of Procedure. So, the session is 12.00 hours scheduled only when we've been provided with information that all amendments have been considered and that it's just a multiplication of material. It's a document that exists. We can't have a dispute about the same thing in different ways. So I warn you that you are obliged to respect the rights and duties arising from the status of the MP, which currently Bozidar Delic is undoubtedly. If you have evidence that it isn't, deliver it to the National Assembly's competent committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11364	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the SNS parliamentary group took part in consultations with the president and other members of the government on the problem of adopting the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget. We made our position clear there...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11365	I'm sorry to interrupt, MP. People's MP Milorad Krstin violates Article 104. I'm warning you, don't disturb the speaker or beat the inventory case.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11366	I hope he doesn't get a chance much longer, this is going to be a real assembly. So the government is to blame for the delay in budgeting. This government is composed of adding up to 126. In this government, political parties are completely political and ideologically opposed. Their relationship is based on interest. That interest will probably stop soon. Serbia needs a budget. Will he be delivered by December 29th or by the end of January? The only difference is that we will punish the citizens of Serbia for three months with the inability to finance their rights-based needs under the Constitution and laws. The SNS parliamentary group will not be a problem and will allow the majority in the assembly to come to the vote date within the deadline set and to declare the budget. We won't be in the hall in voting day. We talked about the fate of some SNS amendments. You gentlemen of the ruling majority think about what position you've put us in, fearing pensioners, fearing health, education, schooling, childcare, that everyone is afraid of how you meet the most ordinary legal deadlines you've ever committed to, bringing this same majority of the laws that regulate this matter. We don't want to be a problem. Please, Madam Minister, let us know from the pay phone in good time, which is the last deadline in which we should either give up the discussion or continue to drag this session, that the neighbors die the cow, and that his children are hungry, that we slaughter the ox for a kilo of meat. There are people who do politics that way. Mr. Todorovic dared not give General Delic the floor to speak about Serbia's defence and that's all he says about Mr. Todorovic. You really don't need anything anymore. The title is enough -- Todorovic understands Serbia's defence better than Bozidar Delic's. But speaking of co-operation with DS... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. I just need 15 seconds. It is interesting that a new Management Board of the Požerevec Development Fund was resolved and appointed, that the president of the Radicals in Pozarevec Valjarevic Saša was dismissed and then elected member of the Management Board. Look at the miracles, a certain Vujsic Branislav from the Fireman was chosen. Is that the brother of his own Aunt Gordana Pop-Lazic and is that co-operation with DS? (During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11367	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Do you want to talk about injury to the Rules of Procedure or use the right to replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11368	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, on the Defence and Security Committee, were one general. This is Lieutenant General, Chief of Staff, Zdravko Ponoš. He was a pensioner, who now works as a commercial passenger, sells paints, bows, construction material, etc. So we should still talk about some things, when things are already out, to make it clear, and not to spit on someone, and not only do you not have arguments, but you hide those facts. I'm not going to say anything else, who I got this information from, and how did this data get to me, but I'm asking one question: how come you're not threatening to destroy the SRS anymore? That we will not enter parliament. Don't brag about the research results now. It's a two-party system. Aha, what is it now? Now it's gone - I'll destroy you. During this time, you managed to reduce something incredible, to reduce between the 6% and 7% of the popularity you had at the beginning, because Serbian citizens understand the essence of things, because they figured out who the traitor was, which is why he betrayed and they realized that Boris Tadic had crutches in the party. Someone calls her a Joker, some kind of crutches, doesn't matter. The best example is this first part of exposure. Among other things, we had the best demonstration there was when a set of laws was passed from the judiciary. Some honestly entered the Assembly, gave the quorum, voted and the law was passed, and some under the blankets do those things, and they say we're fair. They don't even enter the Serbian Parliament. He can't. It can't. Serbian citizens see it. They see, because the non-entry is essential support for Boris Tadic and the impediment to adopt seven-eight amendments, and that of the MPs of the national minorities, who gave the law on the territorial distribution of courts. It is the essence of things - the betrayal and service of Boris Tadic. Here, now the Wolf gives him advice on the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11369	National MPs, members of the Committee of the National Assembly are MPs and all other professions, rank... People's MPs have begun to win here, says MP Momir Markovic. People's MP Suleiman Spaho throws too. Please, if we are calling for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milorad Radovanovic also throws it away. I warn everyone who earns it is a violation of Article 104 that the next step is to give a warning. Therefore, members of the Committee of the National Assembly are MPs, as long as they have a mandate from which their rights and duties arise. No chairperson, president, vice-president or any other MP shall have the right to voluntarily interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which shall be applied at each session of the Committee of the National Assembly or of the Working Body, as well as at a session of the National Assembly, and this shall constitute a serious violation of the chair, i.e. a violation of the fundamental rights which, according to the Rules of Procedure, belongs to each member of the Committee. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11370	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't want to yell, I have something to say. I've never yelled at party members. That's why they always loved me more than others. Mr. Todorovic brought out the data here only available and familiar. As far as I know, "Strategic Marketing" has released data that you are yellow at 41.2 that we are advances to 21.9 and that the Serbian Radical Party is on the magnificent 9.9. And I'm not lying, and you know I never lie. So you are truly one force that will change relations in the country. Mr. Todorovic, I would not allow you to worry about the defence of the country because I saw you react to the immediate danger when we were expelled from Perast, when the police expelled Vojislav Seselj and me, and we only gave you the camera to record it and when we asked if it was recorded, you said - no, I was driven, I was in the toilet the whole time. That's your courage, Mr. Todorovic, proven. So please hit those legs, but you won't be able to drive the truck after. Hit those legs, slap your hands, make sure you're loud. I don't have anything to destroy you anymore, you've ruined everything, your idea, your behavior. You will prevent Serbia from getting the budget. You said I was a favorite politician, Boris Tadic, so you say we've had it before, so that's Seselj being accused of being a favorite politician. What are you attacking Seselj? Who gives you the right to attack Vojislav Seselj? Behind him, you're just covering for him, or one of you may have taken the lead, so he's gonna run this party. Don't touch him. It's hard enough for him, Mr. Todorovic, that you represent him here, no greater punishment for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11371	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. I ask a very simple question, take the Management Board reports, the last four or five sessions, and look who's the signer. Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Nenad Konstantinović. Do you know why? So when the yellow ones care about doing something, then the message gets on the phone and says, Tomo, don't come to the session, and Toma listens, there's nothing, it's not there. When they care about holding the Finance Committee, a message also arrives -- don't come, someone will chair, or vote, the Democratic Party will. That's what you explain, it's important for Serbian citizens. How come one Tomislav Nikolic, who's been here since 92, lets himself get pager after 16 years, now you are, now you're not? Boris Tadic picks up, goes to the cottage, and then Boris Tadic says, "Now get out of the house, and whenever he wants to, he does it." Is there another chairman of the board to whom the call comes and says - don't chair the board now, but will the vice president chair? There isn't. Only two committees led by these party representatives called the stilt or crutches, the rat of Mr Tadic. When you explain it, you won't have any problems. That's the basic thing here. I think you're taking it slow and you're getting it. You're starting to realize that, because things are going to happen a lot faster than I thought. As for Vojislav Seselj and whether he's suffering because I'm the boss or not right now, I have no dilemma at all, what to do to him, let him suffer. Among other things, unlike Tomislav Nikolic and many, Vojislav Seselj, I always said everything I thought, whether I was right or not. I said the same thing this morning. I said, there are other favorite politicians. That's what I told him this morning when we talked. So, that's how I'll always behave. I don't have two opinions, I have one, and I express my opinion. What I mean, I say, what I say, I do. I'm not saying it's a good thing... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ..and that I'm good, absolutely. I'm not asking them to love me. What's there to love me, do my job in a party, which I think I should do in the interest of the Serbian Radical Party. Maybe he's not the best way, but that's what I've been doing since I was 96. I'll do it or I'll be relieved, or I'll say it-- my people, I don't do it anymore, I'm old, I'm retired.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11373	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. The committee's session, if it has a quorum, which requires decision-making, can be managed by the president or vice president, and the work of the committee's session can run, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and without the quorum necessary for decision-making. I ask the MPs who want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or have the right to reply to the contents of their speech, style, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. MP Tomislav Nikolic. I didn't give any MPs my own warning. The warning was not given to any MP personally, but as a reminder of the obligation to address one another with respect. Since I have not yet given my word to MP Tomislav Nikolic, part of the respect of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be to stop pounding about inventory because it represents the same violation of members of the Rules of Procedure as anything else, and we all have equal rights and equal duties here. It is not just a threat to the right to free speech of the MP behind the pay phone. It is a disdain for the reputation of the National Assembly and it is an insult to all other MPs who want to hear, with equal attention, all speakers who have the right to speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure or have the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's finally something Dragan Todorovic is right about. Indeed Vojislav Seselj is a weak leader of this party. You were right to distract him. Don't make me go to the house, Mr. Todorovic, don't bring me into the house, lions don't live in the houses. I'm a lion to you, so at least go to the zoo and see where the lions live. Get me to the cave, get me somewhere, but don't go to the house. I'm not angry, it's your way of addressing members of the SRS. They're used to it. They're putting up with it. That's what I have to say now, I never liked that way of talking to you, but what do I do, you were my great friends. You put that friendship at risk when you cursed my grandchildren. I'll never answer you that way. I know that one day you will be my friend again. Because people just don't leave me. People live with me, something separates us, people come back. That's how some of you come back, so they communicate with me. You know there's no reason to avoid that communication. So, Mr. Todorovic, lower your voice, talk to me, at least from this pay phone, normally. Now let me tell you why I don't hold board meetings. 'Cause there's 50 of you who won't let the session be held. Whether it is immunity, and Mr. Dejan Mirovic participates in it dearly, is not there Maksimovic. So, you're all taking part in the pleasures of disrupting the session I'm having. Is immunity, who needs to be taken down by someone who's wronged the law, whether it's the pay of a MP, you don't care. Whether to choose a new Serbian Radical MP is of no interest to you. You're interrupting the session. I can't take it. Make a deal with the yellows, get rid of me, it's very simple, it's very easy. Afterwards, you can give the DSS a seat as chairman of the Committee, as you did for KIM. Those who have been imposed upon you as your leaders' current ideas and deserve to do so. But in order for the sessions to be held, I will not lead them. If that's any of your winnings, count, you're the big winners. There's only one thing I'm telling you -- it's no good what you're doing and you're not sitting in these first three rows, and you're up there, you're fully aware of it. You can't pull that off. There are different interests here that hold you. I don't blame you for anything. I'm just saying, don't make any new choices. Many of you will never see the door to the congregation again. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11375	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply to all committees and working bodies, in all its provisions relating to the course of the session, it shall be clearly written that this is the appropriate application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the meeting of the National Assembly. Once again, I remind and beg all MPs, who violate Article 104, and disturb the speaker and disdain all of us, making it impossible for us to hear what the MP is saying, to stop doing it, regardless of what the inventory is, so that I can't take article 106 and give a warning measure, and then a warning. It's already a question of the style of MPs who do it. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. So the People's Messenger Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11376	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 103 and 104. The Rules of Procedure and I ask that the work continue in accordance with Article 139(5), which says: "Unless the committees responsible deliver reports, or government opinion on the bill, the bill will be considered without these reports, or opinions." Please move to the budget debate how, Mr. Todorovic, no one would have to convince the builders who is responsible for not being adopted, because citizens will be judged on the basis of what we are going to do. The citizens are certainly waiting for the budget and certainly an important budget for the citizens of Serbia. It's much more important than what you want to show who was worse in that distributed party and who was better. One more thing, I want to, for the sake of truth, to say that Members of Parliament in the Administrative Committee of the Last Sessions of the Administrative Committee are calling for their request, because the President of the Administrative Committee refuses to convene that committee and that is certainly something to which, as with other committee presidents who abuse the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly has to deal with it, that the Rules of Procedure are strictly respected and that it is strictly relevant to the Committee presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11377	The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11378	I'm advertising Article 104. Mrs. Kolundjia, it is interesting that you are here as a pay phone presenting the fact that someone is violating the Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament, and you are not doing anything, nor do I want you to do anything about it, that we understand each other, because it suits you. Obviously, it suits you. We only point to the citizens of Serbia as well as to the budget and these songs of yours, which everyone already knows by heart. You're obstructing, you're making it impossible for Serbia to move forward. Europe is waiting for us. The only one responsible is the opposition, or the SRS. I'm sorry Tom's not here. We were great friends. It's an extremely nice friendship for me, which we've spent together these years. What Tomislav Nikolic says is that we might be friends again, you know, it's possible. It's human sin and human forgiveness. The one upstairs has a scale and measure, as they say, "not by the grandmother or by the uncles." And we mortal people get into situations, when we realize we've made a mistake, we pray for forgiveness. I'm sure that day will come, that Tomislav Nikolic will realize how much he's made a mistake, how much sin he's committed and that he'll come and say - Todor, brother, you were right. It wasn't the first time, and I was wrong, so I told him, Tomo, I was wrong, what to do. But this is a big mistake he made. It's a moment I believe will come. For Tomislav Nikolic, the sooner he gets here, the better it will be for him to take down all the problems he's had for the past month and more days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11379	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11380	Dear Members of Parliament, Madam Chairman, I would like first of all to refer to the budget and to Rule 147 of our Rules of Procedure. But before that, given that I was personally called here and that certain words were given, which referred to the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to draw attention to Mrs Nadia Kolundzia too, but more because of the public who sees us. As you ordered Tomislav Nikolic to leave the hall when it was voted on a set of judicial laws, so that it would not come to the adoption, so at least twenty amendments could be adopted in connection with the law on the seats of the courts, or it would have to be revealed whether this parliamentary group, the phantom parliamentary group, was opposition or was the first, second reserve of the governing structure, so today you gave him the task to distract the National Assembly, in order to get time for the government to possibly give an opinion on the amendments to the budget law. I believe we will never get the government's opinion because the government has a conscience that it's impossible for that law to be passed. But if so, wouldn't it be fair, Madam Minister, the government has authorized you to come here and explain it to us, tell the Serbian public, for these and those reasons we've been late for 40 days and we haven't delivered the draft budget law to the Assembly. The congregation is simply not satisfied with this bill, nor are we satisfied. We have 500 and some amendments. We can't be able to discuss them. We're not ready to accept them. We're not ready to give up, because if we give up it means we've supported such a bad budget, it's so logical. It's not a big deal to move on to temporary funding, to stop this barren debate, because if it doesn't work, and in January, we can bring the budget back, it's not again, it's for the first time. We may have lost 15 days. We don't have to wait for the March moon, please. We don't have to spend a whole quarter on temporary funding. Explain to the people what it means, don't scare the people with it. There are people who are ignorant, who don't know if the problem is getting the budget in January. Take responsibility for yourself, don't blame the opposition. The opposition simply cannot be guilty of anything. I'm only saying this for the public, not for you, because I know you know it, but you can't say it. To a certain individual, who imagined he was a lion, I only have to direct a few words here, he may be a lion in his eyes, but he has his own code, if this was the President of the Assembly here, he would say what it is (President: Speak for three minutes and 30 seconds. ). Thank you, I'm done. When the Seselj family was kicked out of Montenegro, Mr Nikolic was so anonymous that no one even paid attention to him. Therefore, he should not give himself as much meaning as he gives. Also, when it comes to Vojislav Kostunica, he offered so much that he hated him because Kostunica blew him away, so now he's putting us where we don't need him. Don't let anyone worry about us. The SRS will take care of the SRS: nine percent nine, nine-and-a-half, five-five, 20-20, 30-30, we're used to it all, we'll get to 51%. As the people wish it will be, and we will always respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11381	There's no damage to the members of the 137th or 139th or 147th. The first two copies of the government's opinion were delivered to the chairman and secretary of the National Assembly, in which minute 10 copies of the press will arrive to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. So there's no objection. Of course, it stands the right for everyone to doubt whether I told the truth when I informed the 1200s that the government had considered all the amendments, so we respected and applied Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it is a technical part of the multiplication of material. Two such multiplied copies are on the table of the chairman, very soon it will be given to the president of the parliamentary groups, and then to all MPs, because that is how the Rules of Procedure is applied. As far as the number of amendments is concerned, you have presented false information, on the draft budget law for 2009, 241 amendments have been submitted, and in all the draft laws on the agenda of up to 331 amendments, how much is in the procedure of the National Assembly at the moment, so if we are already calling on the Rules of Procedure, if we are calling for the procedure, if we are calling for the law to be respected, then we are not making up at least a number of amendments, since it is quite easy to verify. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11382	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the possibility of obtaining the necessary information from state officials to carry out their parliamentary duties. Today, on a weekly list, which has a lot of colorful and pointless sides, Mr. President Boris Tadic gave an interview on four sides and now asking him for an answer, let his advisors from the cabinet, who gave him the right, because I believe that a broken member of the Constitution that regulates the rights and duties of the President of the Republic, be directly involved in the work of parliament, the National Assembly, giving an assessment of whether MPs are performing their duties properly and, as he said, 'the present parliament is actually a place for the inhibition of political processes and reforms'. Who is responsible for this, I ask Boris Tadic. A democratic party. When it gives interviews and when it is advertised as President of the Republic, it must not give an assessment of what legitimate representatives of the people are doing. He was elected in the direct elections and now the citizens see what kind of president it is, he broke an oath he took with regard to our southern provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, tried to crack in the SRS, organised it along with his Miki Rakic, with M-6, with Manter, with Wardsworth, and now every day the humiliation of the Serbian parliament continues. This is my fifth term in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to defend the integrity of all people sitting here. For what? Because the President of the Republic can't give such flat-rates. Having his favorite politician, or his own crutches, is his problem. But you can't go through the President of the Republic, who at the same time is a member of your incompetent party at the top of the ruling coalition, and a pyramid that is about to collapse, I saw it at these consultations, none of you are satisfied, primarily your individual coalition partners, with the draft budget. You're comfortable with the temporary funding. What kind of pointless public story is it -- they don't give radicals, not DSS, not NS? That's bullshit, because the draft budget didn't come within the legal deadline. You are now in a position to justify your incompetence, and it is not justified by such statements by the president of the state, nor by your conduct that you do not respect the will of the people in the May 11th elections. In this interview, he showed his lack of information and that is why I am informing him this way, and I am asking for this notice, as I quoted under Article 226, Mr Boris Tadic, the SRS list holder from the first parliamentary elections to today is Dr Vojislav Seselj, president of Serbian Radicals. What's important is that after four months, everything came out of sight and it's seen from this interview of his and who he's going to cooperate with, and who he's telling to arrange his ranks, that's what came out of the O.R. You know, Mrs. Comic, when after that famous action of "Sabbe" came out of the book "The White Book on Serbian Crime", there were names of various gangs, so now it would be good to supplement itself with these thieves and secics in the characters Nikolic and Vucica to create a new chapter, which is how the new book of 1,000 pages, which I warmly recommend to you, the new book by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, "The Fail of Tomislav Nikolic". I use the opportunity, Mrs. Comić, in Kragujevac you have a committee, although in conflict with this coalition, you are fighting over the table because this Milanic procurator, now the main problem of the building table, is to invite all Kragujevci to come to the Joakim Vujic Theatre on Sunday, the first Serbian theatre, Književsko-Serb Theatre, to promote, at 17.00 a.m., Dr. Vojislav Seselj's books, which is the essence of his defence: "The Decorated Hague turkey Kristina Dal". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11383	The word has been made by MP Zoran Krasic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Once again, I remind you all of the obligation to respect all the members and provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both in procedure and in manner of address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11384	Madam Chairman, I think Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also create an obligation for you to take a look at and a stenogram of what was done during the day, so when you apply the rules of procedure so rigorously as to determine exactly how this defile was going on today towards the speaker, was it all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? But I answered for another thing. I think you blatantly violated article 27 during the first announcement of the president of the ZES parliamentary group and I request that the voting day determine that you have also committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the president of the ZES parliamentary group. And the president of the ZES parliamentary group has committed an injury as set out in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because from this pay phone she pleaded a violation of the Constitution and the law. She has sent a clear message from here to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to us frightened opposition MPs that, in addition to its readiness, she offers us to violate the Constitution and the law. She and her majority are ready to make a budget, and of course this other side, probably, can draw conclusions, not ready, and her willingness could also be glified and verified by harshly breaking the Constitution and the law. The public in Serbia should know that the 2009 bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget has been late for 40 days. All possible deadlines for the adoption of the law on the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget have expired. That's what Boris Tadic gave us, since he's supposed to have a little bit of work to do, so it's like he's on the way. So what someone wants to present is that it is more in the power of Vuk Bojovic, as we have said here, that we have had the opportunity to hear that someone boasting that they have become a lion, is in that position, that Serbian citizens would not know that the 40 days late draft of the budget law, because those who support the government of the Republic of Serbia are fully aware that the government is functioning by the office system. Their authority outside the office doesn't exist. Outside the office there is the power of tycoon and other similar characters. That's the main thing. Someone's got to answer 40 days late on the budget bill. Someone finally has to answer and why the laws change for a year. What are the objective reasons? These are the real themes. In order not to waste time, the chairman, given that the legitimacy of work in the National Assembly is long since the gender and legality of the decisions and the laws that are being made here is long ago under question, I am taking the opportunity to inform the public that there is a list of political parties represented in the National Assembly on the website of the National Assembly of Serbia, so let Mrs Comic find her favorite party here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11385	The position of the chairman, unfortunately, prevents me from answering which of my parties in the National Assembly is my favorite. As for the position that the injured member of the 27th and your argument that the application of the Rules of Procedure is rigorous, there is no injury and your argument does not stand. This application of the Rules of Procedure takes place partly on the basis of a silent agreement and on the basis of inherited practice. The silent arrangements are to say the president of the parliamentary groups gets word before other MPs, although it is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure. Inherited practice is that MPs, past the part of the MPs who regulate the course of the session, are given the floor and speak from the section of the Rules of Procedure on Rights and responsibilities, that is to say, have the right to express their views by calling on the members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide for a rigorous punishment for anyone who interferes with other MPs, who addresses the other MPs by demeaning them and directs the chairman to the penalty measures of the first, second, notices and confiscation of the words referred to in Article 106. That would be a rigorous application of the Rules of Procedure. Your argument does not stand, because all of this does not apply during the session, but has in the application of our silent arrangements that imply that the rights apply equally to all and that the problem is that some rights are required to apply only to one person and not to others, which is why you put the chairman under particularly difficult circumstances to fully apply the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11386	We at the DSS are really trying really hard to get to this debate as soon as possible, to try to be efficient, to adopt the constitutional budget by the deadline, if possible, even though the one given should not be adopted, but that is why we are talking to the Minister about our amendments. But then the president of the ZES parliamentary group comes out twice in the last hour. I'm reporting by Article 104 because I honestly think that she is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly with everything she says here. You know what, Mrs. Hope, nothing's worked in this country since you've been in power. Forty days late for your budget. On September 30th of this year as a delegation of the National Assembly, Mrs Branka Ljiljak, as vice-president of the Finance Committee, my smallness, Mrs Zlata Djeric and several other MPs, mostly without DS, we were guests of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Poland, of a large country, of the EU, on the day they handed over the budget to the National Assembly in a four-month debate, that is their constitution and their Rules of Procedure on Labour. They had a global economic crisis, too. In their words, huge problems with agricultural pensions, agricultural pension laws, huge health reform problems, so they delivered in time. You were 40 days late. The congregation has nothing to do with it. The government was 40 days late. Eulex in Kosovo, Unmika is nowhere, disappeared, although you say Unmik is still there after Resolution 1244. It's attacking the SPC. European integration has completely stopped. The visa regime -- it has nothing to do with January 1st. Salaries and pensions are frozen. The signing is therefore not respected by the signed extended fact of the collective agreement. Unions on the street. After that, you yesterday to them, i.e. The Prime Minister, you threaten, you cause fear again and you say - if you go out on the street there will be cancellations. Then you find some businessmen who say that, and unions don't complain about private companies, they respect a collective contract. They are looking for an extended fact of collective agreement in the public sector, they are asking the government, as this is what the government is threatening public sector workers to be fired. It was a threat yesterday, but some industrialist was found to say something. The defense system is falling apart. The Prime Minister says -- I don't want to get involved in a dispute between the Secretary of Defense and the Chief of Staff, as if it were two peanuts in the country yard, not these two very important people. You don't want him getting mixed up in it, what do you want him to get mixed up in? You don't know anything. Since you've been running the country, it's been a complete collapse and chaos. Either that's what you want, or you don't know anything, there's no third. Don't harass us anymore, let us work, let us finish these amendments. If we can make a deal with the government, we can, and Monday, see if we can fix the budget and adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11387	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. With a stenogram of the National Parliament of Hope Kolundzhija, you will see that there are no grounds for violating any member of the Rules of Procedure or of Rule 104. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11388	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, in terms of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226, I request one notice, given the very serious thing that is happening in Panchev, i.e. in the factory of nitrogen fertilizers - Azotari. I've been asking more questions lately about the situation in this factory. Today, the Azotar factory, even the Petrochemy factory, has been blocked by workers, as workers protest and demand that their profits be paid for the last five or six months, because they do not receive salaries. On the other hand, I ask the Ministry of the Interior and the Public Prosecutor's Office whether it has taken appropriate measures under the Law to find the perpetrators of the crime that stole the Karbamid 2 factory, consisting of Azotara Panchevo, whose book value is 45m euros, because the buyer has laid down a new factory, whose value, as I pointed out, is 45m euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers, around 1,200 workers have today blocked the factory, blocked the administrative building and sought and demanded through their unions that their rights be exercised. I request a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- whether it will solve the problem in Azotara Panchevo, because about 4,000 souls are supported from the nitrogen fertilizer factory, which does not produce nitrogen fertilizer for about six months, and owners import from abroad and sell it more expensively for about 50% than the factory would produce. I'm looking for a notice - will the DA file a criminal case for the theft of this factory, for numerous abuses, for robbery, forgeries, and for not holding a deal for sale? I ask the Government for a notice - what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to resolve the issue in Azotara Panchevo? That question is very serious. Put yourself in the role of those poor workers and martyrs who don't receive salaries for months, and the new owners now announce discharge and have already fired and driven about 550 workers away ten days ago. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia must take certain measures because the Privatisation Agency has committed a number of crimes when it comes to the privatisation of Azotara and cannot be overrun. The workers of Azotara Panchevo must be helped at this time, this problem must be resolved and the contract must be reviewed and audited, as the existence of a large number of citizens is precisely dependent on the factory (President: Time is three minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you, which the workers were building, but now they are left with poverty and poverty. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia must clear up and resolve the problem, and help these workers, and those responsible in the Agency must respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11389	The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11390	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call for Article 104 to hurt the dignity of the Assembly, in this case the violation of the dignity of the Vice-President of Mr Bozidar Delic's Assembly. Today, a few bad words about General Delic were spoken in the Assembly. I don't want to do politics right now. I just want to draw attention to something that's more important than politics, and that's the defense of this country. If anyone can say something ugly about General Delic, then it's really not right. Since I'm in history, I'll only tell you one piece of information that might complete your picture of General Bozidar Delic. In 1998, the only Serbian city in KIM that was occupied by the so-called KIM. The KLA was an Orahian. General Bozidar Delic, with one tank and three soldiers, freed Orahovac, the only occupied city in KIM by so-called. Okay. If someone's trying to hurt it, it's really not right. I ask you to speak with a little more dignity about those who have indeed done their best to defend Serbia, in this case KIM, part of Serbia, from the Shiparian terrorists and their mentors. He retired in the 48th year of his life because foreign NATO officials wanted him to because he fought against NATO and the KIM KIC. So I ask you with dignity to talk about such people. My remark is not really directed against those who spoke against him. I am speaking to the entire public of Serbia, that it is a little more known, because it is not only Bozidar Delic retired, but almost all officers, captains, majors, colonels, generals who fought at KIM for Serbia's defence. So I ask you to talk about it with a little more dignity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11391	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11392	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I called earlier. I expected the story to resemble what was happening behind this pay phone, but here's the SRS and none of its representatives spoke of General Delic earlier. We were talking about a retired, retired general who usurped something belonging to the SRS. The retired general would have done something similar to his mandate, which you did on a committee, calling for morality, to return something to the SRS. That's what he could have done. Then all together should have returned the property of the SRS and had called upon us morale, dignity, and respect for obligations, or respect for what some once did or did. It's not worth wasting time on. We don't expect that to work. You still, unfortunately, have support here on the left, and as long as they estimate that you should sit there, you will sit there. I already said that once. If you give me a chance and space afterwards I'll remind you of some of your words that don't match what you said a few days ago about this pay phone, but I'm thinking that at this point, objectively, nobody should be involved, because this is very elaborate and orchestrated. You're here, you're coming out now, to get the government to look for rules, to build an alibi for its intentions. These intentions are verbally very clever and skillfully trying to conceal the president of the parliamentary group, Nada Kolundzija, as well, calling for citizens' interests. If it was the citizens' interest to adopt the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year, it would have come in time for the procedure and I believe it would have been adopted by now. The government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to adopt the budget because it is eligible for temporary funding. What are the motives, that's a thing for controversy, but what you want is for you to try, by temporary funding, to control unreasonable people in your government, because you'll always have an alibi to disagree with and not give money for which some unreasonable individuals in the government are looking for money and want to spend it in the coming year. The SRS has defined its relationship to this budget as you have imposed. When you sent the budget into the procedure, we responded to it with amendments and we have no intention of withdrawing them, because we do not see the meaning of political struggle, political action in this Parliament, if we are entitled to what the constitution, law and rules of procedure give us the opportunity, if that is denied. So stop making a farce, you don't want to adopt the budget. If you really intend to do something for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stop this session, because even if we started discussing the amendments at 10 o'clock, we won't be able to do it by December 29th. (President: three minutes and three seconds. Don’t waste your time and money on the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11393	Ambassador Marko Milenkovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After the heartwarming story of Bozidar Delic and Mrs Comic's concern about it, I am almost certain that he would give the DS a real opinion on the conflict at the Sutanovac-Podoš route, but we all know that he, as a citizen, did not belong in the Serbian parliament, so he had no basis to get his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11395	People's MP, every time any of the MPs who has been told to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't interrupt it until it seriously endangers the dignity of the National Assembly. You cannot treat any MP who has all the rights and responsibilities that he has under his mandate any other way than a MP. As soon as you've broken up, you've made yourself known by article 100. You've been given the floor by article 100, and you've been given the floor because you want to talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, on the basis of Article 100(1), you get your word because you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. If a member of 100 were hurt, then you wouldn't get a word. Please give your address to the MPs and comments of the Assembly with the rules of conduct, and according to the Members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is injured. National MP Radovanovic throws it away. I warn you that the discard is also forbidden by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I ask you not to do so. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11396	Mrs. Comic, based on article 100. I have received word from the Rules of Procedure, pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Rule 104, so if you will, why not, on the violation of Rules of Procedure - Rule 100, because Mr Delic and Nikolic spoke for more than three minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11397	People's MP, I warn you that all MPs speak for more than three minutes. This is a second warning, and I truly most sincerely ask you to give your treatment and exposure in the context of the injury you are trying to explain the sumerate with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. All MPs get a notice when 30 seconds out of three minutes pass, it does not apply to any MP in particular. I really ask you to explain the violation of the member of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11398	Mrs. Komic, all of this would have been fine if you had interrupted Mr. Delic when he said here that some MPs had introduced circus behavior into the work of the Assembly, which seriously violated the dignity of this assembly, because circus behavior is in fact stealing mandates and keeping them from the ruling majority. We're showing our protest here with one appropriate knock, because, secondly, we can't give this ossion power when someone steals your property and anything from your house. The power is powerful, the power is power, you have 127 MPs plus Tom, but we can't agree with that theft. As for Mr. Delic, we all heard he was good as a soldier, he followed orders from the army commander, Chief of Staff, and of course he couldn't possibly make a mistake. But that's why in his politics, the party's president, he stabbed him in the back, which is why he's talking about him. I would ask Mr Tomislav Nikolic, they are neither there nor others, but there are their friends, never to mention in public the name of Vojislav Seselj, because he is not worthy of that honorable name or mention. Tomislav Nikolic was only right in one thing, because when someone tells a lot of lies, sometimes some truth happens. He said that very soon this would be the true congregation. I am sure that very soon this will be the true Assembly with the return of the greatest Serbian hero of the modern age Vojislav Seselj. The mice will move away, the duke will lead the people into the future, and this parliament will be chaired by the Serbian Radical and the Assembly will no longer be the handmaid of the puppet government, and very soon will stop the sunroof of our nation and the head of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11399	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11400	Dear Parliament, the chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, I advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 103, paragraph 1 - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Here are representatives of political parties who want to help adopt the budget by December 29th. There are also MPs who do not want to adopt the budget, one or the other, but if the budget is bad for them, I ask them to talk about the budget and the poor characteristics of the budget. Failure to adopt a budget will not cost any of the politicians, it will not cost political parties, it will cost citizens of Serbia. I can say, on behalf of my political party, on behalf of the SPO, I want to show responsibility that we have been elected to the duties of Members solely to carry out our parliamentary duties in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At least let us act in accordance with this legal act that this assembly has prescribed and respect for what we have prescribed ourselves, that private problems, problems between individual people, personal problems, political problems forget, daily politics, and at least until December 29 you will have a chance to deal with your personal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11401	The People's MP, the application of Article 103, is a mandatory one, but this session began at 12 o'clock, after a break given at 10 o'clock, because the MPs rightly asked for a report, opinions on the amendments made by the Government. All objections to the fact that the first ten copies arrived only an hour and a little later, by technical multiplication, stand. There is no doubt that all MPs want to talk about the agenda, but these are simply preconditions for which MPs have the right, to seek what is required of them by the rules of the Rules of Procedure for the work of the National Assembly. National MP Jovan Damjanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. This morning, a Roma family came from Nis, the Savic Milorad family, who received two solutions to tear down his house, in which he lived for more than 25 years. The solution was last given in 6.11.2008, to tear down the house and fence. I will not enter whether it is necessary to tear down the house or not, if it is necessary for the urban plan of the city of Nis to build certain buildings that are of interest to the citizens and to the city of Nis, it is certain that it will collapse, whether it has permission or not. I am interested and I mean to say, and this is what the SRS and I, as the president of the Roma Republic of Serbia, are calling for, after that decision, citizens of Savik Milorad submitted to So Nis, to make a settlement and an agreement on the compensation of the current one to be destroyed. However, the municipality suits him like this, allow the MPs and citizens of Serbia to hear what they say - acting on your request, this authority informs you that the question of compensation is not a previous issue for this body and that you have not acted neatly, according to the hand-made executive decision on the destruction of this body within the time limits given in the solutions. There's no talking about compensation, about dislocation, where this family is going to live, how they're going to live, how a solution is given, now that it's coldest, when wintertime is, when it's wintertime, to tear down the house. Where would that family go? That's six hundred family members he has in Nis. I wonder why, as I mentioned, it should collapse, there is no discussion of compensation for the living room, housing unit or dislocation - the transfer of the family to another housing unit. You can't, you're not allowed to tear down someone's house and be on the street. So I urge both the Assembly and President So Nis to solve this case for mutual satisfaction, so that there are no phenomena, that there is discrimination against the Roma, because in this country, I explicitly say, there is no discrimination against the Roma. I'll talk about it later in my presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11403	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11404	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. One of the predecessors just said that almost the entire opposition, but one political party in particular, is not for the adoption of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MPs have not yet received the government's opinion. They got it, I think it's got three or four copies, the heads of the parliamentary groups. We haven't yet. This is a book of amendments to the budget. This is to be discussed and should be completed by 29:00, and then the budget would be adopted. For a month and a half, the budget was delayed in the Serbian Parliament. No one can call the entire parliamentary group of one party and say they're guilty of not adopting the budget. From the Legislative Committee, too, I don't think we've got an opinion. We got the opinion of the Finance Committee. The other thing, while we're discussing this, 20 days ago we debated and pushed out a story called "Belgrade" Airport and Bojan Kristo. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today they pay off at the Belgrade Airport at enormous amounts. I only have two copies, where there's one 580,000 on the other 713 grand. So nothing has changed. Nothing's been done, and all we're talking about is that we've replaced Bojan Kristi. Bojan Kristo and today comes in the afternoon at Belgrade Airport and hides the documentation with the Finance Director. Another thing Serbian citizens need to know is that Bojana Kristu is preparing a severance from Belgrade Airport. If this country lets it do the same, then let's toast. The third thing, since I have more time, which I want to potentiate, is for MPs and for those who regard themselves as ambassadors of the people. Article 102. Serbia's constitution says -- the MP is free to put his mandate at the disposal of the political party, on condition of a certain law, on whose behalf he was elected MP. All of us MPs of the SRS have made our mandate available to the SRS. The theft of the property of the SRS, more specifically those resignations, which we filed, is a different story, and it's organized crime, which is why someone who did it, and he boasted from this pay phone, I can't even mention his name, because then I'd have to tell the gentleman, the courtoasia won't let me put it any other way. He's not a gentleman in this case. If honor and honesty were those who went with him, and we are talking about honor and honesty, about defense, etc., they would have done what we MPs of the SRS did again. There are three or four of them who did it, so they left. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Thus, so much for the honor of those who defended Serbia. We all defended Serbia with more or less results. What is Serbia's defence is one thing, and what is morale and stealing a mandate is something else entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11405	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. Just to complete your presentation, it's not three or four divided, it's divided ten copies of the multiplied, all the presidents of the parliamentary groups. All objections made by the MPs, as regards violations of deadlines from the budget calendar, delays with today's multiplication are in place, and that is precisely why, in 12, multiplied copies of the Government's opinion to all members of the parliamentary groups have been divided. There are ten of them in our National Assembly. The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I'm reporting in accordance with Article 104. I'll be brief. I would just draw your attention, as chairman, we all make mistakes, you are the best, really, interpreting the Rules of Procedure, but I would ask you to have the same archaics towards each other, and I see that, as your colleagues said, when Mr. Nikolic came out here and mentioned some ugly words, you did not respond, and for every Serbian radical you react. So much for that. Mr. Pelevic, I want to address you, you have no need to defend General Delic for this pay phone, you know how he came to us, but I am speaking to you since I was in that assembly when you moved to the SRS. I'll find out what we talked about back then. That's when you impressed me. Of course, I respect your early Serbian heroes, but I would also remind you, Mr Pelevic, that the late Zeljko Raznatović Arkan is also the most sensitive to treason. You came to Vojislav Seselj's party, you spoke very nicely, that's when I first met you, it was nice to meet you, and I'll remind you, then you said, please, here everything. Momo Markovic, I think, was with me in the delegation. I'm not looking for any function in your party. I want my group to move completely to the only patriotic party, to the SRS, led by Serbian hero Dr Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Pelevic, of course, when we transferred it to Vojislav Seselj, he said - no, you have to force him, he has to be in the Ottajbin administration, he has to be an MP. Mr. Pelevic, I don't think you need to talk and defend General Delic, you've disappointed me, we're talking about morality here. You could have retired, not going there or anywhere, stayed big, but you came in, Vojislav Seselj proposed you as an MP and you went the other way. I had to react that this was known and that you had no reason, no moral reasons to defend General Delic. Let him defend himself, in a similar way he came to our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11407	There's no breach of Article 104. Three times in total, I just reminded myself, and that was true of all MPs, MPs who speak and listen, of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that regulate our conduct during the National Assembly session and did not refer to any MPs in particular, except when I pronounce a name, because I have an obligation to warn a MP who apparently violates the Rules of Procedure, any provision of Rule 104, and I am obliged to give a warning. Everything else applies to all of us. National MP Slobodan Maras wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11408	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, reporting for violation of Article 24, which is that the chairman should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of course, and of Article 104. Mrs. Komic, the situation for everyone who has been following this assembly for a little while is quite clear. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the president of parliament, is gone, and this is the situation where you get the opportunity to lead and when you get the opportunity to obstruct the work of the Assembly. For what? Because the government's opinion has not arrived, it needs to buy time and then, of course, every time is the same scenario. The next thing you know, Mr Tomislav Nikolic comes out, provokes the MPs of the SRS, and then it takes hours. You, in your explanations, are, of course, way out of time, talking for a few minutes, and you tried to show force, that is, to create authority on the SRS MP, Mr Milenkovic. Perhaps, as I do not wish to abuse, but I know that we have talked about that in some other parliaments, those MPs who are once or twice, of course do not have the opportunity to speak as those who have been in the assembly for many years, and you are obviously sticking to it and you have tried to build authority on an MP. Why don't you try it with someone who's been here a little longer or head of Parliament? You told him he couldn't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because some MPs spoke for more than three minutes. You have allowed them to speak for more than three minutes, and you are calling on everyone to speak for more than three minutes, and you are chairing, which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. Just please, try here is definitely next, to get the opposition to blame because the budget won't be adopted. I have every right to say that, because the LDP has not submitted any amendments, it wanted to be constructive, but what you as the ruling majority are doing, or you as chairman, is creating chaos in the Assembly to show that the SRS is guilty of not being adopted. There's really a lot of arguments where you can say they're obstructing sometimes. But people have submitted amendments, you've come to talk to them in a minute to 12 and presented it as a gentleman's gesture, or prime minister. So a long time ago he had to talk to opposition members. We offered an agreement two months ago to all parties in the Assembly, to make a deal on how we're going to get out of this agony where the state is, not just when it comes to the budget. Of course there was no readiness. Please, give Mrs. Slavica, under Rule 98, the President of the Assembly will come, have them call a meeting of the heads of parliament, wait for the government's opinion and let's get to work. This is how you consciously lead citizens who are watching the Assembly to see the darkness because they are watching this, and you are deliberately obstructing it, and that is the thousandth time, it has been proven that every time you are in charge of situations like this happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11409	People's MP, you've stated that a member of 24 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's MP, you'll see with your insight into the National Assembly's stenogram that you've listed a member of 24th and a member of 104. The MP says he was a lapus. This explanation of whether or not there was an injury is proof that I listen very carefully to all speakers at the pay phone and that I suppose, when you said Article 104, that you meant Article 27. By means of a rigorous application, which I have also been reminded of, we would be warned that there is no breach of Article 24, but is talking about the formation of parliamentary groups and the further application of all those members of the Rules of Procedures relating to the obligation to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Everything else you've said doesn't stand, so there's no harm done to Article 27 or to Article 24. Please put it in the stenogram that it's article 27. Rules of Procedure, not 24. National MP Milovan Radovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. The chairman, Mrs Gordana Comic, on the occasion of the SRS MP, Mr Mark Milenkovic, had just violated the dignity of the National Assembly, which she wanted to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the humiliation and humiliation of the MP, as if he were not doing so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and what he wants to say. The second thing, the President of the National Assembly, is obliged, after the explanation set out in Article 100, when the MP is called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but not to fall into the word of the People's Parliament, especially to a MP who does not use offensive words, does not use swearing, does not use anything that violates the dignity of the National Assembly, insults, etc. That is why you, Madam Chairman Gordana Komic, agree that you know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia extremely well, and that stands, but you abuse it. Unnecessarily delay the time and interrupt the MP's presentation, especially when the MP reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure or indicates something about the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. You, I sat in the O.R., twice mentioned my name, for the first time my name and my last name, to throw. That's not true. The MP of the SRS, Suleiman Spaho, passed and you warned him, and he did not throw you, but told you about you - a beautiful woman, in a superlative, commended you etc. You warned him and warned him, and I told you what he said on his way out of the O.R., and I didn't throw it to you. The second time, I absolutely didn't say anything, and you said my name again, or last name, like I was throwing it away. Finally, when you warn and for the reason of the MP to throw away, the MP who throws away, you should make a distinction, tossing around the Rules of Procedure is not allowed by an MP who speaks for this speaker, not by the chairman, whether it was the President of the Assembly or the Vice-President of the Assembly who is currently chairing. You make a difference even when the MP throws something at you. I agree, you should never throw away, especially say something that is ugly, an offensive word, etc. But something like just before Suleiman Spaho, coming out, saying that you're a beautiful woman, you're warning him and the viewers get the impression that he's really thrown something, something inappropriate, something very ugly, something offensive, who knows what he said. You're exaggerating, and you should have that in mind. Many MPs, from various MPs, tell you to do so, to think about it, and not to do so anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11411	There's no breach of Article 104. I'm referring you to your notes. You can't say you don't need an explanation. (Milovan Radovanovic, from the place: Where does it say?) ) It says in Article 100 that I have a duty to give an explanation to a MP who has been called upon to get word over order and as soon as the previous speaker is finished, and to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. I refer you to the stenogram of the presentation of MP Mark Milenkovic and you will see that there is no basis for your presentation. On the contrary, if you carefully read his presentation to the end, I really suggest that I don't have to explain and read everything he said about the pay phone right now. The word is by MP Ljubisa Petkovic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11412	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to receive answers to some questions about the conflict between Mr. Sutanovac's defence minister and the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army General Ponos, as well as the Minister of Sutanovac. Let me lay the foundation of my questions and say, first of all, that, by very ignorant management, because of the incompetence and indifference of the Minister of Defence, Mr Sutanovac, as well as their associates, the army has become the victim of a daily-political dispute within the ruling coalition, and especially the factions in the DS. The military's reputation is systematically collapsing and large, numerous army-related affairs are being created in the people, and in particular the dissatisfaction of the professional composition of the Serbian Army is being fueled. Let me say that the leadership of all the states of this world, regardless of the political system represented in the state, pay particular attention to the duties of the Chief of Staff, because it is the highest duty in the military, for which significant powers are linked. This is the duty of officers who were led on command duties, who had previously successfully performed the duties of unit commanders on a tactical and operational plan. This rule was also in force in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Army, both in JNA and the Yugoslav Army. But now it's no longer valid, only in this country, only with this power. The current Chief of Staff in his previous military career is the highest commanding duty of the water commander. It's the basic commanding duty of officers after the completion of the Military Academy. He has skipped seven command duties: commander of the troops, deputy commander of battalion, commander of battalion, chief of staff of the brigade regiment, commander of the regiment regiment, chief of staff of the Corps and commander of the Corps or similar operational group, and is directly in charge of the deputy, and then Chief of Staff. Besides, there's been some lightning going on. In six years, from the rank of Lieutenant Colonel to the rank of Lieutenant General, all through extraordinary advances. What special quality does General Ponos have? That's one of the basic questions. Why these qualities have suddenly become visible since Boris Tadic started dealing with the military. Finally, I would like to add, to begin the process of privatising the military by (President: three minutes and 30 seconds). ) The DS is crowned by the arrival of Dragan Sutanovac as defence minister and by placing the elected DS staff on key duties in the military and ministry. As for the military, it can be unequivocally concluded that the frame is favored (President: Four minutes). ) Advantage of DS. I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11413	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11414	I'm reporting from Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and concerning Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's discussion, when she tried to explain that Article 139 is the fifth basis for discussing amendments without the government's opinion. I would like to remind you that this position of article 5 139 states that unless the committees deliver reports, i.e. the Government's opinion on the draft law, the bill will also be considered without these reports, or opinions. However, Article 147 decidedly says "the legislator, the committees responsible and the Government are obliged", so they are obliged, not if they will, but are obliged, "to consider before the National Assembly meetings the amendments submitted on the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which the amendments propose that they be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected". Mrs. Nada Kolundji tried to convince us that we could, and probably now that we're finally at 14.10 p.m., we haven't all got it yet, but we're getting a report from the government, after this received report, Mrs. Kolundji is going to convince us that the 139th is the one on which we were able to work, but at the beginning of the session at 10.00 p.m. you moved the beginning by 12.00 hours, because the conditions of Article 147 have not been met. I guess something that's a condition at 10.00 hours is also a condition at 12.00 hours, 13.00 hours, 14.00 hours, at any time and at any time. So, and this was an attempt, Mr. Maras noted well, you are here with your long comments, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have an obligation to comment, but what your comments are is actually a discussion that you should tell this Parliament and the public of Serbia. It was appropriate for you that this is how the Assembly works, because if there had been no word from the Rules of Procedure, you would have moved the beginning of work again by 14.00 or 15.00 hours until we got the government's opinion. Mrs. Comic, you said you would first receive a report from the government of the presidents of parliamentary clubs, groups, and MPs, and you say - which is in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'm just asking you whenever you call the Rules of Procedure to say where it says so. We're in session, session's in progress. It's not an appointment, so he gets the head of the parliamentary group, and then he gets the MPs at the home address or through the MPs' clubs. The session is under way, half an hour ago or maybe a little more has been given to the presidents of the parliamentary clubs' opinion. How can all MPs use this one copy? Of course, that is neither physically possible, and there is no such obligation in the Rules of Procedure either. So today you showed that you did not want the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia to get the budget, because here at 1415 we got an opinion that we could have here ten hours ago this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11415	There's no breach of Article 104. At 10.00 p.m., the National Assembly had no information that the government had completed an examination of all amendments. That was the reason, by looking at the stenogram you can see for yourself and why the session was postponed until 12.00 hours, and with the previous question whether all the presidents of the parliamentary groups agreed to just start the session and wait for us to get information on whether they had completed all the work in the government and when it would end. At 12.00 hours, I gave information that the National Assembly has information that the Government has completed the examination of all amendments, that it is a technical part of the matter of multiplying opinions to be delivered to all MPs and, with insight into the stenogram, you will see that I have said - of course, if the presidents of the parliamentary groups agree with it, and then every MP who has the right to ask for a word about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the part where you warned me that I made the order for the distribution of materials, you're absolutely right. There is no basis for the presidents of the parliamentary groups to receive material, the government's opinion, before any other MP. I apologize for the inaccuracies that have been made, it was only a matter of notifying that the first ten copies that come out by multiplying that they would be delivered to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Of course, there is no basis anywhere in the Rules of Procedure for any MP to receive any material after any other MP. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Before him, there's a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radet, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11416	I apologize to my colleagues, Buhi and the MPs, I do not wish to abuse the Rules of Procedure, but since you have well explained all that I have made as a remark, first of all, I would like to ask that in the day of voting, the Assembly declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured, you have just admitted yourself that it is, to see how the assembly majority will react. But that's not why I answered. I've called to ask you to come to us on the basis of article 27. Rules of Procedure explain why this break has been moved and I don't know when you're planning to take a break. It's no problem, I know, just don't tell me it's written in the Rules of Procedure for an hour, so you have a discretionary right to determine when that hour will be. It's all right, and it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, but every time the break moves forward or backwards, like now, then every time we get an explanation that's why the break's been moved 20 minutes, half an hour, an hour, as long as it is. Please, for the sake of the public, explain to us what you just threw when someone from the bench asked why there was no pause. You said, now just confirm if I'm right, you threw away and you had no right, nor any of the MPs, that there would be a break until the material was shared, or the government's opinion. So, another proof, the full work of Parliament is directed towards some government programme and for you, the government is the law, instead of being the other way around, and you're saying whether what I said was true is that you said from the scene, that you also moved the pause to get the government's opinion. This is another piece of evidence that the assembly majority in the service of the government of the Republic of Serbia and no one from the assembly majority here has said that the government has been late with the draft budget for 40 days, respected citizens of Serbia. Do not let them lie to you, to deceive you, to say that the problem is that today we are discussing something else or that MPs of opposition parties, above all the SRS, want to talk about their amendments that have been submitted, because we have submitted amendments to show through these amendments what our intention is in relation to the well-being of Serbian citizens. So tell the truth -- the government of the Republic of Serbia is irresponsible, and it is responsible for why Serbian citizens will not have a budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11417	In my previous report, I did not say that article 104 was injured, and I apologized for the inaccuracies about the order in which the material was distributed, so there was no injury that you explained in your previous report. And as for the pronunciation of the infringements by this announcement, under Article 27, I am taking care of the course of the session and, wanting to be applied to every member of the Rules of Procedure and those who are quietly agreed on how they are applied and everyone else, I will set a break on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. You're right, you said yourself, the break is from 14:00 to 15.00 hours. There are still two MPs who want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and that would end this morning's work. Meanwhile, the government's opinion on the amendments has been shared, so that in the afternoon we will continue the discussion in particular, and according to some amendments submitted to the draft budget law. The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Buh, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11418	I am reporting under Article 104, and I am obliged to point out to the public of Serbia that the SRS has submitted a lot of amendments for a reason, given that we have assessed and assessed that this budget is inconclusive and in line with the objectives we have heard, the objectives of the government, that this budget in the saving function, the cuts in costs, mostly in almost all amendments, we went not to profit items, given that the profits of civil servants are small, I am not now talking about the salaries of state officials, but about the salaries of state officials, they are really small, we did not go to profit corrections, we did not go to corrections of other costs, except for those who, in our opinion, have to get laid, which are services under contract, specialised services, travel costs, purchases of materials, grants to non-financial organisations, etc. So, for a reason, we have submitted 115-116 amendments to reduce budget expenditure and we have received the opinion of the Government from which we see that certain amendments have been accepted, other amendments have not been accepted. I don't know why some amendments are accepted, if it's a particular, in my opinion, economic positions that should be seen in general, etc. I think there's a mistake in the government again. If we're trying to save, then we have to define ourselves as the way to choose how to save the most painless, how to cut costs the most painlessly, and not cut profits. We've defined ourselves as the SRS, we're not going to touch the profits right now, we're going to touch those costs that we don't need right now, and that's how we're doing the amendments. Why some are accepted, and some aren't, I don't know. That's probably what you're gonna explain here. Furthermore, the government's opinion will be given to us ten minutes ago. Our amendments ended last week in the office, were made available to the Ministry of Finance and the Government. Why is it waiting so long if we want to adopt the budget in the legal deadline? Since we didn't even get it within the deadline, the opinion of the SRS is that you and you won't adopt the budget, you're going on temporary funding. You'll have an explanation - there, radicals, the opposition went with a lot of amendments. I am responsibly telling you, we have gone in line with your goals, to reduce the budget items we do not need right now and to meet the citizens of Serbia to allocate as little funds as possible. You gave it up, not from the opposition, but from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11419	National MP, it has been said repeatedly that there has been a breach of the budget calendar. Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic made an apology to the Assembly in her opening presentation. So he's not trying to hide what he can't hide, which is that the draft budget bill is 41 days late on the budget calendar, and then of course we're late on our calendar. Your explanation for a member's injury goes more in the discussion of details than in the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11420	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to appeal to Article 104, although strictly speaking, I will be too harsh when I refer to it. Basically, I wanted to replicate to Mr. Delic, who from this pay phone allowed himself to say that at the board session yesterday, held, the word was received by retired porters and some doctors, who are good doctors and are not members of the board. A yellow orange leaf went on and on, so he named my name and said that I was a gynecologist and, of course, I shouldn't speak at the board's session. On the side that I'm a backup supporter of the former JNA, it probably doesn't matter, so it's probably something that disqualifies me. You see, Mr Delic, however we take it, someone thinks it's legal here, someone thinks it's illegal here, doesn't understand the fundamental role of Parliament and the essence. Parliament is a layman's organisation, parliament is a representative, here are representatives of people who are not experts and experts in considering certain areas. It seems that it is not clear to the whole, they call themselves, the MP group, but they think that MPs are experts. No, we've got the Department of Defense counting, it's a hell of a lot of thousands of employees. That's where the experts are. We simply express our opinions here and think, and if we need professional help, then we have lawyers, a legal service that helps us. Therefore, when someone says they should not speak on the committee of someone who is a doctor and someone who is a porter, it is not understood in the essence of parliamentaryism and it is already his problem, but when it is tolerated and it is allowed to be held here, then it becomes a problem and leading this session, so before we have a rather authoritative stance from the chairman, Mrs. Comic, who referred everything to standards of conduct and parliamentary norms. What did I just say yesterday? I only said that if Mr. Posh breaks the law and says what he says in the paper, then it's a problem for the state and for the people, so if there's no communication with the resolute minister, it's an alert call. I said if two actors that are important, and that's the prime minister and the president, are easy to deal with the problem, then we have chaos in the state. That's all I said. Serbia is certainly a country that has not yet differentiated national goals, and certainly is one of the most important preservation of sovereignty and integrity. They won't agree with me if they agree that we're a puppet state. Now, I've said about it, and I just wanted to point to this kind of wrong thinking when we talk about Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11421	The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply at committee meetings and working bodies. During the session, the chair is obliged to first give a word to the MPs of the committee, and only when all the lists of members of the committee who are members of the committee have been exhausted can the Members of Parliament who are not members of the committee be given the word, but have the right to attend and discuss on each of the committees of the National Assembly. Each violation of this procedure constitutes a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11422	Madam President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to urge you to take advantage of your opportunities to interrupt the session and consult with the presidents of the parliamentary groups on the continuation of the work of this session, given that we have received this report on the amendments. The report points to the fact that there is really no commitment with the government to adopt this budget. Of the 240 or 250 amendments submitted to the budget text and gone to the government, the government is ready to accept only 13 amendments. Two hundred thirty amendments were proposed to the Assembly to refuse. Even if the meeting and the debate begin in particular this afternoon, we will not be able to adopt the 2009 budget based on the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly. This isn't about whose amendments are at all. You are not prepared to accept the opposition's amendments, at least in a decent manner, if not in some understandable number. My reporting on this matter is for the public. To draw attention once again, if possible, to the public that I am not expressing myself more difficult, but a perfiduous way of responsibility for the failure to adopt this year's budget, i.e. for 2009, is trying to bring the opposition's burden, primarily the SRS. We will stick exclusively to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the adoption of the 2009 budget. Once again, I insist, the responsibility for the possible failure to adopt the budget is exclusively in the government and in the assembly majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11423	Given that I have information that all present MPs have received a report on the government's opinion, the Committee's report has been included, so that they are met after these technical conditions, all members of the Rules of Procedure that allow our work, so I am setting a break until 15.30 p.m. The afternoon part of the session will continue with the debate on Article 1, with the amendments submitted jointly by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Today, on the basis of Article 85 of Article 5, we will be working after 1800 hours, of course by discussion on the agenda at that time. The MPs rightly warn that I did not give a good time. So we continue at 1535 hours. [[After break – 15.35]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic, the Government and the Committee on Finance did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Parliament of the Prophet Radeta wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure or are you using time for amendments? He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11425	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, 224th and 225th. We started here two days ago a debate that continued yesterday on the Security Committee. I assume you've all had a chance to look back at the stenogram from yesterday's Security Committee session, given that what we had the opportunity to find out in the means of information wasn't exactly in the right way. The situation in the area hasn't changed based on yesterday's session, because what happened on the Security Committee could have been heard by General Ponos, as far as we are concerned about Serbian radicals, we are even more concerned that there are serious problems. The question why Minister Sutanovac did not attend the Committee session is certainly a question to which we are looking for an answer. It is certainly for the members of the Committee and for the MPs at all unacceptable, because ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia should be aware that it is their priority to respond to any call by MPs, whether it is an invitation to parliament for discussion or that it is one of the committees. Of course, we want that thing to be cleared up to the end. A lot of data was made available on the board yesterday by General Ponos, and of course we need to know what's true. He has made very serious accusations, giving some facts, Minister Sutanovac. On the other hand, we have statements by Boris Tadic that are also out of line with his constitutional powers. Obviously, without cover, he brings up some things and claims. We are Parliament and we must have all the facts at our disposal and insist, therefore, on the presence of Mr. Sutanovac, to see exactly what is true of what Ponos said, because if one part of that is true, then Sutanovac can no longer be a single hour, let alone one day, a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11426	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11427	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting to Members 225 and 226, and it's about yesterday's session of the Defence and Security Committee. I don't know if you've paid enough attention to the conclusion made by the Committee, but he's unequivocally saying that the state is in serious danger and is being challenged by civilian control of the military, which means there's a certain concern that the military could have come out of those frameworks in which the Constitution and the laws put it. That's why that session was scheduled yesterday. What's good is that almost all MPs voted for this conclusion, because when everything is considered and everything the Chief of Staff has said in the means of public information and what he said yesterday on the Committee stands unequivocally -- that the army is under the command of the Chief of Staff, this "under the command" I mean conditionally, could come out of the box and come into a situation to take over eventually. Among other things, he wasn't General Ponche yesterday, nor was he hiding one single moment. He confirmed more or less all the allegations he gave, and he said-- I was called to present a discreet and protocolly unsatisfactory dissatisfaction, because there was no willingness in the ministry to solve the problems. It's also very interesting, yesterday the Chief of Staff began to share lessons with both the Assembly and the MPs. He said it would be better if you'd asked the questions I raised instead of me, but you didn't. It also says unequivocally that the Chief of Staff may have thought that the moment not only should he ask questions, but also solve them. You know how the army solves these issues. He says that if you were asking questions, maybe we wouldn't have a satellite case, a vest, and stuff like that. Think of corruption and crime in this country. Also, the Chief of Staff said on that occasion -- I would like to stress that the Army is not a party youth in which imperfect students build a political career based on loyalty and influential officials. The question arises as to who is this and whose party youthed career in the Ministry of Defence or in other ministries, i.e. the state administration. This is just part of the charges the Chief of General Staff made yesterday: if you or someone else's truth hurt, it's a good sign, and if someone's lost their political accounts, I have to say I'm not sorry. Neither am I, but the question is, who are those who are crushed political accounts by the statements of the Chief of Staff? He says our army has been waiting years for politics to say what needs to be done. We're asking you that question today. Also, yesterday on the Defence and Security Committee (President: Four minutes. If you'll excuse me, I think this is extraordinary. If you don't have enough of the Defence and Security Committee's conclusion that there is a serious danger of being able to break out of control by the military, which will say there is a possibility of a military coup, if you think I should stop now, so that I'm reporting several times to bring all these facts about the Committee meeting, I'm going to do this, but this is extremely important, especially because the means of information have given attention to completely non-essential things, related to the events on yesterday's Defence and Security Committee, and they haven't said essentially that the Chief of General Staff has violated the Constitution, that he has violated the laws on the Army and that there is no possibility of still staying in that place. I'm merely stating the facts that point to the fact that Lieutenant General Zdravko Ponos can no longer remain Chief of General Staff. Gentlemen, take a good look at this. He says, the third thing I pointed out is that civilian control of the army is not a sacred cow. Yesterday, the Chief of Staff told the Committee and the Committee's MPs, which means that for the Serbian Army, the head of the General Staff, the Constitution and the laws are not sacred cows. Unfortunately, I have to notice that the Constitution and the laws for everyone in this country must be sacred cows, that absolutely no moment at all we come into a situation where someone interprets them in this way, especially to be interpreted by those who have the opportunity to launch a great force, such as, in this case, the Chief of Staff. He says that nothing in the civil sector should be controlled. Apparently, the Chief of Staff either has no knowledge or won't accept what civilian control is. It is either completely foreign to him or considers that the situation is such that it should not be taken into account at all that he is the Ministry of the Army, or that the military is under democratic and civilian control. These are serious problems, and with that problem, we have to deal with ourselves now until it's too late. What's particularly important is that I don't quote to you everything that the General has resented, completely justified, regarding official documents missing from the military, I would point out those things that the Chief of Staff has brought out, which are things related to huge abuses in the Ministry of Defense on two grounds. One basic is the militarization of the Ministry of Defense. The question arises - what will 15 generals at the Ministry of Defence, what will 120 and some colonels at the Ministry of Defense, what will 10,000 employees do, and in the Army 29, I don't know exactly. The question arises: Is this the Ministry of Defence militarizing, is it the DS creating a party army in this country, is it creating a pandan of Serbia's military? Those are serious questions. We particularly think that what is serious about his objections to Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, abuse by the minister, for numerous corruption affairs, for crime at the Ministry of Defence. We therefore urgently ask the Prime Minister to take this conclusion of the Defence and Security Committee seriously for consideration and to inform the Serbian Parliament about what it will do when it comes to crime and corruption at the Ministry of Defence. I warn you that, if there is a desire and reason in the government, in the DS, the sooner they should come out with these answers by MPs, not only by the SRS, but by MPs of almost all opposition parties, in order for Serbian citizens to get assurances that the government, and the president of Serbia who has promised to interfere, would want to deal with corruption and crime, but, unfortunately, with their circumstances, they will have to, first of all, go into their own ranks. Thank you and forgive me for this length.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11428	The word has an MP, Verica Radet, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11429	Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind the MPs of Article 141. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says firstly that the Serbian Army is under democratic and civilian control. Accordingly, this conclusion, adopted by the vast majority of the present members of the Security Committee at yesterday's session, says, among other things, that because of what has been said forward, the Committee is asking the President of the National Assembly to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to implement the National Assembly as soon as possible on the state of preparation for the country's defence, in accordance with the government's legal obligation under Article 86(4). Defense law. This, as soon as possible, must literally be interpreted and there has been time, since the end of yesterday's session of the Committee to date, that we already have an answer to the question asked by the Security Committee, because the government's interpretation of the short and shortest deadlines cannot be allowed, because if we behave in this way and wait for the Government to determine what the shortest deadline is, then it will be likely to be a delay of 40 days, as is the delay with the proposal for a bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary that, as long as this session is going on, when it comes to such matters, the government must meet in an extraordinary manner, and the government must inform both parliament and the public about what is going on and either to reassure the public that there is no danger, that there is absolute security in the country, or to tell us what these differences mean in the DS between Zdravko Ponoš and Minister Sutanovac. On yesterday's board, a representative of the DS told the chairman of the Committee: "You called this committee, as you yourself said, on the basis of an interview by the Chief of Staff with a daily newspaper. The Chief of Staff is attending today's session, no one from the Ministry attends. Since arguments have been made in different media, I'm afraid we're in no position to get full information today. "It doesn't take much sense, so that it is understood that DS obviously sent only one of the participants of this affair on purpose, that only Ponos came here on purpose, and Sutanovac didn't come, that the debate could not be brought to an end and that the two could not face and bring the true state of affairs to the Army of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11430	The word is made by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to fill in that part of my afternoon presentation and the questions I asked before the break. I would just like to tell the citizens of Serbia that the DS, which is in power from 2000 to today, has failed to depolitise the army, which would otherwise be in accordance with the Law on the Yugoslav Army, in accordance with the Constitution and the principles that all political parties have in their programme. For example, it remains unclear which criteria led the DS to place a person on key duties at the Ministry of Defence. How to explain the choice, for example, Bojan Dimitrijevic, on the post of assistant minister of human resources. He is named by profession as a historian, so he is professionally oriented to the past, and he is placed on a duty to create a personnel force in the future. Then, using the convenient wind of the DS, Zoran Jeftic, current secretary of state, home friend Zdravka Ponosa, suddenly took off high. In the previous division of power, the referent took up the post of assistant human resources minister, which was replaced after the illegal deployment and retirement of a large number of officers, first of all by the 2006 general. Among the selected personnel, Aleksandar Stojanovic, a self-proclaimed G17+ expert, who handles finance at the defence ministry, remained from the previous period. Officers, the older generation, know him as the average from the period when he was in the Air Force Institute "Moma Stanojlović" and are surprised by his sudden resurrection as an expert. According to our findings, all attempts to establish criteria for the management of officers in the service, including retirement, fell into the water by arriving Sutanovac on the duty of the defence minister. In the absence of clearly defined criteria, I have left the possibility of all under the discretionary right of the three key in the decision-making chain - Chief of Staff, Minister of Defence, President of the Republic. If we know the political identity of that three, can we talk about the depoliticalization of the military?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11432	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11433	Article 226. I was surprised by the fact that the Chief of Staff of the General Staff of Zdravko Ponoš said yesterday on the Defence and Security Committee that MPs are not interested enough in living and working and organising in the military, that we are not asking a number of questions to get a number of answers, so that we can make the right conclusions through these answers, but rather, he had to be exposed. I don't know if anyone's been following the work of the Serbian Parliament, but if memory isn't cheating on me, in the past two months, I've asked 12 questions. I asked eight questions about the SOFA agreement, which Serbian President Boris Tadic, otherwise in command of our army, signed with Condoleezza Rice. In these eight issues, I have defined certain concerns, and this is a very serious concern for the opposition representatives, my colleagues from the SRS, because of what Boris Tadic's policy is introducing us to. If we remember that just up until a few years ago we had a number of states in the army between 80,000 and 100 thousand, and now the situation in the military has been reduced to 19,5 thousand, and the state of the Ministry of Defense has increased to 10,000 members, we're coming up with a number of 29.5,000, with a tendency even lower in the number of people in the army. The question arises, how can one country of some 7.5 million people be protected in certain cases of aggression, the threat of terrorism and similar things with only 20 and some thousands of people? We have statements from Ambassador Wardsworth, which announces exactly what is happening through the SOFA contract, or what is being explained through the SOFA contract, that we will not need our army, but the US military will come to protect us and defend us. I have repeatedly asked whether our institutions, referring to Serbia's army, are the institutions of the second order? Are we citizens of the second row, compared to those institutions that come to us from some distance of 10,000 miles? I asked the Serbian government, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Police, even the Ministry of Finance, and I also asked Biji. I got the answers, two of the BIAs. Since they protected their answers with one 15 seals of purple, red, orange, etc., I cannot say what they answered, except that I am absolutely not satisfied with the answer and that their answer confirms our doubts and legitimate concerns. We have statements from Mr. Ponos, who says that there is absolutely no understanding of the military at the Ministry of Defence, and we have concluded from certain events that have occurred over the past few years, that the General Staff or the military have some concept, that the Ministry of Defence has almost no concept whatsoever. I am now asking the question that some government or competent service of the Serbian Army gives me an answer and an expert interpretation of the SOFA contract in relation to our military and our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11434	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11435	Article 226. In Article 97(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The constitution, which speaks of the competencies of the Republic of Serbia, is said to regulate and ensure the defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. It shall then be in Article 139. The constitution, which speaks of Serbia's military jurisdiction, says the Serbian Army is defending the country against armed threats outside and carrying out other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution, laws and principles of international law that regulate the use of force. Article 141 says the Serbian Army is under democratic and civilian control. Ladies and gentlemen, with the latest developments concerning the Serbian Army, you are directly violating the Serbian Constitution. No disrespect for the Constitution is good. However, the violation of the constitution in the Serbian Army has much greater social danger. This is especially in view of the circumstances as long as you have brought the Serbian Army to Serbia lately, from the moment the Serbian Army as military minister was Boris Tadic, until now when Dragan Sutanovac performed the post. What happened in that time? The number of active soldiers and officers has been drastically reduced. A large number of barracks have been lifted throughout Serbia, which simply resemble the ruins, and they are now a self-blind picture of what we used to be proud of. With their orders and direct NATO interference, the forces are directly consecrated, in fact, by the armies of Serbia, for all that the military did during the 1999 savage bombing, when we gave strong resistance to NATO forces and caused him great losses. All events in Serbia's military therefore pose a serious threat to the stability of the defence system and question civil control of Serbia's military, therefore, what is foreseen in the Serbian Constitution. What are you doing about it? You know that saying that two rabbits go after none. So, what did they do? You've actually driven one rabbit to the clearing, and where else is the bigger one? Where are the others? Therefore, the question for the Serbian government -- whether what was done on charges brought by Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, was brought forward by General Zdravko Ponos and we are asking for a committee of inquiry to be formed to examine all relevant facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11436	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I attended yesterday's session of the Defence and Security Committee and I can tell you that the situation and the knowledge I received there, I had added to the knowledge that I had already been deeply concerned. Instead of talking about it, certain wackos, that's how it was, Mr. Batic, certain wackos are complaining that they didn't get citizens to answer their word. However, the situation is neither harmless nor naive, as it tries to present itself yesterday and these days. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last time I said, I studied the creation, development and destruction of military junta once upon a time I studied. This is exactly how Pinochet started. He didn't stand up to Salvador Allende, he stood up to the minister of the military, and after he solved the question of Salvador, he fired. That's exactly how the military junta started in Greece, and the colonels did not oppose the president, but the minister of the military, and then they finished the job. It's exactly the kind of cliché that starts with military blows, cracks and ends as they end. First, the Chief of Staff has nothing to do with the means of information. The Information Service may give a statement of some kind, with the government's approval of the minister. The military minister tells us in the interview - because of the poor defence policy and the extensive understanding of the relationship to the 2009 budget, we will be left with only 5% for the military's operational life. That means no artilleryman will be able to fire his missile. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, who is this message being sent to? Serbian citizens? The ones around? Shiptars in Kosovo? Who is this message sent to? Gentlemen, you can push Serbia, we can't fire any artillery missiles, we can't fire any bullets, we've completely peeled the belly of the state, you can do whatever you want. There's one more thing that's much more dangerous. In the state of Serbia, two armies are created based on an interview by Mr. Ponos. According to the Ministry of Defence, it decides to introduce thousands more people from military-income institutions into its composition, so that the number of conditions changes to the damage of the operating part of the system. The army today has 19 and a half thousand paid men in its composition, and the Ministry of 10,000. He says, I don't know if it's militarization, but the General Staff has 192 colonels, and the Department of Defense 476, the army has 28 generals, and the Ministry of 15. What does that mean? Could Boris Tadic, as president of the state, be calm to watch two of his own burns with each other. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I thank you. Here I go. It can't, what happened yesterday, what happened these days, it requires a shift both of them, or we're gonna bring the state into chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11438	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Articles 225 and 226, and I request information from the Ministry of Finance, linking this intervention by the Ministry of Finance to the orderly statements of the Chief of Staff relating to the financial operations of the Ministry of Defence. In an interview published in "Politics", the Chief of Staff pointed out the following -- I knew from the beginning that the system in which I found myself was not made, but spent money and had to spend it wisely. In this sphere are my biggest regrets to the Ministry, which, due to our poor business in 2008, when we had money, we are now spending money from 2009, which we do not have. Let's just stick to these sentences for a while. The Chief of Staff took the obligation to assess the work of the Ministry and the way and purposeful use of the funds. Furthermore, he points out that in 2008, there was money, he says, and now we're spending money from 2009. The finance ministry must react, send a budget inspection to the Ministry of Defence and check the allegations. Someone's manipulating it. Either the Department of Defense is really unintended and illegally spending funds or the Chief of Staff is false about the work of the Ministry of Defence. But obviously there are certain problems culminating in the work of these two state bodies, state institutions. When the SRS says for a reason that it is the actions of the Chief of Staff who violates the Constitution and violates the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army, it is certainly right. The Ministry of Finance, since it is open statements, attacks on the Ministry of Defence, in order to verify all of this, to see if this is really unintendedly used by funds, must come out and determine whether it is true or not to inform the public about it. This is a difficult qualification. On the other hand, the Chief of Staff points out that there is an open militarisation of the Ministry of Defence and in one part points out that the Ministry of Defence decides to introduce thousands more people from military-income institutions into its composition. By whose approval, by whose means, thousands of people? It goes on, so that a number of conditions change to the damages of the military's operational unit. Does anyone have the right to change certain systems in terms of employment, especially this qualification to be open militarisation? The army, it says, today there are 19,500 paid people in its composition, and the Ministry of 10,000. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) Is the Department of Defense right or wrong? That'll show the results of the budget inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11440	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11441	I think it's article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia simply instructs the President of the National Assembly, the chairman, to start working in line with the conclusions adopted at the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Defence and Security Committee, which concerns these events in relation to the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Serbian Army. I don't want to quote all the views and opinions given in that interview by the Chief of Staff. However, if the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of Defence says it is incompetent, irresponsible, incompetent and arrogant, then the National Assembly must take some measures out of its jurisdiction, and it is certainly minimum to form a committee of inquiry to examine all the facts. Not to determine where the truth is, whether in what the Government decided at the session yesterday, when it supported the defence minister, adopting a report from him, or giving the right to the Chief of Staff, because we cannot tell the Chief of Staff that he is right, since at least ten provisions of the Law on the Army, the Defence Act simply does not allow him to perform in public like this. The Committee rightly concluded yesterday that these developments between the ministry and the military pose a serious threat to the stability of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia and question civilian control of the Republic of Serbia's military. Because if the Chief of Staff can come up like this, then probably at the next stage, he can wear boots, turn on the tanks, there's no big choice, but it's possible anything and everything. Of course, the DS has absolute military control, because the president of the Republic is the president of the DS and commander-in-chief. The defence minister is also from the DS. The government is mostly democratic, and you probably can't convince anyone that the Chief of General Staff is such an extraordinary figure who is disgusted by yellow. I don't want the National Assembly to discuss something that's inside the DS, but I think that after this conclusion of the Defence and Security Committee and after this situation which is probably also media composing, it's because the Chief of Staff wasn't at one reception, but he wasn't even president of the Republic, and I think there's room to include the National Assembly, if not in any more serious way, then certainly by forming a polling committee to examine these (President: three minutes and thirty seconds). ) relations and these relations. Mrs. Komic, I don't know if you noticed, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has fallen. It was a big book, see how the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has now been reduced. Again, for a warning, I'm just warning you that he's shrunk. I don't want to be called to the Constitution, because, God forbid, if I read the provision of the Constitution, I'd probably be punished, some shoes were taken from my children by Mrs. Comic, other shoes by Slavica Đukić. I don't have a chance to throw myself away.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11442	There's no damage to article 27. The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a survey committee shall be submitted by authorised applicants of acts to the National Assembly. By decision of the majority of the draft decision, it shall be included in the agenda and during the debate, the National Assembly shall decide on the composition of the committee of inquiry, and on the basis of a proposal for a decision to set up a committee of inquiry on any subject, members of Rules 74, 75 and 76, so that there is no breach of Article 27. At the moment when you said that a member was injured, we have no information that any of the proposed authorities have submitted a proposal for a decision to set up a committee of inquiry concerning the subject of your presentation. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11443	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Articles 46, 225 and 226. Someone wrote in one newspaper, "The General has no one to write to." However, Mr. Todorovic, as the responsible man and president of the Defence and Security Committee, called Zdravko Ponos, and he wrote to us. In writing, a semiwritten form yesterday, he gave us the essence of what he resented at the Ministry of Defense. He pointed out, all of the electronic and printed media, that it was not his personal conflict with Dragan Sutanovac, and the truth is actually quite different. And so do your colleagues in the DS, and we know who belong to the opposition political parties. It was only a matter of days when that impatience of a year and a half would escalate. Last year, when Mr. Ivica Dacic was chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, we began to deal with military issues. Following the May 11th elections and practically two years ago, taking over the authority of this assembly and the declared Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Defence and Security Committee also took over the board of the former SRJ Assembly, or the SCG State Community. There were some colleagues who were not members of the board, as well as Mr Aligrudic, who is the president of the parliamentary group, and many others, unequivocally Mr. Zdravko Ponos, the Chief of Staff, warned that he had huge problems in functioning at the General Staff-Minister of Defence. He presented data on the militarization of the Ministry of Defence, not that it was a signal enough, but rather an urgent not appeal, but a need to form a committee of inquiry, to establish all facts and who hides everything behind the Words of Pride: corruption, arrogance, incompetence, abuse, etc. I will remind you that at the request of the SRS in the SRJ, Dr Vojislav Seselj, chairing the survey committee, in which your colleague Miodrag Djidic, as the then representative of the DS from Kruševac, has unequivocally identified the facts concerning the killings of the then defence minister, Pavel Bulatovic. At that time, Dr. Vojislav Seselj, since it is a serious matter, because you will realize that the anxiety of the citizens was great, it still is, not only because of those mothers and fathers who now have their successors in the Serbian Army, but because the army is indeed a character, the mark of the state and its sovereignty in the right sense of that word, and we all know best, when a poll appears in any newspaper, whoever is doing the research, always the Serbian Orthodox Church in the first place... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... with citizens' affection, and that's normal, because we in Serbia are most Serbian Orthodox, and then in second place the military. Now make one such poll and you'll see that the result is devastating. For this reason, I apologize for overcoming my time, I believe that the president of the Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic should, on the basis of all this, initiate the establishment of a polling committee. Because it's the only way to get to the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11444	National MPs, the committee of inquiry, as I explained in the mention of Article 27's injury, are not initiated, but a proposal for a decision is submitted to the National Assembly, with the content of the work, with MPs who will participate and by voting the majority is put on the agenda of the National Assembly's session. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly agree with colleagues who spoke about the events in the Serbian Army and certainly that Serbia deserves answers to everything that is happening. As the opposition party we showed responsibility yesterday, the president of the Committee called the Committee and I think it will be only the first step in a series of those who expect us when it comes to the Army. Now I would like to exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 226, and from the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the competent authorities, to answer the question of what has the Government done or what is it going to do about Belgrade's slave houses case? Madam Minister, it's a good thing you're here and we'll discuss the budget afterwards. I think it will be a challenge for you too, given that the issue of the Slave Houses is, above all, expected in the financial sense next year, and it's very good for you to give an answer to what you're going to do with those people waiting for their rights to come true. In fact, ten days ago, I had the opportunity to be in a delegation of the SRS who spoke to these people, who were promised to be admitted to the government of the Republic of Serbia at some decent or envious level. Not to belittle anyone and to their misfortune there was welcomed by the Deputy Secretary of the Government, as it is already called, you wouldn't mind if I made some lapus and by the impressions of the people who passed it on to us from the Slave Houses, the government gentlemen were very unpleasant and untasteful. Disillusioned have left the government, come to the Assembly and searched in our parliamentary group of receptions, we received them, and we spoke. From before, I don't know how many days ago they found their new home address at Andric's wedding, or park outside the Serbian presidency. Today they also had a hearing and they were revolutionized and they were disappointed to come to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I assume you've all heard and seen them. The whole protest or all those people were in front of the National Assembly building and we were also in a position or in a position to "talk" with them. People talk about robbery, talk about fraud, talk about the fact that they can't exercise the rights they objectively received in court. Accordingly, I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the authorities, to pass on my question and to say what they have done since the time when people from the Slave Houses of Belgrade have pointed out the robberies and embezzlements when they have started protesting to date the representatives of the executive government in Serbia and what they intend to do in the coming year to meet people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11446	The word has a message from Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Honored Madam Minister, on behalf of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 1 as a member of the NS Group, which we have submitted to the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, I am obliged to read their letter for the public of Serbia, which is, in fact, following the act of the amendment. "The general collective agreement was concluded on 29 April 2008, it was published in "The Official Messenger" on 9 May 2008, and entered into force on 17 May 2008. The signatories of the General collective agreement are the Union of Employers of Serbia, as a representative association of employers, and representative unions of the Union of Independent Unions of Serbia and the United Border Union of Independence. All three participants in the conclusion of the General collective agreement on 7 May 2008 submitted a request by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to, in agreement with the provisions of Article 257. The labour law, which is to decide on the extended action of the General collective agreement, is to apply it to all employers in the Republic of Serbia. The participants in the conclusion of the General collective agreement considered that, for the extended fact of the General collective agreement, they were in agreement with the provisions of Article 257. The labour law, there is a legitimate interest, and in particular for the achievement of economic and social policy in the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure equal working conditions that represent the minimum labour rights and work-based rights, thus contributing to preventing unfair competition. From May to November 2008, the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia led negotiations, agreed views and analysed the possible effects of applying the general collective agreement to all employers in the Republic of Serbia. As a result of the agreement, the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia recommended that the participants of the General collective agreement conclude an annex of the General collective agreement that would reduce the amounts of regression and a warm meal by one quarter and 25%, respectively. On the basis of the recommendation of the Social and Economic Council, participants in the conclusion of the General collective agreement on 6 November 2008 conclude the General Agreement Annex, which reduces the amount of a warm meal, food compensation from 20% to 15% of the average earnings in the Republic, and the regress for the use of annual holidays from one average profit to 75% of the average earnings in the Republic. The general collective contract annex was published in "The Official Messenger" on 11 November 2008, with effect from 1 January 2009. Following the conclusion of the Annex to the General collective agreement, the Social and Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia gave a positive opinion to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and on the basis of all three participants in the conclusion of the General Collective Treaty to decide on the application of the General collective contract to all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy has made a decision on the application of the General collective agreement to all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the demands of participants in the conclusion of the General collective agreement and the positive opinion of the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia. The decision to apply the General collective agreement to all employers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was published on 11 November 2008, and applied from 1 January 2009. We note that six Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia participate in the work of the Social-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia, while the president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was actively involved in the negotiations, as well as the corresponding number of experts from the Government of Serbia and relevant ministries. However, it has not been 20 days since the publication of the extended fact of the general collective agreement, and some representatives of the government have begun to make statements that the 2009 budget will not provide funds for the payment of regress and a warm meal for employees whose earnings are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget because there are allegedly no financial opportunities. The chairmanship of the Union of Independent Unions of Serbia considers that the government of the Republic of Serbia's conduct is inadmissible, and missing funds can be provided with consistent compliance with legal rules on the collection of unpaid taxes and contributions to a large number of businesses, including a significant number of privatised entities. On the other hand, if the funds are really missing for these purposes, let the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose that the funds paid for the regression and a warm meal at the level established by the General collective agreement be released from the corresponding taxes and contributions. Respectfully, the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia. "In addition to their recommendations, I'd just like to make another little suggestion. Perhaps this problem could be considered in a way that the famous four large cabinets of the vice-presidents of the Republic of Serbia are a little tight, a little tight and show a good will to put those who are directly users of the Republic of Serbia's budget in this way in line with themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11448	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgenka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs Tabakovic's Yorgovanka.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11449	Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, have the rare and unusual honour to inform the public about the amendments submitted to the budget law that by the goodwill of the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, and probably the rest of the government, for the first time, the job of writing the amendments has been made sense. Honestly, I have to say, for the first time, writing amendments makes sense. Two out of four amendments were submitted two years ago, and I think they show a fundamentally different approach to spending and controlling funds into the budget. For these amendments, the government didn't make sense, and I'm going to understand this as a good start for a joint effort to allow citizens when the funds are insufficient, to take care of every dinar that needs to go to the right place. That's exactly what I'm gonna start with. In Article 9, you will not resent me for talking about Article 9, because in fact I want to generally pass on as the position of Parliament's Club Forward Serbia that we will not delay the debate, which is not pointless, but which has resulted in the adoption of the amendment and that we will simply suspend the work of the Government and let the government finish the work on this. That is why I am taking the opportunity to say that the Government has adopted the amendment to Article 9, where we have asked that the Government cannot, by any means, establish new obligations for which there is no certainty that from the current budget reserve, they can be implemented. I really want to believe that this is a good start to talk about the guillotine regulation, which we have been listening to for a long time from Minister Dinkic, comes across the practical application of Mrs Dragutinovic. This means when you start to cut down the excess law, you always start with decisions, regulations, conclusions that are at the level of decision by ministers and lower bodies than this home. So lower than the law. Here's a practical way of keeping the budget from the will of any individual that by some regulation, which can really be passed in the innermost circle, means regulations and in the Government, it spends a single dinar of budget resources. An amendment was also adopted to Article 11, where the government predicted that direct and indirect budget beneficiaries using the business space do not pay rent in 2009. Managed by problems that most of the rooms used by federal authorities, and republicanly, continue to be owned by a number of state authorities, organisations, administrations and agencies, are occupied, and that the State Auditing Institution does not have the right space, where it could do a job that we all declarely advocate, we in the Parliament Club Forward Serbia, just managed by such practices and excuses heard in public about the lack of space, we wrote the amendment that the Government has a deadline of 30 days from the day of adoption of the Budget Law to make a plan for use and availability of space, and that is based on established priorities. So let me see, gentlemen of my fellow citizens, if anyone dares to do so by law, the Budget Law, does not execute and does not allow, for example. The state audit institution is working space, and we all expect it to start from the control of budget spending and the control of money spending in public enterprises, so we will no longer have the opportunity to guess what someone's final accounts are, whether someone's salaries are in accordance with the law, we will get a report from the authorized body that we've chosen here. The government has also adopted an amendment to Article 12, where it has given itself the right to exceptionally decide to write off the loan it paid from the budget to one of the budget users or legal entities. It seemed to us to give the government the right to deprive the budget of any funds that should have gone into the budget, and without criteria, not that it was not good, but rather an inadmissible principle that allowed discretionary rights, looking through fingers or what the people would say about protection. In order to avoid it, we have asked the government to do so by amendment, to have the right to do so, but to do so on the basis of the criteria they will determine and determine only the Ministry of Finance. So, looking at the budget of the revenue recorded is not possible and someone will also have to stop for such decisions by signing criteria, but also by approving each individual user of the funds. That's not the end of it. What I consider to be the greatest success of Ms. Diana Dragutinovic is an amendment to Article 30, which otherwise regulated the merger of 5% of the privatisation funds that go towards restitution. I have submitted the amendment, and this is the key that I have endured for the third time in the Assembly, to actually introduce a control of the privatisation funds that the Privatisation Agency is paying into the budget only after it has set up financial advisors, for which we do not know how to choose, legal advisers, for whom we do not know how to choose, while the costs of prospectuses, advertisements, publication abroad and all the accompanying costs of privatisation, and only then that change, for which we never know how original it is until the deduction of those costs really amounted to, is the payment of the budget. The amendment to Article 30 has been adopted and will now be adopted by the finance minister, but also by the committees responsible in the Assembly, to receive a report seven days after the sale of what a percentage of the funds is. Gentlemen who thinks I'm going to be sore as to speak louder, to explain in addition to this noise what the opposition did and what came to the government's understanding, this only shows that the story of the money being poured into this budget is sometimes less important than the personal relationship with an misunderstood colleague or colleague, who takes his engagement politically not as a relationship of hatred, not as a personal relationship to a person, but as a relationship of concern to his children and to generations. The fact that the citizens think I'm talking a little bit of an elevated tone, that's not even proof of my energy, which I apparently own in my work, is the need for my fellow Members in the Assembly to hear me and I really thank them for the effort that they make to, despite this noise, hear what I have to say about the amendment. However, Madam Minister, there is much work to be done. It remains the most important job that you generally have to break, which is to finance the liabilities by passive means, to settle the debts, which is the practice we still have in the budget. It remains to break the practice of showing us guarantees that have fallen on the burden of the budget, which have been guaranteed by the state by some important infrastructure, for example. a project or capital expenditure. That when the guarantee falls on the burden, the state does not lose the right to regress from the one it vouched for. So, some public enterprise, Serbia's roads, clinical centres, doesn't matter which one of the users, remains with the obligation to settle their basic debt. The remark is next. If you asked us to vote or even vote, but this home had to have a majority, to approve such loans, without giving us an assessment of the effects of that loan, an assessment of the risk of the viability of these loans - it increases doubts in otherwise common practice that the guarantee falls on the burden. If we have approved certain loans here, and we didn't know how much they really cost, because these prices have been covered up, and if you are obliged to only give credits to those who, for example, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Development Bank, the German development bank KFW, to give them a report on that project management unit that will have meetings at the level of the week, and with this budget we have one such credit. It means that they report on the use of funds on a weekly basis, on the effectiveness of these funds, on whether they are spent on purpose and whether they go for the intended funds -- dynamics, repayment deadlines, so do we ask too much if, through the established Public Debt Administration, this assembly, with a budget which, I confess, has extraordinary technical improvements, deliver an assessment of the effects of each of these loans, a risk assessment in terms of currencies. Citizens know, because of the heated story of whether to be in debt in Swiss, euro or dinars, when it comes to private debt, and the minimum when a citizen is in debt, so as to assess whether his salary is enough to survive and whether there is anything left to pay off credit when he enters a credit obligation -- I guess the state can do that for the national representatives. So, the only reason why I insist on the debt problem as a passive from which the severance is refinanced is because you're trying to use accounting techniques, and referring to international accounting standards, you're actually hiding -- that only the possibility of a budget depends on the amount of borrowing for someone who really wants to repay the loans. It's one thing if you intend to be an ideal debtor and we're mostly standing on the counters of some international institutions that exist and only make sense as long as there are us looking for credits. But I am convinced that the future of this country is not that we base our development on loans, but on savings, and that we could also ask citizens to spend as much as they earn in times of crisis, you have to understand that the budget depends on income, the budget depends on citizens' salaries. If their jobs are shut down, if there's no pay, there won't be any revenue in the budget, there won't be any funds to repay the loan. However you run, off-balance sheet, in a separate table -- it's a debt and we have to raise citizens that only from saving can they live long, fair and steady, and the budget is the first lesson we learn to spread just as much of our gum. Thank you. During this presentation, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11450	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Lapcevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11451	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment to the first proposed budget. Before we begin to explain this amendment, I would like to refer to one thing that is happening here in the immediate vicinity of the National Assembly, in front of the National Assembly, in front of the cabinet of the president of the state. Namely, a large number of former workers of Belgrade's Robing Houses have been protesting and seeking their own rights here for days, freezing in this disgusting time, and no one has found it appropriate to listen to these people, to receive them, to appeal or to call myself president of the Assembly to the Privatisation Committee of the National Assembly, to hear the arguments of the people who have been protesting for days and to reconsider and to see if these people are right. Therefore, there is no reason for these people to be exhausted, to create an unhealthy atmosphere in front of the National Assembly, without taking steps that are within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and the competent committee. That is why I ask you to transfer it to the President of Parliament and to influence the meeting of the Privatisation Committee, to receive a delegation of workers of the Robe Houses and to consider their arguments. As far as this amendment is concerned, I have suggested that by correcting certain positions in article 5 of the expenditure party, which is of course related to Article 1, which we are now talking about, the total budget deficit is reduced by some 627 million dinars. In response to this amendment, the Government said that a reduction of expenditure, i.e. expenditure in the general part of the budget, was to be proposed and this reduction of expenditure should have been highlighted in a specific section. I did, but probably the government or the board of directors didn't see it or consider it. Of course, this article and the amendment to this article must be linked to the general part of the budget set out in Article 5. In it, in certain positions, I suggested that some items related to direct consumption be reduced, mostly in the cabinets of Deputy Prime Ministers, cabinets of ministers and certain expenditure on specialised services, buildings, construction facilities and the like. When summed up, in Article 5, the total savings would be about 627 million dinars, which for this budget, as seen in the general figures, in absolute terms is not a huge savings, but you will admit that in times like this and when a budget that has a huge deficit is proposed, any savings is desirable. Last year's budget deficit was 45.8 billion, if I recall correctly. This year's budget deficit is proposed to be 49 billion. What does that tell us? This could say that the budget deficit refers to increased state spending or reduced state revenues. The revenue side of the budget lists certain positions, which I honestly think are very optimistic and will be difficult to meet, for one simple reason why the minister herself has confirmed - that over the last three months, since the economic crisis has arrived in our region, budget revenues are somewhat smaller than usual and what is planned. At best, that's said in interpreting budget rebalances in December, that income should be around 52 to 55 billion. December is the month in which incomes are 120 or 130% higher or 20-30% higher than in some month of the year. If this best scenario were applied, the next year we have a budget of 50 billion and a few billion, the maximum the state could earn in the next year is, by that estimate, the best and most optimistic, 650 billion. It is proposed in the budget that we have revenues of 700 billion and expenditures of 750 billion. I'm afraid that's going to be difficult for a number of reasons. First, what the deficit or most of the funds the state is spending is not aimed at the largest part of subsidising economy and consumption, which could prevent damages from the economic crisis, but rather reduced expenditure in the budget, compared to the previous budget, proposed for subsidies in the economy and subsidies in agriculture. From last year's budget, we had 48.5 billion subsidies, for the following year it was proposed that total subsidies be 40 billion, down 100m euros. The economy is down from four to three billion, and agriculture from 25 to 18. The worst agriculture in this budget has passed, and there is no need to repeat the syntagma that has been heard a thousand times here, that agriculture is one of our basic branches and that agriculture depends heavily on both life and the standard of citizens, especially on budget filling. What, specifically, did this amendment of mine refer to, which suggests reducing the deficit by 627 million dinars? He's more symbolic than he might essentially change some things in the budget, but I wanted to show by this amendment that certain small corrections or savings are possible, where possible, where possible, that the needs of the state authorities, ministry services or vice-presidents of the government do not suffer, and that by adding these small figures to several items, there is a certain savings in the budget, because certainly no dinar is for waste, nor is this figure of 627 million dinars. Just illustrating, a few data. The cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Dacic has 72 million dinars for next year, this year is 17.5 in six months, or a double figure would be 35 million for the whole year. I can't believe there's no room to save. Mr Dinkic's gone from 29.5 million to 60 million dinars. With the Deputy Prime Minister on Social Affairs from 10.5 million to 50 million dinars. If it was a double number for a whole year, it would be 20 million dinars, and it went to 50. I really don't know for what purposes Krkobic will spend 50 million dinars. If only the authorities take a look and analyze items for travel and service costs per contract, it is 24 million in Dacic, at Djelic 25, at Dinkic 27, and at Krkobiæ 18 million dinars. You will have to admit that it is very comfortable figures and I think that those people who proposed the budget, first of all the Deputy Prime Minister, the president was somewhat more modest, the ministers looked everywhere to save on certain items of budgetary users, but in their items concerning services under contract, travel costs and other things, they did not save, but they saw that these figures were maximum and maximumly high. When all this is collected, the cost of the cabinets of the Prime Minister, the vice-president, the secretary-general, comes to a figure of 730m dinars for this year, and a figure of 966m dinars is proposed next year, which is more or less three million euros for 236m dinars. Well, I'm sorry, if you want to design a budget that needs to be thrifty, because that's the kind of time you have to save on yourself first. The first people of the government, the president, the vice-presidentate, must deny themselves certain privileges, if he wants to explain, that the whole burden of transition, the whole burden of the crisis, which will clearly be visible in the next year's budget, must be redistributed by having the first one carry most of the burden, and also by reducing certain figures to others, especially if the revenues are difficult to achieve. I am afraid that it will be perhaps even smaller than it is this year, because the economic crisis will not be subsidized enough through the budget, loans are very high, or interest rates for loans, and the number of employees in Serbia is decreasing, and revenues in the budget are the largest of VAT, of the income tax and some other items. As for the other high costs associated with certain ministries, they are obvious in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The Dinkic ministry envisions an increase of 36.8 billion dinars this year, projecting 44.5 billion or 7.7 billion more over the next year, which is almost 100m euros. From this point on, in the division of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, nine items mention the items of subsidies to public non-financial organisations and the acquisition of non-financial assets, that these items are carried out under a special programme of the Government, uneducated in the budget, and the total amount available to Mr Dinkic, available without the knowledge of the Assembly and the general public, is 23 billion dinars. I'm afraid it's too large a number of ministers, even if Mr Dinkic was also called, that he can have no control at all, that in that ministry, besides the 27 million dinars mentioned for contract and travel services, there are 518 million dinars for the same purposes within the ministry. This was in the cabinet, and this is within the Ministry. If that's the way to reduce the deficit in the budget or save in this country, then I obviously missed out on the subject. I think it's too much of a deficit and that the finance minister had to be a little more firm and not allow such excessive cost and cabinets of vice presidents, and certain ministries, and to make every effort to, in addition to what is needed, which is the revenue side to increase and improve, to minimise the unnecessary expenditure in the budget of ministers, vice-presidents and certain ministries. I ask you to reconsider this amendment of mine or similar which appeals to reduce unnecessary costs and thus reduce the deficits in the budget because you will not only reduce the costs of the state, but perhaps through redistribution help to subsidise agriculture or give favourable loans to the economy, which can have a cumulative effect on reducing the overall deficit and increasing living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11452	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Miss Jovanovic, then Mr. Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11453	Mr. Novakovicu, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is just the beginning and this is what counterpart Lapcevic was talking about, in some ways, the concept of the SRS when it comes to our strategy of directing money from budget users for 2009. I really don't understand. We had a case like this, didn't we, Mr. Buha, when they were amendments to budget rebalancing, that we, as under the Indigo Government of the Republic of Serbia, were referring to Article 10. The budget system law, each of us proposings says that we should keep an eye on, if we take something from someone, that we must be on the revenue and distribution side in the general part of the budget to take care of it. Mr. Lapcevic now said that in the manner I can say, drunk billionaires, Dinkic, Djelic, Boris Tadic and other clicks from the government spend so much money. Krkobic, that is now a new name in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I say new and especially potentiate him? He should be the most thrift, is that so, fellow Lapcevic, because he is a pensioner and should take care of all the pensioners of Serbia. We were on a personal case, while sitting, Mr. Novakovic, as chairman, as the oldest fellow MP, convinced that he would not be so thrifty. You can also see from the arguments of counterpart Lapčević that Krkobic is not. Remember at the moment when the very important debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in Strasbourg, was under way, we were returned to the falcon that Krkobibic sent for us, or the state of Serbia, the National Assembly, however, with the approval of the then secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to attend the election of the National Assembly president. It doesn't matter, it's forgotten how much it costs, and that's all you've calculated to get credit for a Serbian peasant? That's all he said about his colleague Lapcevic as the most urgent thing in Serbia. If you're talking now, since Djelic was in the ashes the other day, because you know first he said, Mrs Dragutinovic, so you had to iron that statement and some others, right, you as an expert and responsible person wanted to say that it wasn't quite so. When this global crisis occurred and the financial collapse on the US Stock Exchange, the Russians recognized it before us, because just a few days before, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister of the Russian Federation, said that a global force cannot survive on what will always be as the largest printing press to cost money, and in return there is no possibility of a development system and that banks operate in such a way. Then Bozidar Djelic told us that it suits us, that we have our developmental chances, according to the system of our proverbs - in and out of their beaks, and what happens now? There is no access to many funds, there will be no possibility of taking some favourable loans, which were also favourable. Who's going to take care of the Serbian peasant? We have been asking this question for 18 years since there has been reportedly democracy in Serbia and elected representatives of the people are sitting in this parliament. How could one government, any government, be able to reach out to the Serbian peasant and host and ask him - what do you need without being a member of G 17 plus, not being blackmailed by an earlier minister, then by a member of DS, Milosavljevic? The interesting thing I want to do now is to check, with some more information, there is an indication that Slobodan Milosavljevic owns an apartment in Savina, in Herceg Novi. You who go to Serbia's Boca know that this is one of the most beautiful parts of the city of Herceg Novi, and the small thing is that the apartment costs nothing less than a million euros. You can see who's running Serbia and who's taking care of the Serbian peasant. A few days ago, Mr. Novakovic, here for astonishment, I don't know what kind of thing to talk about, it's funny, I've raised a question of inspection supervision, when we're already talking about the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, about exploitation, smuggling and the destruction of river streams of Drina, Great Morava and West Morava and so on. "scrat" of the affair. Someone started laughing, so what are they talking about, what kind of gravel, what kind of sand, so you can see how they're stealing. Yesterday a gentleman from the Ministry of Agriculture called me, I really can't remember my last name at this point, so I won't even say my name, and he told me that in the coming days I should expect a written answer to the asked question, but that I was absolutely right when I raised that question from the assembly booth, as far as the big mob, which apparently appears to be small, and it's not. In addition to the erosion of our riverbeds, he destroys and purchases the estates of these villagers on the banks of the rivers mentioned above. A man told me yesterday, called me somewhere at this time, introduced himself nicely, and said he was calling from the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, not only are you right, but we're trying to find a mechanism, that based on over 200, I think he's told me 214, so far, a report from people who are and how they've noticed that this is a major problem in the state we're reacting. But when to react and why not so far? Because of our system, because of the control of work and because of the authority of certain state authorities, it was fenced in advance and said that there was work for the Office to fight organised crime, for the police, for market inspection and for the inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management. With us in Šumadija, peasants from the village of Šumadija have not received anything in the past eight years since DOS was in power, as these ministers have changed and how the budget is created. Unlike all of you, the SRS, and unlike these politicians, who every year tell the same story, we take this problem seriously. Now I'll tell you, we're in the town of Kruševec in power, in a coalition with the DSS and the SPS. Only in the town of Kruševec there is an expert team to deal with the problems of agriculture from the Rasin County, and only at the level of our party... Mr. Milivojevic, I don't know if you're responding to the mention of your hometown or the fact that we're seriously dealing with agrarian policy from a local level. So there is, there in Krusevec, where Mr Azdajkovic of the DSS mayor, his deputy Mr. Radovan Milovankic of the SRS, is very serious intensities of local pear authorities to help the villagers, that the agrarian budget that will create a municipality in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, when the state is already not doing it systematically, helps these people, because these are all people worth it. A colleague, Lapcevic, is with the best intention and warning that those who are carriers, first of all, executive authorities, and these are listed by individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should not be hidden from Contact 422, 423, 424 - travel costs, specialized services, contract services, because those two, in particular, can be said by the representative, I do not know if he was still, but last year he was, a certain Househofer from the IMF, a non-transparent cont. What's behind that? Don't, Mrs Dragutinovic, we don't have the final budget bill for 2001, and you didn't allow, or you gave the recommendation, not you, but the past minister and the pre-passed local self-governments, which also create a budget under that Budget System Act, to track down all this. I'm telling you, Mrs Dragutinovic, there are the greatest abuses. Let the budget inspection come only to the town of Kragujevac, to see. The town of Kragujevac has many other cities and municipalities, which do not have city status, but are approximate by population and territory, of course a huge budget. What do we know is what's behind this? What specialized services? What kind of favors under contract? That when you add in the budget items, that's hundreds of billions. We really want to try to convince you, and we will continue all these days as the debate continues on amendments, that when this situation has taken place, we cannot, and we warn for years, to rely on unfavourable loans, that citizens are in charge, and that food and agriculture is what Serbia's future is, that it is the strategic branch of our economy. One billion, working for example, invested in agriculture, the euro, can return multiple years from now. Because despite all that we have survived the worst possible sanctions, which the villains have bombed us for 78 days, we still have a healthy country, healthy air, we have enough water and valuable and honest people, a valuable Serbian peasant, who needs to get a lot more than the state, to survive a family in the country, because today we have a case that people are mass evicting, that villages remain desolate and that in villages that have schools hundreds of years old now there are no more single students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11454	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11455	I would like to begin by saying that the debate on this draft budget law has really started in a very bad atmosphere and more or less, representatives and opposition, but also the positions have highlighted the fact that the delay in adopting the government, so as to refer the draft budget law to the National Assembly and how it has created a tense atmosphere in both the public and the National Assembly. The principle debate was concluded, but today we were faced with a delay again. The debate lasted all day, especially in the afternoon, why the government of the Republic of Serbia failed to deliver an opinion on the proposed amendments. Then when it is discussed, what would be one of the characteristics, along with a series of characteristics that we cannot assess well the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the fact that everything she has done so far is related to delays. The delay in the draft budget, the delay, here today, in giving an opinion on the proposed amendments by the MPs, the delay in the measures that respond to the economic crisis, we talked about this also when the debate on the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was, these days, we see a delay in drawing up a defence strategy, a delay in the laws needed for European integration and putting Serbia on the White Schengen list. Even the Prime Minister said that a number of strategies and laws were not adopted by the Government, which are necessary to implement these affairs, the delay, which should be a really serious debate, with the harmonisation of a series of laws and regulations with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we have in the norms that are in the law to enforce the Constitution, so-called. Constitutional law, which is all the laws that need to be harmonised, a delay in privatisation and a number of other things that now create a tense and difficult political situation in society and here in the National Assembly. In that sense, it is this atmosphere that has been on the table for days on which to discuss the budget and the tension whether because of all these old ones, especially because of the way the government has joined this business, in general the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be adopted. The amendment tabled by DSS MP Nenad Popovic refers to a section concerning the increase in excise duties. I would like to point out one debate that has been held here several times in the National Assembly, which is also not only of economic nature but also of political nature, which is the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to join a unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We have pointed out from a political point of view a major problem and a very controversial decision by the Government to enter a unilateral application, as this would be the first case known, when it comes to countries that have entered into the European integration process, that on one unequal basis one contractual relationship is treated by only one party applying it, and the second, because of a number of political conditions, it does not want it. Of course, we have criticised the very act of signing that agreement. We also cited political reasons why it was not good to sign at that moment first, and then ratify it in the National Assembly and then enter into another truly devastating decision, both politically and politically, on the country's dignity and in general want to be a partnership for the EU, rich and economically and how bad the decision is. The fact that Serbia's economy, that Serbian companies, that Serbian producers, because of a number of reasons in the 1990s for sanctions, and after that because of some other decisions and perhaps non-consistent policies, when it comes to strengthening our economy's competitiveness policy, we failed to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy, our companies, our entrepreneurs, our producers, to compete evenly in this difficult competition that Serbia and Serbian businessmen should enter with EU companies. On the side of this one decision, we are entering a process that directly affects the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. More than once here, it has been pointed out how much losses will be caused by the unilateral application of the SAA, which directly, indirectly, is estimated at around 300m euros. Then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, making such a political and economic bad decision, even though the real goals, are that we practice in the process of European integration, which really seems funny for one serious country, have not presented any other effects as positive, are looking for ways to solve this huge loss in the revenue side. Then it solves it this way by increasing excise duties, directly burdening the standard of living of citizens. Now we're going back to that statement by the Prime Minister, who said he wouldn't live any better or worse. The statement came after a number of other statements, which was seen as an attempt to amortise statements by some other ministers, who may have been more honest that we would fight not to be hungry, naked and barefoot. These are the same statements by individual ministers in the government. Then this is how an excise policy tries to solve the problem of poor political and economic policy when it comes to unilateral application of the SAA, directly burdening the citizens' budget and directly affecting the citizens' living standards. The question now arises whether bad political decisions should result in citizens living worse. This is the essence of the debate on this budget, which is defined by the budget with very high public spending, whose way of realization will be difficult and very controversial, and especially now that we have heard through a series of discussions how much the costs of individual cabinets will be, which we were talking about when this government was formed, when the ministry law was passed. After a political division within the ruling coalition, it was clear that public spending must be increased inevitably and such problems must inevitably arise, i.e. The pressures of individual officials within the government to make their demands, their cabinets, especially here on the vice-presidents of the government, but also on the cabinet of the large, bulky Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, to the fullest extent possible. Then we get into these problems so that by increasing excise duties, by changing tax policies, all other possible burdens are brought into one serious problem to satisfy the appetites of coalition partners and to cover up the political failures of the decision on unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That's what this budget is about. That's what the atmosphere in which this budget is real. That's why he was 40 days late. The tension within the government and the differences that existed within the government, when it comes to unilateral application of the SAA and when it comes to the settlement of individual UN positions in various state bodies, I primarily think in the ministries. This amendment is an attempt to correct one bad decision, to try to rationally look at how a possible correction of these excises can be achieved and thus, unanimously and projected macroeconomic policy, but also projected inflation, remains at the level that can at least preserve life, the standard of life of citizens and so much so that it is not at the expense of all those people who, for days in front of the National Assembly, demand all the rights they are promised, which during the election campaign, especially after the formation of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11456	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11457	These first few members of the draft budget law with mom's right to focus. In order for the public to know, I must draw attention to the fact that almost all MP groups have submitted amendments. This is a group of amendments to the DSS, these are amendments to the ZES parliamentary group, then we have amendments to the NS parliamentary groups, we have again amendments to the ZES, one amendment to the SPS, probably still exists. We still have this many amendments to the SRS. I hope you give this to Mrs. Nadia Kolundji, because she didn't bring her copy, so she can follow the discussion, so she doesn't stick to the laptop, anything can happen to her. Of course, I expect your readiness, Mrs. Kolundjia, since you started this session this morning with an appeal that we all show great willingness to adopt the budget. Since I have concluded that there is absolute readiness on your part, I count that you are in the same proportion and are ready to accept these amendments, specifically this amendment by Popovic, then the next one submitted by Mr Buha, is even more important. Mr. Buha has submitted an amendment that means 20 billion direct savings. So there's no Chile-Mille, it's just enough to raise your hand for Mr. Buha's amendment and all the problems are solved. It's shrinking the deficit by, I think, about 20 billion dinars. For Serbian citizens, nothing better can happen than what Mr. Buha predicted. I must also commend this amendment to Mr Popovic for which I answered. I agree that the amendment has some legal-technical shortcomings, but I think it's a good idea, because that amendment is increasing, if I may say so, the original revenues of the budget, and it is revenue based on excise duties and customs. You're in line for why this amendment is not accepted, you've brought out something that's your projection, but I need to draw attention to you that this government is prone to bad projections. You admitted it yourself here. If you could follow me, that's on page 16, that's your table, where you give some of your plan. According to the 2009 and 2010 Memorandum, you planned an inflation of 6% in 2009 in 2010 5%. Now you've made a new projection, so it will be 8% in 2009, 6.5% in 2010, exports, imports of goods, etc. You can see there's a big difference in your judgments. So, if you say, based on that assessment of your amendment should be rejected or not accepted, we are in the field assuming what would happen if it were. Until a few months ago, no one knew there was a global financial crisis. They knew some people who read about how some banks were killed a year and a half ago in the Netherlands and what was predicted and planned, what was expected. But it's been an election year, it's welcome to the Fiat, it's welcome Russian gas, it's welcome that pensions are 70% of the salary. It was all welcome. Then they kept quiet about what was coming. Now, when that's expected, probably in three months, that's gonna rain on us, you're already changing all the estimates. So I'm not treating your rejection of the amendment as something extremely serious. Why? Here, a few days ago, the Pride opened his heart, so he explained how much the Defense Department was the other army. We have two armies: one under the command of the General Staff and the other under the command of the Ministry of Defence; 60% of the paid are here compared to that over there. So, we have one army that will have the Sutanovac, another army that Tadic will have. Both armies are democratic. We've heard it's incompetent personalities, we've heard that based on the state's exchange rates in 2008 alone, it's lost 400 million dinars. That's how the Chief of Staff wrote, if you've read the interview, I've got it, let me give it to you. (loud from the O.R.): That's not true. The Chief of Staff wrote, don't tell me when I quote what he wrote. Put him in jail if he cheats, if he turns the people on, if he's making unnecessary rebellion. But I can see he's sensitive, he doesn't like Miroslav Ilic. Now you're saying I'm making something up again. That's what the man wrote in his interview. The one who interviewed him, so I wouldn't talk about him. So all that's done is wrong, and your evaluations are wrong. I would have to draw your attention to the fact that I am concerned about this real fall, that is, the assessment that the customs revenue will fall realistically on the basis of the application of that agreement, whose amendment was far-reaching, and particularly because Mr Djelic thinks that it is easy to access that agreement, and that is why a large number of goods will, with lower customs rates or completely free to enter our market. What could be the reason? The reason we don't have these goods on the market is because we don't have a manufacturer, and then the question is, where have these producers been lost in the last eight years? How did they disappear from our market? What is the elemental accident that affected our producers that this country is no longer able to produce that optimal amount of goods needed for our market, so we need to import the goods? In order to make it available to our citizens, we, or the government, are giving up customs and we are losing about 250m euros on this basis. Look how that happens with us. It is planned for this year to gather around 850m euros based on customs duties. A little less than 600m euros are planned for 2009, down 30% due to unilateral implementation of the agreement. Then you can see that this agreement doesn't do us any good. Because if we take the dinar as a benchmark of value, then according to the movement of mass -- whether it's higher or lower, it's worth whether it's good or something bad. Here at the beginning we can say that something bad is going on. To make things even weirder, I'm not going to compare it to the agrarian budget, because it's incomparable, but in the agrarian budget we'll have an even worse thing. There we will have a drop of 87m euros, or from 301m to 214m euros. Where are the subsidies for agriculture? Where's the development of that part of our production where we don't really depend on abroad? This is a designed action to further destroy our village, because the whole logic of this government's survival and the policies being conducted, we've learned these few days, such information we've had the opportunity to hear, that simply citizens can't go to sleep unless the budget is passed, as if we haven't had temporary funding in the past years. Now it's the most important budget to bring. Some experts have come out to say that if the budget is not passed, it will be difficult for citizens. It won't be hard for them. What's going to go wrong? Let us cut the costs that exist in the ministries, cut these cost of services under contracts, cut these trips, limit the president of Serbia from travelling anywhere. That's the best measure. If you'd restrict Boris Tadic from traveling anywhere, then you'd probably have seen these tents in the pioneer park. For 20 days, and perhaps more, several tents have been crucified there, the President of the Republic has honored the strikers with the toilet, he has set up that toilet, he enters the side door and he cannot see them, he does not want to see them, and they have only listened to the president, who said in Subotica the most important task, the number one state task is to preserve jobs. You know, one is sent as a message, one is demonstrated as a policy of DS, government, social compromise, and then we get something that we've seen before, and on that basis we can predict how it's going to end. Like a 1,000-euro free share, no one's talking about it now. That's what she was, and the story is we keep jobs, that's task number one, and then Rasim Ljajic signs some collective agreement, so after a month, it's concluded that it doesn't mean anything, that a hot meal is lost, and the regression and everything, the army has already lost it, to inform them, it wasn't Poš who kept them, but is watching him go to Brussels with Svilanovic. You know what's going on. Then the only thing I can recommend to the viewers - save your jobs, if you get fired from the employer, first call Rasim Ljajic and ask that in making a solution to put out the power of these solutions for ending work relations be at least 90% expeditionive, as it has been expedient during the eight years of the delivery of Serbs to The Hague tribunal. To remind you, Rasim Ljajic said in 2001 - I had to accept this function only for a year. Here, she's been there eight years. You are looking for the kind of efficiency that he has shown at the post of president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. You're asking him to come up with solutions, you're asking him on behalf of the workers in front of the state to fight against employers to protect his jobs. If you can't even do that, you have one better option, never vote for DS and the ZES coalition, you have the next variant, somehow organize yourself, people. The president said in Subotic that jobs are being kept. There's no alternative, please. Judges, bars behind the door, keeping jobs, prosecutors too. Workers, wait for these New Year's Eves to pass. It would be good if you came by Belgrade for a little while, because when you're seen in a slightly larger number, they might be able to interpret that someone is rightly injured. As you gather in Nis, Kragujevac, Piroth and other places, you know, it's weak. I can also give you a very useful lesson, when those from the flag rushed Djelic, Vlahovic and Pitic for several years they were funded from the budget. You can see that the pole is appreciated here, so you had opportunity to hear a few months ago that Fiat's contract is a miracle because we saved the budget, as they said, 500m euros spent on buying social peace in Kragujevac for years. Get organized, people, because this country doesn't want to either through customs or otherwise to provide funds. The social part of the budget is almost gone, there is only this part that applies to consumption, and you know it when it comes to spending, there will be again a pleasant, easy life, buying all the media and simply enjoying reading the newspaper how nice it is in Serbia. Of whether the budget is adopted in two days or in a month, nothing good will happen to the citizens of either version, because any victory of the DS is a great defeat and a loss for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11458	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11459	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of my predecessors, Mr. Jovan Palalic, spoke, among other things, about the atmosphere in which this budget came to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the atmosphere in which the budget comes and the amendments to it, it's always time to remind ourselves of the atmosphere and what it does. It is always worth reminding of the deception of the free share of actions, it should be reminded of the pensioner's delusion of the pension height of 70% of the average personal income, of the fact that they have collected all the groceries, that layoffs are daily, that new jobs, such as pompously announced, are not available. That subsidies have been drastically reduced in agriculture, it is well spoken of today, the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the EU is also much spoken about, and it is already unnecessary to talk about EU membership and the white Schengen list. The budget comes in such an atmosphere, and much after the deadline, for a whole 40 days for its adoption, because the government couldn't agree, and we heard these days the representatives of the ruling coalition, how much yesterday's portfolio of DS, which I'm particularly glad, which made remarks to the government that were so late with the budget. The problem with this budget is that it can't be realized. They are also aware of this more and more from the ruling coalition, and we also have the fact that the government has unilaterally, without consulting the unions, made a decision not to implement an extended collective contract. The unions literally knock on our doors every day. To which a representative of the Assembly spoke, but from the republican government itself, there is no vote against union representatives. There are announcements that VAT will be increased, which is certainly a restrictive measure in relation to the economy, not an incentive. When in countries that take this global economic crisis seriously, everything is done to ensure that production is not shut down and so on. dynamic measures for recovery of the economy, we have the noose around our necks with a healthy part of the economy and entrepreneurs, in my opinion, are thus discouraged. The draft budget, I would call it restrictively restrictive, not restrictively stimulating, as we have heard from some representatives of the government, which has indeed been able to make the citizens of Serbia laugh. It was pompously announced when it was far away, when the budget session and today's amendments were far away. The big words have been used and today no one talks about this budget in superlative. When we talk about this atmosphere, we should remind ourselves that one minister claims to be a terrible atmosphere both in life and in society, and that there is no support for partners to solve problems, the other minister has problems with the control of the leading sector, so there is a fight over the defence issue through the press. This serious state must not allow itself to do so, because it does not send a message just to be a factor of stability in the region, but to encourage those unwitting. It is only in Turkey that the military interferes in politics. The third minister, the minister of agriculture, says it is good that citizens do not buy white technology in order to fight the crisis. Mladjan Dinkic tells us these days that there is no authority in the government. Rasim Ljajic tells us that this is an unseriously organized government. Now you expect us to discuss the budget in the most serious way possible. About the United Pensioners' party and their demands and insistence to find mechanisms that will give pensioners a better and more dignified life than they now have, is no longer worth wasting words. Those who are in power to make such statements give each other a fact-finding subjugation. In such an atmosphere, we have a restrictively stimulating budget. I repeat, this budget cannot be realised. That's what the government's representatives say. I have submitted the amendment to the view that the reduction of the budget deficit is one of the most important things regarding this budget. It is technically rejected because it binds to Article 6 and Article 6 cannot be accepted. Let's first talk about reducing the budget deficit, which is why neither the Minister nor the Government has specifically told us why the budget deficit cannot be reduced in this way. All in all, the excise on coffee and beer and things like that, what almost whole Serbia consumes, is unnecessary and speaking. The luxury is not subject to excise duties like those generally accepted things like, I repeat, coffee, cigarettes and beer. We once said -- the government doesn't manage the crisis, the crisis manages the government. It is the biggest problem Serbia faces today. In the hope that this symbolically, not only this but a lot of such amendments, you will accept, to conclude, but the reduction of the budget deficit is something that both the Government and the Ministers have to pay particular attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11460	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Mr. Buha. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled 115 amendments to the 2009 budget bill. All amendments went in the direction of reducing the consumption of budgetary users, direct and indirect, and savings within the state authorities. The 2009 budget weighs around 10 billion euros. The huge funds, the result of work, the pledges, the industrious relationship of the Serbian population, which gave up everything to reconcile state obligations, as we see in the budget that 640 billion, means around 8 billion euros came from tax revenues, and about two billion from non-tax receipts and their own participation, i.e. their own income, organisations and state bodies. Five amendments have been accepted. All two amendments directly related to savings and spending cuts. It is surprising that the government's attitude towards amendments that were targeted, not on the most vital expenditure relating to earnings, we have not touched profits and what is related to earnings, to the correction of those expenditures relating to certain non-essential matters, that is, which will not affect the normal functioning of the state authorities. I said it was contracted services, specialized services, travel costs, supplies of materials and consumables, donations to NGOs, purchase of machinery and equipment. Here I will read you an amendment that the government has not accepted, it has been rejected. It is an amendment that divided Article 5 into 11, the Security and Information Agency, the economic classification of 512 - machine and equipment in column 6, the budget, the amount of 293 million 673 thousand changes, and 193 million 673 thousand, etc. The government's explanation says - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in economic classification 512 - machines and equipment are necessary for normal functioning of the agency and if the specified funds were reduced by the proposed amount, the work of the Authority would be compromised. The proposed reduction of 100 million dinars, according to the Security Information Agency, amounts to 34.05 planned funds intended for machinery and equipment. However, the refusal of amendments does not mean denying the basis for providing additional resources, etc. You see, the government's reasoning clearly shows that there is no good will to meet the opposition's good intentions, the SRS, the DSS, which has come out openly to meet the current crisis. It's not a crisis from today, it's not a two-month crisis, we've been living in crisis conditions for the last 15-20 years. That's what we have to tell the citizens of Serbia. We can't distract them. The crisis has been with us for far longer than the world crisis has been highlighted, which has occurred in the last four to five months. What is important to stress is that the government is distracting the public and citizens of Serbia with a colorful lie about saving and reducing the costs of state authorities. This shows that there is no good will in the government to meet good amendments, well-sighted positions by the opposition and to address the issue of savings. This is the best way. We don't touch workers' profits, we don't touch the other expenditures that are related to the profits, and we save and thus help the government. On the other hand, when we talk about accepting the General collective agreement, we must point out to the citizens of Serbia that negotiating and collective bargaining are obligations under the Labour Act. This country has not shown good faith in collective bargaining in the last three years. No government in the last three years has gone out to meet workers until it has shown it politically, ahead of the 11 May elections this year. The general collective agreement was concluded on 29 April this year before the elections and it is purely a political decision - to accept the General collective agreement, to come out to meet citizens, workers, to meet only on paper of interest and the needs of workers and citizens. On the other hand, in the 11th month, the government again enters into the bargaining of an extended fact of the general collective agreement, accepting conditions that it clearly knew at that time that it would not be able to meet them. In November, Annex of the General collective agreement is signed, the basic elements prescribed by the General collective agreement and this annex are accepted. Certain commitments that had to be entered into the budget and allocated to special classifications that mean huge budget funds, 42 billion dinars. For local administration, it's about nine billion dinars and an organisation of mandatory social insurance of 18 billion dinars. So 69 billion dinars are one, that is, with these two signatures, accepted by the government -- no estimates, no grades, etc. This is a political decision. Because of this political decision, you have social movements these days. The union has risen and rightly requires that you comply with the general collective contract provisions. Here's what the legislator says about the general collective agreement -- that the means to achieve these rights are a major budgetary burden under restrictive economic policy for 2009, it is not foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget. For example, the projected funds to be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget on behalf of a warm meal, a regression and an increase in labour-based fee amounting to 42 billion dinars. It is an extremely irresponsible decision of the Government and the legislator of this law, which must, in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act and the provisions of the General collective agreement and the Annex signed in November, because it is a commitment that must be settled and which must be given to civil servants, local self-government, to the final contract signed, as well as to the organisations of compulsory social security. You see, when a socially irresponsible government entered certain projects, because of the political rating of individual coalitions that entered pre-election activities, we accepted what we didn't see enough, and we knew we couldn't meet. On the other hand, even in November, it means a month ago, aware of the global economic crisis and the problems that we in the country have, we enter into signing, a false promise. January will be, you see, a month in which you will have unions at the door of local self-government, and before the Assembly, both in front of the Presidency and in front of the Government. When you had the courage, you signed the General collective agreement, come out and explain it to the citizens, the civil servants and all the services that fall under the provisions of this contract, come out and say it openly - there is no money. He's got money. You have to find the money. You broke the law. You have not assessed and assessed whether you have or do not have through fiscal and financial policy, you have been irresponsiblely engaged in the projection of the signing of the General collective agreement and therefore you have to answer. Furthermore, the irresponsible government does not want to hear the problems of companies that end the privatisation process as of 31 December this year. It is about 650 companies that will be sold or will not be sold in a tender or auctioned sense. It's about 50,000 workers working in these companies. No one wonders what the fate of these workers is. As chairman of the Committee on Industry and counterpart Nikolic, the president of the Privatisation Committee, we spoke with representatives of the union from the metal complex. They told us openly -- we spoke to the government, we addressed the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, we pointed to the huge difficulties we have in our work, we asked for co-operation -- no one came out to help us. It's a complex that employs 130 thousand people. Because of the economic problems in the world, because of the inability to export, due to the inability to provide adequate credit for the normal production process, we will have huge negative effects and losses in business. The employers will leave this kind of work, fire the workers, and we'll stay on the street. We warn you, be aware, through the Parliament warn the government, warn the Ministry. Here, I'm using this pay phone to warn you, on their behalf. When the government envisioned the 2009 budget, it had to take into account the economic and financial position and those companies that end privatisation, 50,000 people are in suspense, the entire metal complex, 130,000 people hanging in the end. Whether we have a programme of measures to address the negative effects of the financial and economic crisis in the country and the world -- we haven't, you haven't done. You'll have strikes, you'll have huge union problems hanging around your neck, get serious. She tried to correct the SRS by correcting certain economic positions in the draft budget to help you - you did not go out and therefore you will have problems. The SRS can't accept a budget like this, we won't vote for it, and we won't be involved in any of the negative effects that will follow because of this poor 2009 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11462	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, the amendment I have submitted to Article 1 has been linked to the amendment to Article 6 which I asked for item - services under the contract of the Ministry of Trade and Services to be reduced by 15 million dinars, for which the same amount would later be reduced anyway by a large budget deficit. It is true that the budget of the Ministry of Trade and Service is reduced by 4%, from 2.9 billion to 2.8 billion, which would be commendable that we are not in a position to see what these funds are being spent on. In fact, this ministry plans to spend 174 million dinars to regulate the system of trade and services. I do not see the need for the system of trade and services to be arranged in this way, and I do not see in particular the purpose of spending nearly two million euros on this kind of editing. In addition, additional two million dinars would be spent on services under contract for the establishment of a modern regulated market for goods and services. This is probably where the government plans to hire some special experts to build a modern market for goods and services. Also, to make things even weirder, for the same purpose, with a slightly changed name, it is now said - the improvement of the modern-day regulated market of goods, the government plans to spend 21.2 million dinars. To connect service subjects to clusters will be spent via the Ministry of Trade 10 million dinars. It is evident here that if the government had the will and desire, it could save over 200 million dinars. It is also unclear why this last item is doubled, because the government is already funding through the Ministry of Economy to connect companies into clusters, and 40 million dinars are being allocated for it. I think it's extremely irrational to spend money like this and make things even more funny, so not just too much money is allocated for a purpose where entrepreneurs themselves, without the help of the state, need to find an interest in connecting, but that spending through two ministries is being doubled. It was precisely the purpose of submitting this amendment, to reduce this kind of cost to the Ministry of Trade, and that small part, I must say, in the amendment that I asked for, that's only 15 million dinars, and the budget deficit. I will remind you that the projected rate of growth of the social product of 3.5% is now extremely unrealistic and that it is uncertain whether we will be able to reach it. If it is not reached, it is unrealistic to expect that budget inflows will be in that amount as provided for in this draft budget law. It is difficult to predict that there will be an increase in VAT inflows of 18% under such circumstances. Excise inflows may increase, as the government will increase excise duties on goods, whose demand is inflexible against the price itself, but on the other hand, there will be a drastic decline in customs inflow due to the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the EU. All of this raises the question of the declared deficit of 1.5%. The government, at any cost, should have reduced public spending, instead of forecasting a 4.2 billion dinar deficit for this year compared to 2008. So we're going to get into a situation where the budget deficit is not only going to decrease, but we're going to get into a situation where it gets bigger. I think it would be very justified that the government, on its own case, has shown that it is possible for public spending to be reduced and started by the state administration, through the cabinets of vice presidents, whom it is too much anyway, and instead of increasing the costs of these cabinets, I will only specify the example of Vice-President Krkobic, whose funds for the functioning of the cabinets have been increased as much as five times. All of this is in favour of this amendment being very meaningful and that it should be accepted, because its main intention is to reduce the budget deficit anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11464	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Buha, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11465	On behalf of the SRS, I submitted an amendment to Article 1, part of the sub-receivement and expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and suggested that basic financial indicators be changed, and that -- budget receipts should remain at the level of 698,756.200,000 dinars, as proposed, budget expenditure and acquisition of financial assets of 728,752.903.100 dinars and deficits of 29,996,703.100 dinars, which, according to the SRS, is realistic at this time, necessary and necessary in relation to the proposed deficit of nearly 50 billion. I explained that the 2009 proposal for the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget envisions a deficit of nearly 50 billion dinars, representing more than 1.5% of gross social product. The SRS proposes that the 2009 budget deficit be reduced to 29 billion, or nearly 30 billion dinars, representing around 1% of gross social product. In his explanation, the government said: "The amendment is not accepted for reasons that do not comply with Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, which found that the budget consists of a general and specific piece that is compatible with each other according to the types of expenditure. The general part of the budget shows aggregated expenditure by species, while in particular these expenditures are sorted by users. The proposed amendment refers to a reduction in the total expenditure of 20 billion dinars, with no expenditure in the general part of the budget being reduced, and also to a reduction in expenditure, i.e. expenditure in the specific part - by budget users, which is contrary to the said article of the Budgetary System Act. ". The SRS almost every time it went with proposals to cut budgets received such an explanation. The SRS comes out with a view, with economic and financial calculations, that this country cannot bear the deficit proposed here in the 2009 draft budget. Why? Because we spend more every year than we can handle economically and financially. I already said, 91.6% comes from tax revenues. Who pays? Citizens and economy. The burdened economy, the burdened citizens, the many unemployed, the enormously understated social situation of the population, cannot be singled out anymore. So we say, we have to save, we have to reduce consumption and keep the deficit within the frameworks that we can bear. In 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 - A deficit, suddenly in 2005 we have a surplus of 30 billion. It's amazing, but the financial moves and that's what we did, 2006. - deficit, last year's deficit, 2008. - The deficit, right now about 60 billion dinars, correct me if I'm wrong. We planned a 50 billion deficit here. From what means to ensure that what we planned and really put into the budget, and to make peace between direct and indirect users? Article 2 provides for how to settle the deficit in the budget. We say - the funds needed to finance the results, as set out in Article 1 of this Law, include a budget deficit, expenditure on the purchase of financial assets and expenditure on the principal debt payment, amounting to 92 billion 760 etc, will be provided from privatisation income. Privatization incomes in 2009 will be limited. We can only sell the state part or part of those companies that are socially owned, which will be sold in tenders or through auctions in 2009 and part of those public enterprises that we plan to sell, which should be sold and which are in the process of preparing for restructuring for privatisation. Given the economic serious financial crisis in Europe, it would be crazy to sell one of the public enterprises now. That's the part we have to turn off. Of these companies, 650, as many as we currently have in preparation for privatisation, half were already in the process. They're not finished. Companies have not been sold because they have no economic and financial basis. No interested customers. We're not selling them. They're going into liquidation and bankruptcy. We can't count on serious privatisation revenues. Credits. The problem in the world is that I cannot provide adequate credit for my citizens and for my economy. Will our banking system be able to provide adequate resources and invest in the state? Maybe, but very small funds. Our banking system doesn't have enough liquid assets to give to the state to give to public spending. Donations. We're gonna do some donations. I asked one question about donations, so you'll hear and see how many donations we've really received and how many we're showing. We're not expecting donations or it's going to be very small. Financial assets of the budget and through the broadcasting of government securities of value. Through this perhaps, but the question is how many creditors will be able to buy securities of value and under what conditions. If you give and stimulate as you stimulate, then you damage the budget and we get nothing. We're going to get an even bigger deficit. You'll probably do it, like you did in 2005, 2006 and one part in 2007. No funds to cover the deficit. If we add to that the catastrophic situation around the balance of payments, the deficits we have in foreign trade, the huge deficit. The next year will be even bigger, because our exporters will not be able to achieve the revenue they planned for in an adequate performance on the world market. He won't be able to sell his products and return what was invested. We have a deficit at the PIO Fund, the Health Insurance Fund, and all the deficits to the deficits. That's why saving is necessary. When we propose on behalf of the SRS an amendment that is directly directed towards savings, cost reduction, then you reject our amendments. Why doesn't the SRS give up on these amendments? We have to say what we want. We must show our political position. We must say that we are state-of-the-art in terms of achieving the same goals. We want to save. We want to reduce consumption and divide that cake evenly from the budget. You get away from it. A cake that is shared, including this nine.2 billion budget-based cake, with original revenues of over 10 billion euros, its own income from institutions and state-owned organisations, must also be added to the revenues of local self-government, the original revenues of a billion-euro local self-government and about four billion divided by public enterprises. Did we go into savings with these companies and did the government come up with a policy on how to prevent one-off payouts in public enterprises and the gardening of public enterprises, the monopolies? The government and the government have suffered criticism from the SRS and opposition for a year and a half. It pays off enormous profits. We've documented a number of profits here. What's done? Nothing. Today we received information that at the "Nikola Tesla" airport, it is paid just as much as it was paid. Who are we talking to? Is it not a crime against Serbian citizens, who carry the last dinar to the post office, take it to banks, pay, give up their last bite, but settle state obligations? The monopolies that you created for the monopolies, from your political establishment, you chose the chosen people, placed them there, and they disintegrated. Earnings, bonuses, managerial contracts, contracts whereby directors and board presidents are entitled to compensation for the place from which it was removed two to three years ago. Is there a contract like this anywhere in the world? He's with us. The finance ministry, which, following criticism from the SRS and other opposition parties, had to intervene immediately, had to limit profits. If we save, they have to save too. They throw away, the people are starving, the people are in social distress, and you are hiding. The Ministry of Finance is the most responsible here. The regulation had to limit profits in public enterprises. It cannot be allowed for the director and chairman of the board of directors to have three, five, eight, ten times more earnings than the president of the state. He can't. It can't be in normal conditions, not in the situation we're in. Get serious. It's serious time, and the government needs to take this seriously. You didn't go to meet the SRS and other opposition parties who came here in good faith. We didn't limit your budget income. We didn't want to make any adjustments. It's a test for power.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11466	Thank you, Mr. Buha. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11467	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, the essence of this amendment that Mr. Buha has proposed is actually to reduce the budget deficit and to save the state maximum where it can, where there is needs and where, after all, and the sea. I mentioned in my earlier debate that it would be very discussionable and problematic for the budget to be achieved as planned and that the revenues would be, in all estimates of objective and impartial analysts, much less than they were written in the draft budget. What are those estimates based on? Simply because it has been shown in the previous three months that revenue in the budget is significantly less than planned and significantly smaller than otherwise in the previous months, income has been realised. In December, these revenues are slightly higher, but still significantly smaller than planned, because the Ministry of Finance, through its organs, by force method, primarily through the tax administrations and through the financial police, set out to fill Serbia's budget, by sending taxpayers to all firms, with orders to look for hair in the egg, in order not to write penalties that the economy and the small and medium sectors will have to pay, in order to fill the gaps in the budget. The government, among other things, is known for its many irresponsible statements. One of those statements came today on the site B92, given by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, and said Serbia's vault currently has liquidity problems and at this point budget users are waiting for about 25 billion dinars to be paid. Continuing Djelic, it is something the government is currently resolving and will be resolved by the end of the year, the Deputy Prime Minister said. By the end of the year, 25 billion will be settled, today is December 26th, and by the end of the year we have five more days. I really don't know which magician can put into the budget for five days of calendars, i.e. two working days or three working days by the end of the year 25 billion dinars. What methods of force will be able to hit 25 billion dinars in the budget, so that those budget users or those companies and companies that have done certain jobs for the government of the Republic of Serbia are paid. The 25 billion do not go into the famous 33, or with interest rates of 40 billion dinars, owed by the Serbian government to travellers. The travel economy of Serbia employs in the direct sector 17,000 people, in an indirect, with suppliers, with cooperatives, over 30,000 people, that's about 50,000 people. The government owes these people over 33 billion dinars and no more serious indication that these debts will be settled. Some companies spend more than two years on debt. In order for a particular firm to collect a job that it worked for the government of the Republic of Serbia, for certain ministries, it must do the job in a moment, hand over the completed situations, pay VAT for it at the moment and wait for it to receive money from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now you recalculate how much a certain toll company, which did a billion-dollar job, two or five billion dinars, a year and a half or two ago, lost in this year or the second she handed over, waiting for payment, raising loans to pay the VAT to the state, so that it would be paid off by that same state. So the state consciously forces those who work for her to fail. Just because this debt is not resolved, the government of the Republic of Serbia will be responsible that employees in the travel economy will, by force, have to lose their jobs. Because those companies that took credits to finish the job, so they took credits to pay taxes to the state, they also took credits to pay these workers for this year since they paid that job they did, now they have to fire those people, because they have nothing to pay them from. Those obligations the state has to make to the sector must be carried out. First and foremost, it has to solve the debt problem towards the real sector. The real sector is the only sector that fills the Republic of Serbia's budget. If this sector kills itself, if people in the economy are not paid off by the state for those jobs they've been doing, they'll have to fail. If the economy fails, people lose their jobs, they will have no one to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the whole story, we've been trying to point out to you here all the time, because that way very consciously and very dangerously gets into the next financial year with big debts to budget users, to those who've been doing certain jobs for the state, and that way they're going to be in a big problem and the real sector, and especially the revenue side of the budget next year. If we enter the next year with 25 billion debts, which Mr Djelic says are real and will be resolved by the end of the year, which I doubt, plus 33 billion dinars according to the travel economy, Serbia's budget next year, without credit and without all the benefits it has to pay, will be minus almost 55 billion dinars, plus the budget deficit envisioned. I'm afraid that in this way the government had to show all its members, first of all the finance minister is responsible for it, although I understand the woman, she has no mechanism to oppose certain ministers for their needs. So the budget deficit had to be much smaller, it had to be spared on all things that were not necessary, and it must not be spared on economic subsidies, on subsidies to agriculture, on loans, on grants to the real sector and on debts to the real sector. That's what the budget comes from. If what is only healthy in this country is not supported by the government and by the budget, we have no chance of meeting even 70% of the planned budget next year, let alone more. Accordingly, if there is no budget charge, and expenditures will be very problematic, so we will come into a dangerous position to then start retirement with delays, although, of course, there is no way they will be increased. Donations to health care, according to education, police, the military and all other budget users will be questionable. Think carefully, when the country is in crisis, it must save, first of all, on itself and on its expenditures which are not necessary, and to support the real sector, to support consumption, so that the population can fill the budget with its own consumption and thus create a momentum for the revenue side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11468	Thank you, Mr. Lapchevich. Mr. Shami wants a word. Your task force has seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11469	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry the Minister isn't here. We have here since the beginning of the debate on amendments a whole series of amendments and DSS MPs and MPs from other opposition parliamentary groups aimed at reducing, to be precise, cost-effective foreign budgets. Everyone here points out the need for a deficit reduction. I'd be happy if our deficit at the end of the year was 50 billion or something less, how much is it supposed to be? For me, the biggest problem of this budget is the revenue side of the budget. No matter what I belong to the opposition party, of course, we're all sharing fate and we're worried about the country's fate, and I'm afraid the revenue side of the budget at the end of the year will be much, much lower than the estimated 700 billion. First, I haven't seen it before, and there's no indication of any active government moves that would increase production. In order to increase production, consumption must also be increased. Some serious EU countries are reducing VAT, because they have the following logic, the reduction in VAT raises purchasing power, it further has consequences, on the one hand, increased production, and will increase the mass of funds that will be taxed by some other taxes, while reducing something that is above our heads and which is very dangerous, which is social tensions. When I spoke, the example is, about the education budget, I was saying that an increase in salary of 1% is projected. Actually, it's a pay cut, because there's no doubt that inflation is following us. We're trying to transfer the burden of the financial crisis, which is worse, to the poorest citizens. The increase in excise duties on fuel affects the poorest citizens. I don't mean us driving cars. When you increase the price of fuel, you increase the price of bread, milk, potatoes, onions, meat and so on. So, some of the most lenient foods, which everyone, if they don't want to die of hunger, must buy. Unfortunately, I'd like to be denied next year, but I'm afraid the state won't make much more than 500 billion in next year. On a budget like this, at expenditures like this, it's, like, 200 billion dinars of loss. We can't take it unless we want to print the money. We've already seen that movie in the past not so long ago. So I think there's room for the government, on the one hand, to really start pulling, if it can, some moves in economic policy, but serious moves, not only in financial policy, but in economic policy, to think very seriously about how it spends money. I have already made it clear, and I will repeat that in the budget, 70 billion dinars, the government itself distributes its own internal decisions. That's when I brought out the information that it's 800m euros, that it's 30m euros per head of the government minister. It is, however, unfair to say so, because it is that in our government ministers are equal, but there are even and more equal. Well, some ministers have the right to spend huge amounts of money, some others don't have that right. I wish there was no one else's right, because otherwise we enter into one complete senselessness that the congregation's majority adopts the budget, and on the other hand, practically a large amount of money is divided beyond the budget. I even checked and said -- we could, in the end, get only the first pages of the budget, the income is so big, the cost is so much, the difference is so much, and everything else solves the government. Finally, about the budget, I have to admit, even before he confessed to the Assembly, and after that, many half-truths were heard by members of the government. He's trying to get some distractions to skip the most elementary bill or not to say math. The ministers threw him here the other day that it's not true that wages only increase 1% in education. After that, Mrs Mojovic, who took the pen and confirmed it was 1%. The latest pearl was said by Mr Djelic, who said one thing correctly, but forgot to say another thing. He said the science budget has increased four times compared to 2001. That is true, but the Serbian state budget, meanwhile, has increased 5.5 times. Bring it to the correlation, and you'll see how science, for example, and I'm afraid a lot of other things, went into this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11470	Thank you, Mr. Shami. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11471	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected members of the Government, the budget should be a realistic vision of society, i.e. an expression that the Government sends a political message to see the development of the state, to preserve its stability and to meet the social needs of its citizens, etc. The budget must be a fruit of good judgment, it must be a fruit of quality consultation. For example, in the EU the draft budget is negotiated in the so-called the European Commission, the Council and the European Parliament agreement. The very beginning raises the question of what it is possible to think positively about such a draft budget when it is 45 days late in parliament at the beginning, when the deadline for its adoption has long passed, because I am a proposing, or the government was unable to agree on this proposal sooner. What do you think, of course, when government members say the delay in the budget proposal is good, because the estimates that were in force a month ago are no longer valid, so now the budget will be more realistic. Will monthly estimates be different again and might the adoption of the budget in a month also be based on more realistic parameters? So is it possible to answer which, by that logic, is an adequate moment for its adoption. Perhaps this draft budget is best spoken of by Governor Jelasic, who said - everything and to be adopted, will have to be rebalanced in the first quarter of 2009. The question can be asked whether the government is socially responsible, which in the beginning with the trade unions, agreed that at the end of this year, it will decide whether an extended General collective agreement will apply, and then unilaterally, without any consultation with trade unions, to decide whether to freeze it. At the same time, it suggests that privates apply the extended General collective agreement in their sector, which the government itself does not do in the state sector. Where's the social responsibility? Where is the ability of the government to manage economic flows, to stimulate the economy by dynamic developmental measures? Thus, there is no stabilisation of social, political and economic opportunities in the country. As a result, the DSS, as an opposition party, has already proposed a comprehensive development programme under crisis conditions. When only the authority is analysed for how the ministries are recognised today in public, it is clear why the budget proposal is so well-conceived. The absence of basic consent and coordination on capital issues and projects of importance for the country's development is evident. One minister argues that "a terrible atmosphere in political life and society" and that he does not have the support of partners to solve problems. It is important to say that the government right now must play a leading role and responsibility in solving problems and stabilising opportunities in the country. The second minister said yesterday that the government is inefficient because it is too bulky and too expensive. The DSS warned and pointed out this during the debate on the government and during the discussion of the Ministry Law, but it was lightly rejected. If time would allow me, this way I would continue to list the ministries for a very long time. The finance minister can be acknowledged that the draft budget itself is very well-prepared and clearly presented, with a lack of synthetic and exact indicator of how much the state administration itself draws funds to birealise this budget. The other thing is that the question of the plan itself is how it will be adequately filled and what dynamics it will be done with. It's been embossed with an earlier assessment of gross social product growth, down from 7% to 3.5%, and the question is, what's going to happen next. As regards the amendment that I have submitted to Article 1, it concerns the transfer of funds from expenditure for the purchase of goods and services for the purpose of child protection, for the purpose of the Youth Fund and for the purpose of sport scholarships. The amendment to the part of childcare predicts that in practice there is a declared concern for this very sensitive part of the population. Children's protection, on the one hand, should take care to build a healthy population, and on the other hand, those who are thinking about having children, because they are being sent a message that society is taking care of and seriously thinks that it supports them by protecting the youngest. It's an essential prerequisite for fighting the white plague. This is what the second part of the story, or all those protests that have recently been sent to the government, is about, like, the one from the parent portal "babybac.com", where people feel that there is not enough money provided for maternity benefits. Demographic indicators indicate we're a nation in the process of disappearing, so the state has to stand in the way of that. What happened to the promise that pregnancy will also be paid in full, or 100% profit, as is maternity, and not just 65%, what is it now? Was that one of the pre-election promises? Also, the amendment is to increase funds for young talents. We heard the other day from the Deputy Prime Minister, who boasted that our young talented people are achieving impressive results in international competitions and that the state is investing in them far less than other better-developed countries do. How about we try to provide them with adequate resources, so that at an equal start-up stage they can go into this fight for prestige and for strengthening our country's reputation, because definitely every success in the international science plan or any other field strengthens our country's reputation in the world. Also, young talented people are the future elite who will lead this society. It is the healthiest part of our population and the fundamental national interest is to invest in them to be even more educated, to feel supported by this country and to be even more successful. Investment in education is strategically important in order to be competitive with others. I will just point out, for example, that the objective of the Lisbon EU strategy is to "the Union becomes the most competitive and dynamic economic space in the world that rests on knowledge". The best ones can contribute the most, but in order for education to be a factor in economic and any other success, the state must also do its part of the job. Long-term and economy must be more actively involved in this process. Of course, the process itself of granting assistance from the Fund must be open, clean, clearly defined. Finally, sports scholarships should not be spent specifically because encouraging young people to engage in sports provides proper development, in addition to removing them from the street, affirming solidarity and team spirit. Especially those who succeed in promoting our country, which they did at a time when no other area of our country could hear a positive word in the world. I therefore urge the Government to accept this amendment, because the general interest must be above the party's particular interests. I urge the government's representatives to take the words of the opposition's representative as a well-intentioned act, so that comprehensive and urgent measures are taken to stabilise the overall opportunities. So far, unfortunately, we have only heard announcements about the necessity of agreement between the authorities and the opposition, citizens, trade unions, businessmen, etc. It seems to me that everything remains at the level of an empty story, because neither the government in parliament wanted to agree on priority moves, nor did it accept any constructive measure of the opposition. We'll see if there's any will to accept constructive amendments to the budget. However, of course, the DSS will take care of the interests of citizens and, in this respect, it will also take responsibility when it comes to this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11472	Thank you, Mr. Lazic. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11473	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Hope Kolundji is not in the hall, I expected her to be present here and demonstrate the readiness of the ZES to prove on one occasion social solidarity. So a few months ago said the ideologist DS called Dragoljub Micunovic, that it needed social solidarity during the great global financial crisis, for which we have not yet received an answer, but we heard from Mladjan Dinkic, a few days ago he had a monologue in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, where he explained that the global economic or global financial crisis is a crisis of demand, and since the crisis is demand, we will import goods, and ours will hardly come out of this territory. But to return to this amendment, so if you see Hope, tell her it would be good if we of the SRS were ready to accept this disgusting DSS amendment, so since we're not so disgusted, neither should you be disgusted, but accept this amendment. Dear citizens, to understand what this is all about. Nikola explained it nicely. I'm just going to sort it out a little bit. He suggests that on the expenditure side, within Article 1, for two billion dinars, it no longer be 46.4 billion on behalf of expenditure on buying goods and services, but that those two billion be distributed, so that one billion go for childcare, that 500 million go for the Fund for young talents of the Republic of Serbia, is not the Zoran Djindjic Fund, but the Youth Fund, and that another 500 million are planned for expenditures, which is -- sports scholarships. Since we are obviously a treasure of very successful talented athletes who, as parents and clubs finance it, achieve top-notch results, and when we need to skip that stairs, make it even better, then there is some intervention, some small material help, and since we have sports talents, that the state may contribute a little to their development, because in all the competitions they go with the flag of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we're looking forward to it some time, sometimes we're sad, but this 500 million needs to help us be as happy as possible, because we're a small country, a small nation, and when we win some sport, huge America, we're all warm around our hearts, and even you, Minister, I'm sure you're warm around your heart, because our beautiful anthem is playing out. You see, Cavic represented it a few days ago, he also suffered punishment for "Kosovo is Serbia", but he pushes further, even though they promised him an apartment, so they wouldn't give it to him. He pushes, loves Serbia, loves that sport, etc. So, ZES, DOS, dosmania, Boris Tadic doesn't want to cut costs where they launder money on behalf of services and materials, just the state administration. Every division has that item. So he doesn't want to cut the paper, to cut the toners, to reduce, say, something by contract, take some of the brightest examples of it, and that's this Mile jerk, Zoran Cvianovic, Mile in transition. He was in the past government's adviser to Deputy Prime Minister Djelic for recycling, so I guess something, he understands the garbage. He was a garbage counselor because they didn't know how to pay him off, because he gave big credit for winning DS. Who knows what kind of characters there are who, because of those merits, and for a long time, not a single congregation was on fire, I have to notice, because of those merits, you just have to pay for it. They can't pay any more from abroad, they said, we helped you get to power, now you're in power, pull what you can. Why go to the embassies and a memo there to pay you some money? Last time, I showed these memorandums of resistance that they were paying them some money to get Serbia in a better and more thorough manner. So, two billion dinars, the state administration doesn't want to give up. However, they are really funny explanations when some amendment is not accepted. I would ask you not to laugh, this is written by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the government that has coalition capacity. It's not what the battery capacity is, it's the coalition capacity, it's the possibility of a deal. That looks more like the Blue Bridge. You don't get to choose there either, whoever comes can. So anyone can. It says this, in order to rationalise expenditure, a further reduction in expenditure on goods and services is needed, however, the draft budget has already made a significant reduction in expenditure, i.e. expenditure on goods and services. This was reduced to the nominal level of 2008, and we criticised it as being excessive, so further reduction would affect the performance of budget users. You see, these contracts and these services have to be preserved because of the functions of state users, the users of the funds. However, that would not be quite appropriate, when someone is corrupt, he must also manifest in a reasonable way. Don't be surprised. However, "the refusal of amendments does not mean denying the basis for providing additional resources for those purposes in the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy (for childcare, so the Ministry of Youth and Sports for Youth and Sports Scholarships), but rather the need to ensure, in the narrowed balance of the 2009 budget, the financing of competences according to these opportunities". You see, primate has a computer, toner, primate has toilet paper, plier, flash, DVD, cell phone, all of this has primate versus childcare, young athletes, talent fund. See what kind of thinking that is. It's given priority to material values, which is goods, and something that's human is denied, a child. A child's talent. The fact that there is a child, child's protection, a child's talent in science, art, a child's talent as a athlete. There's no way to do that. There isn't. Boris Tadic clearly told us not to let the state administration give up the new Pi-sy, not to give up toilet paper, not to give up pencils, not to have a mobile phone. The study written by Drago Hiber or Gašo Knezevic must not be denied or I do not know who. It's a priority. Of course, by nature, such a corrupt man, I have given one amendment after the deadlines have expired, so I have listed all EU directives, there are no ministers or assistants. They were scared because of what it says - the EU directive. That's where they shake. This is where their pants shake, when you write to them in the amendment the EU Directive, here is the Council Directive 2003/20s in the stretching of biofuels and others for transport purposes, and another 96. There, I gave them something and I called for something that is a European standard. They caught them working right away, and it's good if they do this, because this is for biofuels. Their material value has primate. What's human, human, is gone. You can't see it. If by any chance the Zoran Djindjic Fund were within the state budget, it would not blink, both hands and feet would vote. They don't say, with these means, you can provide a legally prescribed level of childcare. No, they say, an interesting proposal to think about. When? The child is five years old in 2009, and is already six in 2010. Someone's talented now that he needs help, next year he's too old, no one's gonna help him. These young talents that were on TV the other day, he says, don't meet the criteria of this ballerina, because, he says, it's too young. Too young. If he was too old, they'd probably see right through his fingers, but he's too young. The problem is he's very young, matured and made a good result. Then, of course, good Mama Telekom had to intervene, etc. I also remember the anonymous donations to Math High. No one knows who these people are, and they helped, and they did it during the sanctions. They don't want to talk about it. They don't even want to brag. Anonymous, how many, 16 years ago, no one knows who donated several computers to our children, who somehow went through that blockade to some math contest and won all the first places. This is not an amendment that would refer to the boulevard Zoran Djindjic, or the Zoran Djindjic Fund, this is not an amendment relating to the children's protection boulevard. I don't know, how long do you think you're doing direct damage to Serbia and to the people who live here, and that you're being extremely arrogant at this point by demonstrating at first sight a limitless force that you can do anything and anything. To use these two more minutes just to remind the citizens of Serbia, Tadic said in Subotica that you are guarding jobs. So, prepare the tributaries, put it behind the door, save the jobs, write to Rasim Ljajic, as he is at the head of the Labour Inspectorate, if your rights are violated. Write to him even if you don't get a warm meal from January 1st, because not only did he sign the agreement on behalf of the government, but he is also the minister at the head of the ministry who is obliged to comply with the regulations, even if he signed some regulation. Take care of the children, take care, because this violence conducted by Boris Tadic is no longer hidden. Enough to say that something that's materially good has value over something that's a child. I'd be ashamed if I hadn't come out to support this amendment, and as far as you're concerned, there's nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11474	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11475	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to add only to correct Mr. Krasic, who was usually well informed, but Mr. Cvianovic was a consultant for sustainable development and was really involved in promoting recycling, his problem was that he was in conflict of interest because he was co-owner of an electronic waste recycling company. I am sorry that I do not have an adequate interviewer to explain this amendment, because I would not discuss the site for which the Ministry of Culture is in charge, represented here today by Mr. Minister Bradic, but rather specifically about the amendment I have submitted. Start from the end of the fall, from when all Serbian citizens live in fear of the inability of the Serbian government, which has led them to a very difficult period in their lives by having a constant drop in the value of the dinars, to withdrawing foreign investment, and new investments are out of sight, though promised, to the crisis in the banking system, and I must say that almost every citizen of Serbia is in charge of banking, if not private, and what is a co-owner or owner of a company, then to a huge decline in the index on the stock market and to the growth of inflation and the wave of collection. Let me remind you, gas is up to 60%, energy-accumulated, communal services are expensive, expensive food and drink, expensive clothes and shoes, expensive transportation services. So we do have an extremely high degree of inflation. By the way, I should add that statistics say that each Serbian citizen Boris Tadic and this Serbian government are costing 50 euros so far, which is only the difference in the personal income of the personal income generated by the drop in the value of the dinar, i.e. by increasing the price of the euro. On the other hand, I have to say that price baskets have grown by 6,200 dinars since this government began to rule Serbia. I must also say that the purchasing power of Serbian citizens fell by 5%, unlike other countries where it remained at the same level or grew. Serbia, unfortunately, is 33 out of 41 countries ranked on this list. In addition to all this, Serbia is faced with the destruction of its territory, on the one hand a great diplomatic success has been declared that EULEX is enthroned in Serbia's territory, on the other hand we are being announced the secession of Vojvodina. With all this, we are faced with a wave of the coming global economic crisis, to which the Serbian government does not have any of this problem, so it is quite possible to say one of the answers that the Serbian government is offering to all of this as an EPP message from its ministers, and I have to say these EPP messages because they are amazing. For example, Minister Djelic told us, that is, the Deputy Prime Minister told us that the crisis is our development chance. Dinkic said it would be an opportunity to attract investors to Serbia. The Prime Minister told us we wouldn't be hungry. The store secretary told us we wouldn't be naked and barefoot. In addition, 900 million valuable foreign reserves have been scrapped so far. When I said that the Serbian government is reacting slowly and inadequately, and to remind you, DSS MPs have been saying so since September, and today we are being joined by Minister Dinkic, who says the government's decisions are about three months late. So when I talk about the reactions being slow and inadequate, I have a lot of examples in mind, but let's say the one I'm talking about today is the budget. The budget was to be in front of lawmakers on November 1st. We were told, when asked here daily, the DSS MPs, what about the budget, Governor Jelasic explained to us that it is very good to wait, because it is better for the citizens of Serbia to have the budget brought in and be good than to arrive on time. When we asked here about the pay phone daily what about the budget, the DS MPs and the ruling majority in general smiled and told us – it tickled. I understood that at the time as a joke, but it turns out that it was really a tickling process, which shows that something was done first of all in a room called the kitchen, which uses a long-term cooking process, and it turns out that when the budget came before the MPs, it was that long-term tickling and that political kitchen made a draft budget that was ahead of us, but it's not good, as Governor Jelasic announced to us. Why isn't he good? Because in that kitchen, each of the ministers, or every political party, received something, and the citizens remained unaccounted for, those promises that the ministers made in one period before the elections themselves, which said they were putting those promises off, some by 2010, and some did not give time to delay them, and the reason was cited by the global economic crisis. I have to remind them what they promised us, just to remind them that they're taking care of it. We had a story that was current these days -- an extended General collective contract, then pensions, then Fiat, then 200,000 new jobs, then European integration and candidate status, then a white Schengen visa, then free shares, so many foreign investments. It's not gonna happen. The only thing they promised, and immediately began to apply to the damage of Serbian citizens, is a transitional trade agreement that will cost about 300m euros from the Serbian citizens' empty budget, only 21 billion dinars will be lost in customs. I have to tell you, in 2008, customs revenues were 70.4 billion. Those 300m euros and those 21 billion dinars will all be given by Serbian citizens to please Tadic and Dinkic, who similar to the victim and I must say similar nonsense, have not asked any other country that has set out on the road to EU accession. The government boasts of its co-operation with the IMF and says they together with the IMF have made the draft budget. This should be an alibi to the government for unfulfilled promises that the PUPS has made to citizens that pensions will be 70% of the average personal income. As things stand now, we have a problem with the IMF. It seems to me that up to this problem, and obviously we have it because the IMF cancelled its meeting on December 19th, that we have this problem for several reasons. Is it true that our deficit is 1.5% of the budget, how much the IMF tolerates or has Minister Dragutinovic overestimated revenues, and has talked about revenues coming from October to December and underestimated the expenditures imposed by various ministers and various political parties? That's what the IMF is silent about, Governor Jelasic, who appears on several occasions here as a spokeswoman, some transmission between the government and the IMF, he's telling us about budget rebalances and VAT increases, although so far the most income has come from collecting VAT, to remind us, it's 338.8 billion dinars. Here, Prime Minister Cvetkovic told us that the budget is restrictive and is restrictive in many areas. Let's say, let's talk about agriculture, where subsidies are reduced by 15%, while at this transitional trade agreement opening up borders for EU agricultural products. Of course, we won't know the quality of these agricultural products because, let me remind you, we also had Kinder eggs for the East and Western markets. At the same time, these products will be very cheap on our market, but it is their safety issue, not to mention how devastating this decision will be for Serbian farmers and for Serbian agriculture. Let me tell you the next thing you know, the next thing you know, the next thing I know is Monday, I see that in a letter sent to us by the Veterinary Chamber of Serbia, the representatives of the Serbian Veterinary Chamber, or Serbian veterinarians, will come to the Assembly to ask for help. So the 2009 draft budget envisions 50% less funds compared to last 2008 totalling 816 million. Due to the 2008 debt payment, which amounts to more than 700 million from July to December, the Ministry of Agriculture will not have any means to implement legal obligations, which will result in: the unprotected stock, the emergence of explosive, dangerous, infectious diseases, such as classical swine fever, Newcastle plague of livestock, bird flu, which we have talked about here many times, then the presence of zoonoses in humans, the destruction of cattle stock and the destruction of farms, the slaughter of underage, the destruction of quality breeding material, the cost of exporting animals and products of animal origin, that is milk, eggs, meat, imports of cheap non-quality genetic material, imports of meat, milk of suspicious origin and quality, the flowering of animal trafficking, meat, and others, thus endangering the health of Serbia's citizens and stopping the process of Serbia's inclusion in the EU. I want to tell you that veterinarians, or the veterinary chamber, asked the Serbian government to pay them back their debts for the work they had already done, and that job was practically the protection of the entire Serbian stock fund. All of this was done to protect the stock fund from infectious animal diseases, but also in a portable sense, Serbian citizens. Today, the Serbian government owes 700m to veterinary stations throughout Serbia for 2008. By the way, it's reducing their perks. Next, what else is restrictive? Social security from the budget. That's what my colleague from the DSS spoke about, Mr. Nikola Lazic. Also, my amendment was based on these social security services from the budget. What are these services, and why is it important that they are actually covered? It's a transition fund, then childcare. We are one of the oldest people in Europe, our average age is 42 years. We don't deal with our children at all. We have a problem paying child's supplements. The value of these supplements is 1,770 dinars, and 387,000 families receive the supplement. The parental supplement receives 5.136 families. Let me not tell you about the supplement that the state gives for the first, second, third and fourth children to stimulate birth. Unfortunately, we don't think that way. We don't think about the social protection of disabled children. We have a problem for citizens to turn to us and ask for help for the municipality to pay the way for a child with a problem of that kind to come into an extended stay. Then, the student standard, the Fund for young talent, sports scholarships, refugees and displaced persons, which other colleagues of mine will talk about. On the other hand, we have total waste. We have, for example, a trip of 5,640,000,000, for the travels of Deputy Prime Minister Dacic 11 million, Djelic nine million, Krkobic 5.5 million, and let's say for the Prime Minister's trip we have about 900,000. Either our prime minister is inactive and lazy, or our vice presidents are very active. Another example of wastefulness. Minister Dragin, when he travels to Montreal for an international conference, and of course whoever makes the conference, offers him to travel to the economic class, refuses that type of service, and then the Serbian government pays a full service to Mr. Minister travels by business class. On the other hand, an example of one savings -- in 2006, the Ministry of Faith had 180,000 for the journey, today the same ministry has two million. Or this minister is so active in selecting the patriarch, he has been increased the need to travel. Instead of taking the biggest blow of this economic crisis to the government and trying to save the citizens with adequate measures, she tells us that citizens will take the major blow, and that explains by introducing excises, then announcing an increase in VAT, the collection of mandatory insurance vehicles 10%, announces three times the accumulation of vehicle registration, which will naturally create a whole wave of purchases due to transport services. What does this show? The government is completely incapable of leading Serbia. It cannot bring Serbia anywhere further than in the 1990s. That's what Minister Dacic says very openly - tell the truth to the people. Guys, we're facing bankruptcy. Tell us that what we're doing here today is a very complicated situation for the citizens. They'll be back, not in the '90s, and we're all past the '90s, and we all know what it was like for us, this government is leading Serbia straight to the bottom.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11476	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11477	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here by budget and its structure, it can be concluded that there is no problem and that nothing bad will happen next year, so the plan is made as if the economy will have a boom and not a disaster. In particular, a dilettant approach has been coerced into a piece, without enough analysis, at worst for Serbia's time, the introduction of a trade agreement with the European Union that imposes a reduction in customs duties, which will cause invaluable damage to Serbia, primarily its economy, and in particular agriculture. By allowing imports of everything and everything, we will become a waste country for many products from Europe, losing large amounts of customs-based revenue. A co-worker recently presented information that would result in Serbia losing 21 billion dinars on this basis. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zoran Krasic sent a detailed message and warned of numerous illogicalities and anomalies in the state of Serbia, especially when talking about talents. One of these talents and students is the one the state ignores, and it's about the student of the Mathematical High School and the mathematical genius. It's about student Theodore von Burg. Despite the bronze medal at the International Mathematical Olympics he won for Serbia, Theodor von Burg did not win the Fund for young talent. He participated in the Olympic competition last year and won first place. This year he also participated in the Olympics and also won first place. Then recently, he had another Olympic medal, a silver medal at the Junior Scientific Olympics in South Korea, which included 522 participants from 93 countries. The question arises whether the Ministry of Sports and Youth and the Ministry of Education know about this genius student who is 16 years old, but attends a special mathematical high school. So, respected citizens, you see, for a team of individual ministers and resistors, funds can be allocated from the budget, i.e. of taxpayers to hundreds of millions of dinars, but there is no government of understanding, nor wants to pay attention to young talents, to those representing the Republic of Serbia, who bring medals on the international agenda, at the Olympics and at world competitions. So it's the government that absolutely doesn't pay attention to our science, our talents, and they deserve it because they bring medals to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a photo published by Politics. It's about a genius. This is not a hollow story, this is proof that Serbia has talents and that someone in Serbia has to help represent Serbia's talents and that Serbia is one of the leading countries, especially when it comes to mathematics. Not only is this mathematician and genius concerned, many of our mathematicians young are also neglected and many scientists have been neglected, especially when it comes to talents. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the budget, I must point out that this is not a restrictive budget. First of all, what Mr. Krasic says, when you look at math, everything will be clear to you. From these mathematical figures, you'll see that the government is a mini government -- it's a little covered, and it doesn't reveal anything. He doesn't reveal what's important to the citizens. In the context of its environment, the government has mostly fenced and completed jobs - what is in the interest of individuals and how individuals believe that taxes should be charged in this country. However, as is known, the finance ministry and the minister are the biggest enemies of the budget, with an extended arm of tax enforcement. In fact, the finance ministry can short-live the entire economy in one year. It does not refer to Mrs Dragutinovic, that she will do it, that she has intention or imagination. I don't think so, but I'm afraid someone can encourage her, so we can get into a crisis and be in one part a co-executor. I hope that this will not happen, if this is the government that has now offered this budget, however -- this budget is a wasteful budget. Especially when it comes to imports of foreign goods, I must again draw attention to the fact that companies from Croatia and Slovenia have decided to stifle the economy, especially agriculture in the Republic of Serbia. We had the largest animal meat producer, Agroziv, who remained as well as broken legs, thanks to the import lobby. What did the import lobby do? He managed to arrest 15 directors from the management through the competent state authorities. According to my knowledge, these directors are now released, and I'm going to check that out, they were released from custody. Martha was arrested, but in the meantime there was bankruptcy, and the result of that bankruptcy is that about two thousand workers were out of work. I don't defend their directors, nor do I intend to defend those who break the law. If their management has committed certain excesses of authority or abuse, or violated the law, let it answer, but why sanctions should now be imposed by workers. According to me, about two thousand workers are out of work. Many plants have been closed -- in Kovin, where there were 150 workers, in Vladimirovac, in Žitište, in Plandište and in other places. So, we had the best animal meat producer, but as far as we're concerned, it's that someone likes commission, someone likes to be imported foreign goods, and even from Brazil, which has been pulled out of the freezer for about 10 years, even in decomposition, and offered on the Serbian market. We had a recent opportunity to see that the former Minister of Agriculture, now Minister of Trade, opened the largest chain in Belgrade, "Pevec", with 44 thousand square meters, and that goods are imported from Slovenia and Croatia and sold in Serbia through their companies, and that money is drawn, converted into foreign exchanges and amounts to Croatia and Slovenia. Slovenia needed Perutnin from Ptuj to take over Agroziv and to be the one in Serbia to deal with the production and import of animal meat. So, I don't respond to parliamentary questions when I asked a question, and it was about the buyers of agricultural state land in Vojvodina, or Serbia. Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of hectares of Agrokor, Todorovic and other companies from Croatia are buying agricultural land under the most unfavourable conditions. The agricultural land to be redeemed could have been parcelled. If it is a single agricultural land that has a thousand or two thousand hectares - that agricultural land should have been reparated and offered to individual farmers who can buy 50 or 100 hectares, not to allow a profiteers and tycoon from abroad to come and occupy this country and to buy everything that is, I say, the most qualitative. There's no answer to those questions. No one's giving any answers. However, it is obvious that the state authorities are involved, i.e. the Ministry of Trade and the former Ministry of Agriculture. When it comes to agriculture, I must draw attention to the fact that in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, there have been pastures since Maria Teresa. Hundreds of thousands of hectares of inhabited places possess pastures and mornings. Guys, this is a very important thing, except some colleagues don't have accurate information. It is hundreds of thousands of acres of pasture and morning, and do you know that the Law on the return of mornings and pastures was passed to citizens, or villages in 1992. Can the Ministry of Agriculture provide information about this - status on this day of these pastures and mornings, because it was meant to return to inhabited areas, villages, and pastures as well as mornings, that they used them? What's going on? In one village, where they have agricultural goods, a tycoon comes, there comes that powerful man who has the support of the Ministry of Agriculture, buys agricultural land, and then enters the pasture of peasants, as was the case in Omolica, in a populated place near Pancheva. An unknown face came in with five tractors and tractors, about 150 acres of land under the grassland, and hundreds of years of peasants, citizens of individual farmers used the area and that pasture for their cattle. So is it possible that no one in the country today knows who is rich at the expense of these pastures, and it is hundreds of thousands of hectares, i.e. I will ask a question and pray if the President of the National Assembly allows, to forward to the Ministry of Agriculture - in which populated towns in Vojvodina, according to the municipalities and names of settlements, have pastures, which they received in 1992 when the Law on the return of pastures and urinals was passed, what is their current status according to the state of land books, and land books under Roman law should represent the fiction of absolute accuracy? Now let's see who uses these pastures - whether these bastards and thieves and profiteers or whether they should use peasants to shepherd cattle, to raise cattle, to produce both milk and meat, for citizens and for export, not to be rich thieves and robbers. So I'm looking for an answer to the question -- who uses pastures, according to land and cadastrian books on today, and to see what is the material damage? Because money used by tycoons and profiteers is not brought into the budget, and citizens are not. The peasants, whose pastures meant a great deal to them, the state has to pay them back, because the state has passed that law - and thieves and profiteers are driven out of the pastures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11478	Is there another word for this amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. He has the word Mr. Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11479	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, today we are discussing the most important law for the citizens of Serbia, which largely determines the life of all Serbian citizens in 2009, a budget that is normally mostly filled with just the citizens of Serbia through the obligations they face towards the state. We do not understand why and what preceded this delay in delivering the budget to the National Assembly, while not respecting the law, that the draft budget must come into the assembly procedure on 1 November, that the Assembly declares it by 15 December. We received the draft budget here on December 7th, the assembly session started on December 20th, today is December 26th, and we are still discussing the budget, and Serbian citizens with extreme anxiety and impatience expect the outcome of these talks and the outcome of what the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget will look like in general. In doing so, we make a budget in an extremely tense situation, when we have a large number of unsatisfactory government policies in front of the Assembly or Government every day. It is precisely this delay in the majority of MPs and citizens that raises doubts that the government is not ready to bring in the 2009 budget, but rather to enter into temporary financing. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 relating to expenditure on budgets, total expenditure, item 2 expenditure on buying goods and services, amounting to 46,365.991.300 dinars is changed by 45,900,255.977 dinars. It also changes with the receipt and expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget position 2 - expenditure of the budget and the acquisition of financial assets, with the amount of 748,752.903.100 dinars being changed by 748,287,167,777 dinars, with the amount of the budget deficit 49,996,703.100 dinars being changed by 49,530,967,777 dinars in heading 3. The purpose of this amendment is, above all, the reduction of the deficit by 465,735,323 dinars and on expenditures for the purchase of goods and services, and I believe that this amendment is entirely complete, because the budget proposal has been given in relation to the budget rebalancing of only 33 days of difference and I am of the opinion that there is no justification for increasing these costs. The budget, in the opinion of economic experts, is difficult to achieve, as shown by the developments in the last quarter, as well as the statement by the governor of NBS Mr Jelasic that we have already had a budget audit and a statement by the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, as of today, to be threatened by mass layoffs and hyperinflation. In order to explain to the citizens what the essence of this amendment is, I need to explain to them what the structure of these expenditures is, and above all, the constant costs, the costs of telecommunications, payment services, leases, energy services, municipal services, travel costs, which include official travel in the country and abroad, living rooms, transport, accommodation, food, ongoing repairs and maintenance, where the maintenance and repair of buildings and rolling stock, material, office materials, protective and working clothing, biodecoration, materials for training and education, transport, household, catering, etc. In the end, we have specialized services. Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Minister Dragutinovic said in their statement that the 2009 budget would be restrictively encouraged. A restrictive implies that there is no increase, but a reduction in costs. Only 33 days after the adoption of the budget rebalances we get a budget where this item of expenditure is 465,735,323 dinars larger. This shows that the government continues to behave wastefully, which I will illustrate by the following example. Only for the cabinet of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Vice-President, the Secretary-General and the respective offices, expenditures under these paragraphs are estimated at 784,392,000 dinars. By the way, the total funds for the above are numbered in the amount of 3,932,406.000 dinars. So much for saving. Minister Cvetkovic presented in his exposé three principles on which the budget is based. The first principle is the principle of community in the government. When he said - the union in the government - meant the unity and homogeneity of all parties of the ruling coalition. However, it is obvious that there are other interests, and I am afraid that it is also about money, that there is no common partnership in the government, because the first PUPS comes out with a request to increase pensions, comes out with its amendment, G17 and Minister Dinkic disputed an oil-gas arrangement, Minister Dinkic said today that the government is late with the adoption of adequate and appropriate measures, Minister Rasim Ljajic said that the ruling parties do not have a common position on the extended action of the General collective contract concerning the largest number of citizens. The second principle is the principle of solidarity. The government is not solidarity, not reducing its costs, but increasing them at the expense of citizens, taxpayers, a bulky apparatus, a large number of employees, both in the government itself and in state institutions. The third principle is the principle of continuity. Prime Minister Cvetkovic said yesterday that unemployment is increasing. We are threatened by high unemployment, hyperinflation and the risk of job layoffs. Otherwise, until the other day, it was declared that we were going to increase the social product for the next four years to 7%, and then we went to 6.4%, and the budget proposed a GDP increase of 3.5%, which in these conditions already seems invaluable. Inflation of 8% is the same, in my opinion, only imagined projections and in all these economic movements is completely invaluable. The course of the dinar varies depending on the need for an import lobby. It goes from 75 to 85 dinars and even 90 dinars, and we don't know what the situation will be in next year. Export decline is 4.8%. The drop in imports is 5.4%. Minister Dragutinovic said in her exposé here that the government's budget is a mechanism that responds to challenges and risks to protect citizens' living standards and social security to the greatest extent. As a result of the insolvency of business entities, increased credit prices, a reference interest of 17.75%, which is nevertheless the biggest reference interest, loans from 25 to 30% to business operators are essentially a major threat that leads to the liquidity of the full economy and more or less among the economic operators there is one debt relationship, in the sense that economic operators cannot settle their obligations, since, above all, state institutions, state-owned enterprises, local self-government are unable to meet obligations towards business entities. The prognosis of experts is that next year we're going to have 40,000 companies that are going to go bankrupt and we're going to have over 120,000 workers out of work. Selective lending, which was discussed by financial experts, means giving credit only to solid and solvable ones, which means at the same time the risk of large numbers of economic operators being left out of work and that they will have to lay off workers. Unreal budget projection. The government had to reduce the expenditure side, and hence the budget deficit, which should be covered by privatisation funds, which will not be from ino-credits, which can hardly be obtained from international entities under the conditions of the crisis. The budget deficit of 49,996,703,000 dinars can only be higher. This also points to pessimism that incomes cannot be realised in those amounts that the Government has drawn up. I'll say more about that. I fear that the government's entire policy has no agreement, that there is antagonism in the government itself between those who participate in the government and parties of the ruling coalition and that all of this can in the worst way affect the citizens of Serbia. It means worse life, worse conditions of self-inflictedness, more poverty. I fear what one minister said, the minister of trade, that citizens will not be barefoot and naked, and the prime minister said they will not be hungry, that citizens with such a non-serious budget policy are at great risk and that is why we expect with full right to respect the DSS amendments, which are primarily aimed at improving this budget and making life easier for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11480	Thank you, Mr. Radulovich. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11481	This amendment and the Government's position not to accept this amendment is a clear message of something that has been going on here long ago, that there is simply no room for sound reasoning when it comes to this government, because they have reached an agreement, party, coalition and capacity, and anything that does not fit what they have agreed simply has to be rejected, cannot be accepted. The purpose of this amendment, Mr Radulovic, is to reduce the costs of 465 million dinars for the purchase of goods and services, and we talked about this earlier, means to reduce the cost of paper, to reduce the costs of computers and something that serves the state administration, as expenditure, consumer material, and to reduce the budget deficit for that amount, so that it is no longer 49, almost 50 billion, but 49.5 billion. It would be said at first sight that this is really symbolic of this system of large numbers, and it is good that perhaps these small examples show what the government of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget is like. They just want to have such a budget deficit. I have to correct one thing, the real budget deficit is somewhere around 28.5 billion, the cost of obtaining financial assets is 21.5 billion, and the payment of the principal is another 42, almost 43 billion, so the financing of the budget will be almost 93 billion. That's the amount over that of 698 billion. Why doesn't this government want to cut the uncovered budget? Because it wants to be active in the financial market, to issue short-term securities of value to bridge, reportedly, some problems in budget financing, a non-harmonised inflow of funds into the budget, and always making a pretty large reserve due to the uncertainty the revenue side of the budget brings. There's no uncertainty when it comes to spending. That's where it's all familiar. For the past few years, we have had a situation that, a little bit or three months, especially while the finance minister was Mladjan Dinkic, is being broadcast securities of value, that they are being bought by banks, which are very favourable securities of value, because it is guaranteed to make much more money on these securities than on some other securities of value, and then, behold, in order to replace 28.5 billion, we must as a cost of providing these funds that we have 21 billion. They don't want to change that. You don't want a clean bill here. I will remind you, in 2001, when the Bill on the Budgetary System was passed or the first attempt to pass a basic rule on the budgetary system, that at that time, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic said that every dinar must be known, how it goes, how it goes, that everything will be transparent, that it will simply force the state to behave rationally and there is no unnecessary cost. Of course, the situation is the same as with other areas where Djelic promised something, however, he achieved something he did not promise. Everything he has promised has not been achieved, what he has not promised has ended, 11.5m euros are in the actions of a bank. But here now, since we can't influence the government because they have 126 plus some kind of voice, in all variations, whether or not with the cast cards to vote, whether or not with the absence from the O.R., it doesn't matter, in the end it comes down to the same thing. Here is now the second question that I have answered, and that is the question, if it has to go through this kind of budget and there is this kind of parliamentary violence that simply reason has no place in this discussion, but a force of 126-127 votes, then I call on citizens -- you are the best dam of the state. Here's how you're going to defend the state from this and this government. In this country, there are dozens of banks with foreign names, perhaps foreigners, perhaps some of our owners, and banks have spread to us, for the first six months of this year they have drawn 300m euros as a profit, a successful result of operations in 2008, in the conditions and the crisis that governments and in the banking sector in Europe, they extract these funds, return them to their founders, and we can rightly expect their weaker activity in our area, but much more activity in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, because there is no control of this banking system and money laundering and all that is happening. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia must know that there are also special money laundering companies, where financial and tax inspections cannot come, one of them is in New Belgrade here. To whom they run business books, it is not the subject of the interest of the tax police and anyone else. How can we defend our vital interests? We can defend vital interests by transferring all citizens of our savings roles, their cards to those banks where the state of Serbia is the founder. We know in full confidence that it is the Commercial Bank, but I think there are several more banks where the Republic of Serbia has its own roles, several more, these stakes are 25%, it's different. I think the citizens could withdraw their funds and move into these banks, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if it is already in debt, should give priority to the purchase of charters of value to these banks and that we should close that circle here. This does not work from the point of view of respect for the principles of market business as affirmative as I speak, but it will be very useful. A lot of things aren't affirmative, but they're useful. It's not affirmative to even talk about the state having to intervene, to save private banks. You see, America did it, contrary to what Mladjan Dinkic taught us. Let's take a look at how we protect our national and economic interests, so you're in charge of those eight or nine banks. I am absolutely certain that there will be no conditions of duty and there will be no need for such benefits to be given as in some of the banks that participated and so far have helped you overcome the problems of paying, the problems of providing funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, all the citizens in these eight banks of ours withdraw their funds, these foreigners spread out nicely, they laundered money, they open branches, they have ATMs, they have a lot of crying cars that no longer people can pay off. They took that risk, they went into the citizen business, they sucked out of our economy a considerable amount of money, they turned it into foreign exchanges, they took it abroad, so it's time for us to protect ours. Everyone protects their own. Why don't we protect our own? If you already have to pay the cost of 29 billion-dollar debt, so let them at least stay with our banks, and not with these foreigners whose founding capital we can doubt, whose good business you can never convince me is good business, you can't convince me for a simple reason because it's a bewitched duo, Mladja and Radovan Jelasic. Let's change the governor of the National Bank of Serbia if you can. You can't. You can't even get Junior out of the government because he doesn't have a 500m-euro loan from the IMF. Besides, you don't have a big finance expert like that, you had that Cory Widowski, and then some other business guys call you. So if we can't protect this already, then the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can take fate into their own hands. If you have savings, send in these eight banks with our capital, government capital. After all, there is a much stronger guarantee of the state, as the state also participates in the management of these banks, it participates. You, Madam Minister, seem to me, through an agency where a member is also obliged to govern those laws that we adopted here last week. I guess it's a double, triple guarantee of those funds, so something bad doesn't happen. What really worries is that you registered an absolute absence of desire to reduce the deficit. Even when a solution is offered to save to reduce the deficit, you do not accept it, where it is offered to save to give for social issues, you are not interested in it either. It's simply blocked because of the coalition capacity. As you can see, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this has nothing to do with economy or finance, this has nothing to do with politics, coalition agreements on how to kidnap power, how to protect that power, how to preserve that power. To change that power, it takes sound reasoning, it is necessary to listen to the President of the Republic, to take all the tributaries and to guard their jobs, to guard their apartments, to safeguard their acquired rights, to safeguard their dignity, because this government does not protect those categories, neither dignity nor property nor jobs. It's all there. You know, today in someone else's apartment, tomorrow at your apartment, Boris Tadic's wedding. I wondered if I should propose an amendment where I would abolish all expenses of official travel to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Vice-Presidents and ministers. That would be a terrible savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget. But I think it would be even more beneficial. They would be disabled, in the mess they make when they come out of the country, for us much greater damage than that material is that political mess, which they make wherever they appear. Wherever they appeared, they did some damage. Then they come with the press here, it's an epochal success, people look forward to 15 minutes, there's some unpleasant news coming right away. That's bullshit. This has happened since the Democratic Party took the reins into its own hands, but the awareness of the citizens must wake up, solidarity among the citizens must be launched, today is the neighbor, tomorrow is you, the day after tomorrow your child. It's better to stop it in time than to treat it afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11482	I'd like to ask the heads of Parliament at 8.10 p.m. to come to a consulting agreement. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Đuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11483	Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11484	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the DSS Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Draft budget law for 2009, and section 1 - Budget expenditure, point 1.2. - Costs for the purchase of goods and services, amounting to 46,365,991,300 is changed by 44,365,991,300. This means that this amendment envisions a reduction in the budget deficit compared to the budget proposal for two billion dinars. In the time of the major economic crisis, which has hit Serbia, I believe it is necessary to make more restrictive of the budget when it comes to the state administration. I think that we are all in agreement on the need and necessity to reduce public spending and, in that sense, this amendment has been submitted, i.e. it has been proposed to reduce expenditure on the purchase of goods and services of two billion dinars. It is true that the planned budget deficit of around 50 billion dinars fits 1.5% of gross social product, which was one of the IMF's conditions. However, according to our findings, and according to data that can be found on the finance ministry's website, planned revenues are made somewhat weaker than planned for the 2008 budget rebalance. I expect that this trend and the tendency to continue in 2009, so I believe that the 2009 budget revenues are fully unreally planned and will not be realised in that amount, so I expect that the budget deficit will be significantly higher than that presented and proposed by this draft budget. What's weirdest is planning to increase corporate tax revenues by 25%. So, at a time when we have a stagnation or a decline in production in almost all businesses, and the negative consequences of the economic crisis will only be felt in early 2009, planing to grow the profits of businesses, thus also increasing the income from the company's profits, least of all, is unreal and completely unrealistic. Also, I believe that the increase in VAT from imports of 15%, or around 30 billion, is also unrealistic and I fear that these revenues will not be realised in that amount. I think the unreal planned and non-tax revenues, i.e. that their increase from this year is also unrealistic. I don't think it's going to be achieved to fill the budget planned under the bill. Also, what will negatively affect budget filling is an unreasonable and completely wrong decision by the government to initiate a unilateral application of the trade agreement. Thus, the decision will cut the budget of the Republic of Serbia for revenues of about 300m euros. The government planned to replace the lack of customs revenue by increasing excise duties on gasoline, diesel fuel, coffee, beer, and a complete paradox. So, we're reducing customs or we're removing all customs on some luxury goods, luxury cars, and we're increasing excise duties on gasoline and on coffee. Gas and coffee are goods of broad consumption, do not represent luxury and by increasing excise duties on these products, there will be an increase in the prices of these products, and this will affect a large number of residents, especially the poorest. In addition to lack of revenue in the 300m-euro budget due to the unilateral application of the trade agreement, the application will also have very negative consequences for the overall Serbian economy. It is true that the opening of the market and the free flow of capital is good if it is equal to or approximately equal to economies. However, when we open the door to economically incomparably stronger economies than the Serbian economy, it is not difficult to conclude that the Serbian economy will very hard to withstand this competition and competition with the economies of developed European countries. The agreement will particularly affect agriculture, as the best export branch of the Serbian economy. In fact, we and without applying the agreement since 2000 use the privileges of asymmetric trade measures and have free exports for more than 95% of Serbia's agricultural products, so that we have more exports than agricultural imports compared to the EU. By unilaterally applying this agreement, about 40% of agricultural products will be abolished or reduced by customs duties, so that our market will be flooded with agricultural products from EU countries, and I fear that at this moment Serbian agriculture is not ready, not competitive and cannot withstand the match, as subsidies and the level of agriculture in EU countries are significantly higher. The subsidies in EU Member States for agriculture ranged from 300 to 400 euros per hectare, while we had about 120 euros this year, and the planned 2009 budget would likely be reduced, i.e. credit support for agricultural producers, as the entire agricultural budget is lower than the 2008 budget. For this reason, the DSS parliamentary group has tabled a number of amendments proposing an increase in funding for subsidies and lending in agriculture, as well as amendments proposing an increase in funding for the Development Fund, both for start-up loans and for the acceleration of entrepreneurship and for aid, credit support for companies that already operate. Because we are all aware that at a time of this economic crisis, commercial banks under extremely unfavourable conditions can place funds and money towards the economy, so I think that the state has to intervene by increasing funds in the development fund and there through favourable loans to try to mitigate the consequences of this crisis. I'll talk about those amendments later when they get their turn. There are many amendments accepted by the minister and the government, submitted by DSS deputies. I sincerely hope that some more amendments will be accepted by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11485	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11486	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, most importantly as a problem is that there has been no final accounts since 2001 in Parliament, so it is not possible to determine whether and to what extent budget procedures are good, especially without the revision of the final budget account and the revision of budget procedures, whether these measures have been taken so far taken to ensure that the budgetary system reform is quite good, whether they produce results and are already proposed new final amendments to the law when it comes to the budgetary system. The way in which the final result of the budget is determined is not in the role of citizens or taxpayers. Why? Because we don't have organised and consistent budgetary control, especially given that a state institute has been established for many years. a state auditory house and an institution to control and monitor the spending and use of budget funds by budgetary users. I ask the Minister of Finance, who is present here, Mrs Dragutinovic, to tell us whether a budget control has been carried out from 2001 to today and whether one final account has been submitted. If so, here are some MPs to inform that MPs could reach that final account, from which we should see first and foremost incomes and expenditures, and in particular to see whether appropriate discipline has been established in the use of budget funds. That's a serious problem. Please problem, but the Serbian government doesn't see it, and it deliberately hides it. He's deliberately running away like a "cat around hot porridge" so that an auditor doesn't accidentally come into a certain house and into a certain institution. Yes, it is. And here's the evidence. Why not provide business space for state auditors, but only use one office in the former Federal Assembly? In accordance with their Rules of Procedure and the Systematisation Regulation, 99 auditors are provided. However, this budget shows 88. Who uses this sizeable business space where they've been staying and working for the federal institutions of the former SFRY? Please, how much business space is only in the palace of the former Federation and who's sitting there? Last year, I went into that building and went to my former cabinet and found a clerk, and it was a cabinet that used to be used by former SFRJ and SRJ justice ministers. There's 80 squares here. I found a clerk. I thought there would be someone there, or that it was organized, that this office was divided so that officials, or civil servants, could work. There's so much room in that building, but what can you do? The Department of Defense has the privilege of taking as much as he wants. The state auditor must finally have a business space. He can't ask the state auditor to rent a business room, and the state has as many. So many buildings, so many buildings, and so many military facilities that sound empty, which I'm going to say a few words about now, and I want those yesterday's and today's events to be removed when it comes to the Serbian Army and the defence of the Serbian state. Here, I'm asking you a question, if you'll allow me, Mr. Vice President, and I'm asking the Department of Defense to answer me -- how many jobs were employed at the Military Technical Institute in 2000? How many employees were in this institute on the day that Mr. Dragan Sutanovac, the defence minister, took over this ministry? Third -- how many now per day, so 26, there are employees at this institute? Fourth -- what was it like and what is their qualification structure now? How many defence departments had employees the day Mr. Dragan Sutanovac took over? The sixth -- how many colonels and General Sutanovac practically took off from the Department of Defense? Seven - what was their qualification structure when they were hired practically from the Army, some and retired, and they were younger and had far more professional qualifications and school equipment far greater than those brought in? How many Colonels did Minister Sutanovac place in general? What similarity criteria, according to party membership, did Mr. Sutanovac use to place and produce the general's act? Where is it? How many employees of the Department of Defense in the municipalities? What's been said about the number these days, how much does the Department of Defense have? There's more to it than there is an operational army. It's showing up, and General Ponach said he's got 10,000. But, please, in 160 municipalities in Serbia there are departments and there are still so many employees at the Ministry of Defence. So, the defence ministry has more employees than the operational army of the Republic of Serbia, commanded by the General Staff. How many abandoned barracks and military facilities in Serbia, which ring empty, are preparing to be sold? But the Serbian Army will not benefit from that sale. None of that sale goes to the military, goes to the government's budget. The Ministry of Finance. Since exporting the military industry, why is nothing given to the military, and this is about exports, as has been said these days in public information, between 300m and 400m euros? No money from these funds, according to my knowledge, is received by the Serbian Army. During the term of office of Dragan Sutanovac, how many military facilities were sold, and where was the money spent from the sale of these facilities? Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, respected subordinates, respected officers, respected generals, therefore, the Serbian Army is under two orders today: under one command is commanded by the defence minister, under the second command by the Chief of Staff. How is that prescribed in the Armed Forces Act? As things stand, a simple sergeant today, or soldier, officer, officer and senior officer and general at this point does not know whose order he is to follow. There was a differentiation in Serbia's military, as the Chief of Staff says -- there was a conflict between him and the defence minister. Whenever there's a collision, he says, until the crash of two concepts. Simply put, whenever a crash occurs, even in car accidents, damage is always done. With these two concepts, that's exactly what the damage is. That damage will be irreparable. Now we'll see who wins. So, that's the way it is. In Serbia's military, as I said, there was division and differentiation. Our army was thrown into the political arena. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well-known, especially to military faces, i.e. to officials, officers and generals, as well as to the MPs, that no security strategy has been adopted, that no State defence strategy has been adopted, i.e. about the armed defense and the use of the armed forces. From that strategy, ladies and gentlemen, all the laws and regulations relating to Serbia's Army and to the defence of Serbia's state against possible enemies. If we get, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, answer these questions I asked today, then we will see what concepts are and what clashes in the defence process of the Republic of Serbia. Then we'll see who brought how many of his fellow officers, officers and generals to the Department of Defense, and we'll see how many of them the Secretary of Defense has appointed the colonel as the general, to appoint them by his choice and by his likeness. There's a lot of dissatisfaction in the army. A lot of people turn their heads. Many are wrong that everything is fine there and this is a little bit of a killing between Lieutenant General Zdravko Ponoš and Mr Sutanovac, Minister of Defence. No, this is a very serious question. I can tell you, I have experience in defending the country, when it comes to intelligence and counterintelligence, when it comes to the preparation and defense of our country and our country. I know that once an army was organized, which formations were ready to defend our country, that our army was traditionally, the Serb army and the Serb soldier was respected on every battlefield and in every country. The Serbian army was never an aggressor army. The Serb soldier has only always defended himself from a far stronger enemy. The Serbian army threw three empires on its knees. What do we have today? An army on a beggar stick. The army was torn apart, destroyed, divided, divided. What do we have now? Who are you gentlemen going to the bunker with tomorrow? Who to the bunker tomorrow if you need a defense of the country? With those who say they have different concepts. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not easy to dare go to the bunker. When it's said we don't have the money to buy an artillery missile, it's a dangerous thing. It's letting our enemies know that we don't have an organized and powerful army, that we don't have a weapon. Where's our weapon? Where's our ammo? Where are our battle kits that big? Destroyed years ago. That's why our army was brought into this position as it is. That's why our country is under security issues. Who's in charge of the army now? If you consider this Mr. Zdravko Ponoš, he's been walking at a light speed from a simple captain to a Lieutenant General for the last six years. You know how long it's been waiting for someone to become a general. You know that he had to be, first of all, a footman, so he had to be a corporal, so the water commander, the company commander, so he had to be battalion commander, so he had to be a commander of the Corps, so the brigade, eventually to get experience, to go through all the services, to go through command responsibility, and to gain command experience. You have a man who, according to some knowledge, came to that function of a man on a recommendation. (President: Time.) I'll finish. I'm sorry. Whose recommendation it is, which it is to the Serbian army, is being hit on the head today, which Serbia cannot have the army that it had. You got it. That's why the SRS has such solutions. We know that in our army there are officers, officers and generals so many capable, so many skilled, so many educated, who have two academys, which in any case can take the post of commander, i.e. Chief of Staff, and become generals, even though it was a pleasure to be denied by those who sought only political similarities and obedience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11487	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, please. And then by amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11488	Dear Vice President Obradovic, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, on behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and that section - budget expenditures. The point is - expenditure on buying goods and services and economic classification 42, where the draft budget provides for the item of about 46 billion dinars. Many MPs, at least from the DSS, noticed that this is an extremely large figure and that this refers to expenditure on buying goods and services. So we all kind of feel that maybe there's some kind of savings that can be saved to be transferred to another e.k. I propose by amendment that two billion dinars be transferred to the point -- social security from the budget, and that is e.k. 47 - evasive and displaced faces. Since the end of armed conflicts at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, many years have passed, and the process of finding permanent solutions for many refugees and displaced persons has not yet been completed. According to the latest data from July 2007, about 98,000 refugees from the former Yugoslav republics live in Serbia, mainly from Croatia and BiH. Moved faces from KIM, we all know, there's about 200 grand. So today Serbia is the only country in Europe that has such a large number of refugees and displaced persons. In fact, it comes first when it comes to Europe, and in world terms Serbia is the sixth country in the number of refugees and displaced persons. Data from the last registration of refugees indicate certain changes in the structure of refugees by country of origin. The participation of refugees from BiH decreased, say, in 96, there were about 50% of refugees from BiH, and today with that status is about 25%. The number of refugees from Croatia remains very high, and that population accounts for about 75% of people registered as refugees. The above-mentioned data testify, above all, that the return of refugees from Serbia to BiH took place more successfully and without major problems. However, the problem of refugees from Croatia has been very difficult, as well as today. The point of the refugee story was to be put in 2005 and 2006, when so-called The Sarajevo Declaration. It is an agreement signed by representatives of BiH, Serbia, Croatia and Montenegro, as well as representatives of the international community. At that time, signatories of the declaration pledged to address the remaining problems of the displaced population in the region by the end of 2006. The countries have pledged to facilitate voluntary return or local integration of refugees, respecting their right to choose a permanent solution. By signing the declaration, each government has practically taken the obligation to make up its own map of the road, namely its programme and the list of remaining commitments in this process of solving refugee problems. However, the agreement is also a dead letter on paper day and day, especially a major problem with the return of refugees from Croatia, because they are the most difficult or in no way able to achieve their basic human rights. Since the Croatian state obviously does not want to enable and ensure the rights of refugees currently living in Serbia, Serbia must also ask, among other things, international organisations, to arbitration in solving these problems. An international conference on refugee in Europe and the world has recently been held in Geneva. At that time, a representative of the Croatian state said in a speech to representatives of 40 countries in the world that Croatia realised the Sarajevo Declaration and that the problem of refugees in their country was resolved, and that only some individual cases exist. Croatia's representative also said it does not need any international assistance from Serbia and Croatia to solve this problem. So this conference in Geneva is also an example of Croatia cheating both on its own and on the European public, and it is false because more than 70,000 people live in Serbia and wants to return home in Croatia. So 70,000 people are waiting for a sustainable return. There is a problem of 42,000 seized tenant rights, 40,000 Serbs whom Croatia does not want to pay for pensions, so we have an army of people currently living in Serbia and cannot resolve their basic human rights receiving a earned pension. Believe it or not, when it comes to internships or severances, as it is said, internships, so to speak, only 35 cases have been solved so far. The Croatian state does not want to solve these problems, and on the other hand it says there are no unresolved problems. When we talk about Croatia and their desire to become an EU member as soon as possible, then we know exactly what the obligations of the countries in the European integration process are. One of the basic obligations is good co-operation with neighbors. Therefore, Croatia does not meet that requirement either. Another burning problem in our country is the problem of displaced people from Kosovo and Metohija. In the last nine months or this year there is not even a symbolic return of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, and not only there are no words of return, but we can read in the press, and we also know from people living in KIM, that entire families are moving to Scandinavian countries. This easily and quickly provides them with visas, you have young families with small children who leave KIM without a problem. Obviously, the state of Serbia does not provide guarantees and does not provide the conditions for life they should have. Why did I say all this and why I think there should be a lot more money and financial resources for this item. From all I've said, it is quite clear that Serbia must work more actively and seriously to solve all these problems that refugees and displaced persons face today in Serbia. While I am already talking about the endangered population or some endangered groups living in Serbia, where refugees and displaced persons are unequivocally involved, then I simply have to mention a group of people who can also be considered endangered, which is a group of pensioners. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, told or promised Serbian citizens the other day that in 2009, no one in Serbia will live worse than he did in 2008. It would be really good for all of us, and also for the citizens of Serbia, to be able to keep that promise. However, it is now clear that somewhere around a million and 700,000 pensioners in the coming year will still live worse, and that the promises of the PUPS from the pre-election campaign were nevertheless unrealistic and apparently focused exclusively on providing votes for the elections. Why will pensioners live worse, and why will the standard be worse? Because there will be no regular law on the projected increases in April 2009 and October 2009. You know, we have a law that predicts that every year, pensions are coordinated twice. However, we also have on the agenda a draft law on pension and disability insurance supplements and in these additions as the only supplement or change is that pensions will not change in 2009 or will not be harmonised. So this bill practically freezes pensions next year. When a PUPS representative spoke here the other day in principle about the draft budget, I was under the impression that the two of us read different bill proposals, because he spoke affirmably about this draft budget and talked about how PUPS would advocate improving pensioner standards and how pensions would be coordinated. Later, we also learned that they had untimely submitted an amendment to this draft budget, and the question arises whether they escaped in one elegant way from being denied by the government of the Republic of Serbia an amendment that would provide for certain increases in 2009. Mrs. Dragutinovic, finance minister, a while ago, I don't know exactly when, perhaps a few months ago, she suggested that pensions not increase linearly but simply make a certain analysis, so that the lowest pensions increase more, and that those pensions that, say, are about 70 or 80,000 do not increase. However, it was rejected by the government of the Republic of Serbia, and DSS MPs believe it was an excellent proposal and that Mr. Jovan Krkobabic should have accepted it. So, I am afraid that our oldest citizens will live worse next year and that Mr. Jovan Krkobbiæ did not keep that promise, not only did he not keep it, but pensions will freeze next year, and four MPs from the PUPS will obviously vote for this budget proposal, regardless of what it is contrary to the interests of pensioners in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11489	Thank you, Mrs. Banovic. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11490	This series of amendments to Article 1 is a good method for everyone to simply notice and conclude how bad this government is, Boris Tadic. Mrs Donka Banovic's amendment practically applied the same method as her colleagues because she suggested that in Article 1, point 1.2, expenditure on buying goods and services, economic classification 42, amounting to 46 billion and 300 and some million substitutes of 44 billion 365 million, i.e. two billion for social protection, and for classification 47, refugees and displaced persons, i.e. to increase the proposed amount to two billion and 950 million. The government didn't accept the amendment with that purely stereotype explanation, but it tried to show the other side, the other side is used to cheat. It says that the refusal of amendments does not also mean denying the basis for providing additional resources for social protection from the 2009 budget for refugees and displaced persons, but rather the need to ensure that the 2009 budget is financed in accordance with these options. That in translation means - we will not touch those expenditures that are called services per contract. It is an economic classification of 423 in all parts of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and there are 60 of them, I think. So this economic classification appears in 60 places. They don't give up that classification, and they don't want it to go down by one pair. So, no money. What no one can practically have in their pocket or in their hand, no pair wants to reduce, or point it to the other side, and as we have seen in the previous amendments, they want to reduce the deficit by no single pair. Now let's see what they're actually defending in this way under economic classification 423? Of course, since I've been an MP for a long time, I wouldn't be able to make a mistake without taking an example that will spell out, an example that will be recognizable to the citizens. I took, for example, a division of 11, a security-intelligence agency. In 2009, it is this Vukadinovic that still shakes at Krusevec from him, otherwise Miki Rakic's errand boy, in that service 1953 qualified secret agents we have working agents. So, a little less than 2,000. The correspondent's, the cooperative's and the other network's far bigger. Namely, these 423 classifications will spend around 47 million dinars in 2009. That's what you see. What you can't see, I can't talk about. And if there were such means, there must be. Why does he have to have them? Anyone who left the service opened up in some way, whether through memoirs, whether through a private bia-mia agency, so he talks about what they were doing, how they were doing while they were in the service, how they were laundering money out of this, from those jobs, how they financed the Resistance, how they brought money to Micunovic in December 1996 to preserve the unrest against Slobodan Milosevic's regime. It was published by Cane Saturday in a book. What are you doing? I'm not saying anything in my head. Read the books a little bit, educate yourself a little. I can't convince you of the basics. Read it. If you enjoy your ignorance, please don't make me suffer for it. Now if I have to go back to that elemental stuff. The lesson in overcoming democracy has long been over. Cane Subotic boasted - I have the legitimate right to participate in a tender for the construction of a tobacco factory in Kragujevac, which is the same for "Fijat", because, under the order of Jovica Stanisic in December 1996, from Montenegro, with the knowledge of Milo Djukanovic, I brought 500 thousand marks to Micunovic to help the protests be preserved. After a few months, Gonzales came. You're the second group, you're not the revolutionaries of the DS. I'm sorry, Boban. I forgot. The Zoran Djindjic fans are in the LDP, these are the Boriss. I'm sorry. I'm not surprised you don't know. In 2009, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who is famous for stealing mandates, which contributes to everything and everything, do not laugh, these are serious things. So, with 47 million, you'll be funding them next year. They're tasked with preventing every strike, every demonstration, from causing incidents during public gatherings. A public gathering of citizens is allowed, subject only to the legal obligation to report the meeting. But if the unrest arises, know, in the 1950s, led by Vukadinovic, Miki Rakic, Tadic will send again to Romania, perhaps another country, if there is an opportunity. Don't be surprised if you see those group of fans with a walkie-talkie, cell phones co-ordinate actions to cause a mess to come up with, embarrass and humiliate the justified protest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who only have one problem -- they want to live. They want to live. Maybe someone's been listening to this for eight years, but if he hasn't learned, he has to listen. You know, someone's having a hard time getting into their head. What am I supposed to do? I don't have any better means to get into my head than this pay phone. If you're appealing to other means, say, the tributaries exist, the crowbars exist. I know that people share on those where the word means something and there are those where only the beating means something. As a rule, those who only listen to the word beatings end up in prison. Those where the word opens the door, makes them reason soundly, there's no problem with them, people run away. This Security Information Agency will use funds for services under contract. So he says -- administrative services, on behalf of the settlement of costs incurred in translation services, stenographic and other general services. As far as I know, our BIA has no jurisdiction beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I deliberately said the word "border" because there was one question whether they could warn us about challenges, security risks and something that was happening, and they answered -- we don't even know anything, we don't even know in Kosovo and Metohija what's going on. Then what would they translate here? They probably get orders in English, but they already know English. What kind of spy doesn't speak English? Let's move on. It says -- computer services, software development services necessary for the Agency's work, as well as computer maintenance. Probably, among other things, for listening in. You didn't remember? And listening. If you haven't remembered, no problem, I don't mind telling you again. And listening. When I say listening, I'm not just talking about Tadic the maniac.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11491	Mr. Krasic, please take care of the dignity of the President of the Republic. Indeed, it is unacceptable for you to speak in this way when you speak of the President of the Republic. I'm warning you, I don't want to make a point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11492	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as soon as you listen to the DS, then you make a mistake. There's a man named Ranko Tadic, his nickname is a maniac. I don't have that opinion about Boris Tadic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11493	Keep an eye on your own interpretations. If you continue to lead the dialogue with me, I'll give you a measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11494	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11495	Because you can't act like one and say it, it's rude and ruin the reputation and dignity of the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11496	Excuse me, ma'am, if someone's nickname is a cricket, shouldn't I say his nickname?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11497	I don't think it's right for you to act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11498	I was talking about the completely wrong person, not the one they're thinking about. I didn't mention Boris Tadic at all. I don't know where you got that idea. Ask anyone who has to listen or defend themselves from listening, everyone will tell you that it's the nickname of that man who pretends to work in that service and scares people. You don't know, people. If you don't know, get some education.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11499	Don't insult people, don't underestimate us here either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11500	I don't insult people, I just said the nickname of this man named Ranko.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11501	Continue, and if possible with a vocabulary that is in line with the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11502	What's the matter with dignity? You see their ignorance is the cause of your intervention. Don't call me responsible for someone's ignorance. I don't know, this is incomprehensible. I suffer the consequences of other people's ignorance. Scandal, amazing. Let's move on. So we have these computer services, so we have professional services, costs based on work contracts and copyright contracts. What could it be, the creative contracts with the BIA -- ordered texts, they're the salivating texts about people. They don't want to give it up either. Do you see what the problem is, citizens of the Republic of Serbia? So, the economic classification of 423 to 60 places in the budget must not be touched either by iota, not even when it comes to evading faces, displaced faces, but it is no problem for city authorities to throw refugees out of collective housing and no problem for these refugees, who themselves set out to build their own house in one of the settlements in the territory of the municipality of Zemun - to create problems and make life difficult for them. Apparently, they are being taken into account by the High Commissioner for Refugees, and the EU, and some Igmanic Initiative, and allegedly the Government of the Republic of Serbia and allegedly this Gilas here. All verbally take care of them, and when you need to separate some dinar, focus -- because it's impossible that someone after 16 years still doesn't have their status solved, then jump like this, you make these incidents. So, since we've resumed today, you kids -- don't vote for the Democratic Party, because she doesn't see kids in this budget. You refugees, don't vote for the Democratic Party -- no matter what you vote for them, they'll drive you out sooner. I suggest that in the voting day, we show an elementary readiness, and with that word we started this session this morning, because Mrs. Hope Kolundjia is extremely absent today - she started this day with the words that they are ready. We are calling them today to see what their readiness is and for the citizens of Serbia to understand - 40 and a few days needed to reach this budget proposal from that building to this building. Forty-one days, and now because of their inner dance, over 90% of the sale of NIS, they're pleading for temporary funding and they want to transfer all the burden of responsibility to the opposition, and they're destroying where they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11503	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Petkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11504	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs Dragutinovic, today we are discussing the most important law adopted by the Republic Parliament, although at the end of the deadline, but not before the end of the deadline when this budget was to be adopted, which is December 15th, but before the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to remind you once again, it is Monday 29th at midnight. I will not talk about how late the budget was 40 days on the way from the government to the Assembly, I will not talk about the violation of the Budgetary System Act, nor will I talk about the fact that in certain provisions of this bill, economic policies have been annulled and violated. I'm sorry Mr. Bradic, the culture minister who was just here, isn't here right now. I believe and I'm sure he couldn't direct this tragedy either. I would remind you that in October, the DSS proposed five laws and a series of measures to overcome the economic crisis and pointed to the measures to be taken and installed in the 2009 draft budget law. Unfortunately, it was only in December that we discussed the first measure of the government and for now the only measure adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Deposit Insurance Act. I will also remind you that negotiations with the IMF lasted three weeks, and that the agreement with the IMF has been postponed to sign somewhere for half of January. We heard from Mrs Dragutinovic that the most significant economic indicators in this agreement will not be changed. We sincerely hope that's the case, but we really have reason to doubt it. What is the fact and the biggest regret of the DSS parliamentary group is that unreally planned revenues are in this draft budget. We're sure they won't even come to an 80% rate, but that stays ahead of us to see what it'll all look like next year. The fact is, it's a major budget deficit. It amounts to almost 50 billion dinars. Credits are 40 billion dinars, which come next year. Minister Mrkonjic has pledged to pay tolls of 20 billion dinars. Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic said that Serbia's Treasury currently has liquidity problems, and at this point, budget users are waiting for about 25 billion dinars to be paid off. It's just math that results in it being far above 100 billion dinars. The fact is that the Republic of Serbia has a massive administration, that the cabinet is one of the largest in the Balkans, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has 62 state secretaries. The fact is that the budget has been poorly charged since 2008 and according to data from the finance ministry's website, budget filling was below expected in October and November, below planned. What is an indication that this situation will improve in December, which is normal for December, but I can imagine what it will look like in January, as it will certainly feel a significant drop in budget filling. When the planned unilateral application of the trade agreement is added, reduced revenues by about 300m euros -- I don't think Serbian citizens are waiting for a bright future in the coming year. In response, the government proposes to increase the excise duty on gasoline, on liquid and oil gas, on coffee, beer and other products - reducing excise duties on luxury goods, and on increasing those supplies that really use the widest layer of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It wouldn't be serious if I didn't look back on one of the government's priorities next year, which is agriculture. In this budget, the government of the Republic of Serbia envisions a reduction in subsidies by 1/4 for agriculture. How this will affect both our agriculture and the lives of all Serbian citizens, I do not think it should be specifically elaborated. The fact is, we have a balance of payments deficit, and it's the government's fault. The fact is that we have a drop in the inflow of capital -- it's also the government's fault. We've tried amendments, personally to Article 5, where I've provided for bigger funds for the Agency for the Attraction of Foreign Investments -- to increase those funds, so they don't do anything in the following year. We'll see if the amendment is accepted by the minister. The spending in the NIP has been reduced -- it is also the government's fault. Start-up credits have been reduced -- again the government is guilty of it. The fact is, in 2008, there will be no investment. In fact, this budget will be spent on salaries, on social contributions, and Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to make sure there will be no investment -- there will be no new roads, there will be no new greenfield investments, because such conditions are simply in the environment, and of course in Serbia. In the budget rebalancing debate, we heard from PUPS representatives -- let's wait for a new law that is being prepared in the government, and then we'll discuss whether this second promise of increasing PUPS pensions has been fulfilled. Amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act have frozen. Since inflation is 8%, the real value of these pensions will be 8% less than on January 1st 2009. Thus, 1,700,000 pensioners will live at least 8% on 31 December 2009, if assumptions are made how much inflation will be worse than on January 1st. However, I must commend Mrs Dragutinovic - she suggested that pensions do not increase linearly and we supported her position. We just don't understand why the government didn't accept this proposal and why it didn't. We fully supported this, but we do not understand why the government did not accept the IMF proposal, which proposed that pensions increase by 5% in 2008 and that they increase in 2009 for inflation growth. That way the pension increase would be over 13%. Again, colleagues from the PUPS have proposed an amendment to this member of the budget, but they have proposed it so that it will be untimely, so that it will not be debated. Once again, they confirm how they advocate their pre-election promises. The question I'd like to get an answer to is, how much in the consolidated balance sheet of the state does there have to do with public enterprises and local self-government? Will all planned funds for transfers to local self-government be met during December and will there be enough of these funds for next year? What is a fact and what we have not seen in the transitional and final provisions of this bill, and what should have certainly been added, is that for all the costs that the Government provides for specific programmes, a report must be submitted once a year to the National Assembly on the implementation of these programmes. The fact is that if this budget is not adopted, if we are forced to go on temporary financing, it is a confirmation that there is political instability in the country, that there is a huge disagreement in the government over this bill and that the government will implement the policy of the previous year, from 2008. How are we going to sign an agreement with the IMF if we go to temporary funding, from which we will receive loans from abroad if we do not adopt this budget, it is a matter for the government and I hope that it will find an answer to that question. I'm sorry Mr. Bradic isn't here, because we all love theater, but not in the government. Bad actors don't deserve a round of applause, and certainly this draft budget law doesn't deserve the support of DSS MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11505	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11506	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens, Madam Minister, the amendment submitted by my colleague Veroljub Arsic concerns the way in which the deficits expressed by this budget are financed and reads: "The funds needed to finance the results set out in Article 1 of this law and includes expenditure on repayment of the principal of the debt, amounting to 42.7 billion, will be provided from privatisation income and donations. "Just from privatisation incomes and donations, as existing and real sources, because this fits into the concept of our approach to real elections of financing this budget. The Government's reply states that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is essentially contrary to Article 10(2) and I will immediately stop there. The budget system literally makes it clear that the amendments are being submitted, because if one position in terms of surplus deficit or change of some positions is being placed as an amendment request, it immediately responds to the red light of the Budgetary System Act - it is not acceptable. I believe that you will change that part of the Budgetary System Act, but I find it interesting that you, as an excuse for opposition, are in fact stating our request. And it says that if that amendment were accepted, we would be left behind, in addition to the source of funding proposed by the amendment, and the rest -- now we disagree -- what are real sources of funding for the proposed deficit. You believe that a real source of funding is credit, financial assets of the budget and broadcasting through the issue of government securities of value. That's exactly where we disagree. The theoretical loan is a real source of funding, but I ask a question -- what are the limits of the Serbian state's gross product, what are budget borders and the possibilities of Serbian citizens' wallets to fill the budget and return credit? I made a joke, it's not really a joke, it's a big truth that the budget is a wallet with hidden bulkheads, in which the government is trying to hide as much as possible some budget users who spend the most, and the least they can see, or through the pooled items of income, other and aggregated items, as much blur the sources of income as possible, as well as sources of funding. Now that I'm saying that credit is a theoretically real source, but it also needs to be created a real source for its return, I'm actually sending a political message that there is no need to fund the budget deficit through the broadcasting of state securities of value. They repeat one very important thing. In last year, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and with the signature of the Director of the Treasury of Mr. Ivan Maricic, I am not sure that he was authorised, under the Law on Public Debt, under the Law on the Budgetary System, to carry out emissions of such state charters of value, to which the government explained not a problem in liquidity or irregular inflow, but the government wants to give quality trade material for the financial market. It's like a shallow market, there's not enough material, so let's trade. In some seven shows last year, a value charter was broadcast by the vault. At the same time, the National Bank of Securities of Values broadcasts and competes on the market with each other two state institutions. Papers of the value of the National Bank buy "on line", meaning, in a very non-transparent direct computer connection trade, several persons for whom it is difficult to find out who buys paper from the values that the NBS emits. They buy banks, but I'll bring you how employees in banks appear, as individuals who buy for themselves these securities of value, which bear a safe interest greater than the reference rate and which are the direct cause of the loss created by the National Bank to all of us, by sterilizing and withdrawing extra money in this way, as the only possible way, makes hundreds of millions of euros of direct losses to the National Bank. And on the other hand, it gives the banks a lot of money, gives certain sources to banks to earn with the safest broadcaster of these charters, which is the state, by withdrawing money, less money for loans to citizens and businesses, because by buying repo paper from the National Bank, they channel their sources to this safe and easy profit, which is no money to offer to the citizens, an offer to the economy, and we expect production. You can't tell me that a real source of state record emissions is of value and no one can tell me that it's guided by good intentions when it deals with this kind of deficit coverage. When you take who shows up as a winner in this process, the income has become bank balances, the National Bank showed a direct loss and last year Mr Djelic asked, from this pay phone, Mr Jelasic's question as governor -- when do you think you can return 50m euros to the Republic of Serbia's budget? Then I asked a parliamentary question, which no one gave an answer to. I asked -- what kind of NBS debt is this to the budget? How much does the NBS owe, on what basis, who approved it, based on what powers, on what conditions, on what deadline, for what purpose? Never answers. That these questions are open, it's just saying that the paper show is the value of an instrument that is known in the world, but it's being abused with us. It's being abused because it's a story that it doesn't cost much, and when I can't even check in the budget how much interest is paid in this kind of trade for those who bought these securities of value, as I can't even see if the funds, which fill their current accounts, are buying these securities from value, and we're represented by the situation -- there's not enough money, you have to save. When someone broadcasts securities under the Public Debt Act, the budget can do so, or the budget vault, only if there is a problem with current liquidity. At the time when the surplus was published, last year, half of it, such securities of value were broadcast. Secondly, it is said that it is the right to emissions of long-term charters and, believe it or not, 30 days is treated with long-term emissions. Although we are the opposition really reading these papers, we know what a world experience is and it's very embarrassing to keep this quiet when we know that it produces direct negative consequences, back to that budget. However you turn the budget is filled out of the pockets of citizens who receive salaries, in an economy that works or does not work, which has problems with course, with exports, with imports, and everything is ultimately not high policy, not the knowledge of governors, not mystified monetary-credit policy, but the simplest and most direct life, in which they do not know, but the insolent ones who are allowed to fill their pockets, and those others, who do not have protection in responsible and serious economic policy, are permanently losing. I would also like to point out that in terms of real budget financing you owe to citizens, and I am asking you as a member of Parliament's Forward Serbia club, that your own sources of revenue generated by budget users, because they use the monopoly of the state to provide a service, such as a vault that performs payment traffic, like many who do business in the name of the state and will first come to the counter, have to show these sources to you, and you, and to the whole public, transparently, individually. And to give us the court fees, and not to tell the judiciary they need money and there are court fees, to separate us from the consular fees, so that we know why some embassies don't have decent and normal conditions for their functioning and they have to cope, and that each of the sources of income, to class seven, and income from interest on deposits by sight, and to the disarming of funds, income from natural wealth fees, income from dividends that are due to public enterprises to show, that we see that individually. You have made a great effort to, as far as it is at this point, respect and appreciate it, be able to give as much detail as possible, but believe that it is not enough, not because we are in crisis and not because in this shortage we need to make an account, but because it must be a practice of a responsible and qualified state, which simply requires of its citizens, of which the right to spend some money, must also be accounted. At a time when you have a para-state apparatus based on Perkins's law -- a bell system, of 7,000 to 28,000, you have to show the citizens that you don't only think about those who help you do this job, but that you think about every citizen and that they will, indeed, trust you, know that they will reciprocate the moment when you are given a grade in the election. Why I don't think credit is real enough, because it's gonna be hard to get it back, but at the same time it's not even a transparent source. In a set of these laws, which we haven't had a word to talk about, we have a bill on confirming the loan agreement, providing improved services at the local level. I don't know if this is an oversight of the mass of work or whether it's training the tenacity of you over the MPs, to provide us with a loan agreement, which was concluded on 11 April 2008 and where in chapter 4 - the entry into force and the conditions for termination is that if it doesn't come into force, it's not ratified, 150 days from the day of signing, it's broken. In addition, it was only necessary to deliver one piece of paper that this was not an agreement on the loan of the expiry date in September, because April plus five months is the ninth month, but that those who offer us the loan extended the term of importance of this loan. What can I further comment on this loan, which is 32m euros, if I don't even know if it's the real subject of our conversation. I don't think that's a little bit of a thing, but it doesn't take a lot of effort, and when you're proposing real budget financing, you really do it. Thank you. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11507	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Stevanović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The draft budget law and in Article 2 I felt that the words "privatization incomes and loans" should be deleted. As far as the government's reasoning is concerned, I'll read it for two reasons, the first is technical, and the second is essential. It is said that the amendment is not accepted because it is basically not in accordance with Article 10(2) of point 3 of the Budgetary System Act, which found that the amount of the budget deficit and the way it is financed is determined by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, that I am not reading any further. The government rejected the amendment because it considers that the amendment, i.e. the proposal, does not comply with the Budgetary System Act. Today we received a report from the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in which the Committee was set up according to amendments which are legally possible and which are not. My amendment to the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. It means he's not in college with the Budget System Act. Who's right? Government or Legislative Committee? There's one objective question to ask, but I don't have a dilemma here. They can't trust each other. I'd like to deal with the essentials. As long as you demonstrate in this way how superficially and flatly you approach these amendments and how you reject them by difolt, as well as many other amendments that you may have been able to find a reason to accept them, I don't think you can expect that there is a willingness of the opposition to compromise and to agree, and even when it comes to such an important thing called the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. This to you on the soul and responsibility of the government, of course, not to you personally. In principle, it speaks of you and speaks in favour of the fact that you have acted quite irresponsiblely when the budget of the Republic of Serbia is at stake for next year. As a matter of fact, with my amendment, I didn't want to finance the privatisation deficit and the loan. This is why I want it, Mr. Minister. Let's touch the loan first. As for the loan, they're a real source of income, it stands, but the loans, you'll agree with me, the rock around the door, the loans are an extension of the agony in which the state is located, the spilling from the hollow to the empty, but the money you get from the loan is objectively real. I don't think it's real, but the other side of the loan certainly represents a ballast for the collapsed economy of the state that you, along with the government, are leading. As far as privatisation is concerned, Madam Minister, I also believe that the funds coming into the budget are realistic on the basis of the privatisation of the company. Now an objective question is raised - how much can this country expect in next year on the basis of privatisation? Mr. Vlahovic said in his presentation, when he spoke as a representative of the parliamentary group, that it was about 30 billion dinars, but that it was maximum. One question arises when privatisation is what we can expect in the next year 2009. Serbia is expected to privatise, I think, 300-350 companies. One objective question arises -- is that the figure with which you, not you personally, repeat once again, the Government, you can cope in relations and in the political environment that we will live in, and economic life in 2009? What should certainly be said when privatisation of businesses in Serbia is at stake should certainly take into account the fact that there will be very little money in the coming year and there will not be enough social and liquid companies on the domestic market that will be able to buy businesses. One part or most of the government will even be forced to privatise these companies through bankruptcy proceedings, and what experience this country has had with bankruptcy I think you witnessed here today. One such company went through bankruptcy, later through privatisation, today representatives of the company were in front of the Republika Srpska Assembly building, otherwise for 20 days already sitting, sleeping and eating, staying and drinking outside the presidency of the Republic of Serbia, and the government has not yet found it appropriate for these people to receive, listen and see their problems. That, of course, is not just a problem with Belgrade's department stores. The question is, what's up with "Synthelon" from Backa Palanca, what about "The Worker", what about "Becca" and so on. Madam Minister, we need to talk a little bit about what will happen to privatising public enterprises that represent an objective ballast state, an objective ballast on the Republic of Serbia's budget, especially in the coming year. Does the state have a serious strategy for privatising public enterprises, for example, Serbia's Railway, Telekom or the Elektroprivreda of Serbia? Is there a clear concept of what these companies are and what kind of privatisation should be? There are public enterprises that the government's willingness to sell, to privatize them, like "Yat," for example, but there's no interest in buying "Yat". What's the problem, too, is that these are enterprises that, not all of them, but a good part of them, do business with loss and they objectively represent, along with many things, with the irrational behaviour of many in the country, the ballast, or the stone around the neck, quite the starting budget of the Republic of Serbia, or economic opportunities in the coming year. When we open a story about privatising public enterprises, it needs to be brought down to the local level. At the beginning of 2007, the government tried to impose a strategy and local self-government on the privatisation of public enterprises and to bring it in by the end of 2008. Is any of the public enterprises at the local level privatized? Of course not, and local companies, i.e. local public enterprises, do not directly represent a stone around the neck of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but they certainly represent indirectly. They represent because they spend the budgets of local self-government, yet there are funds from which capital transfers from higher levels of government are transferred to local self-government and then take into account the fact that neither local self-government nor the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state, are yet to have and are not ready to make programming budgets for local self-government. The question arises where do these funds go, how are they spent, who are holding them, or in what way? That's the so-called. subsidies, local self-government determines, defines subsidies for public enterprises, these funds are transferred to public enterprises, and then local, not to express myself, local cabadias by public enterprises take everything, and what they need and what they don't need, by means that objective people single out in one difficult and inappropriate way for a man in the 21st century. Madam Minister, that is why I believe that the funds that will eventually be managed through privatisation should not be determined to meet the budget deficit. I believe that privatisation funds should be pushed into production, say, through the Development Fund, through small, medium-sized enterprises to try to revive the economy, to revive those who will carry on economic life in all the years to come in this country. You will face a fall in your budget next year due to an unreasonable decision to unilaterally apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so in 2009 in Serbia the luxury will be that you drink coffee, use cigarettes, drink wine, but, of course, those who have the money to allocate funds to buy Mercedes, Ford or bmv will certainly be spared, because customs on luxury, through these cars, will naturally be shot down and you know it well. Twenty-three billion dinars next year, based on a reduction in customs duties due to the unilateral application of the Stabilisation Agreement, will be lost on the revenue side of the budget. It's probably all from Nemina 11 that looks so sheretish, well, somehow we'll get through it, but people who feel that fat on their skin aren't ready to take it much longer. Of course, I think that money should go into the economy, into development, especially these export branches, I think it's rational. I don't think anyone would see anything wrong and recognize it. It is unfortunate that there is no willingness for such a thing in the government this time, especially when funds for such things are allocated, the criteria for the allocation of funds are again personal, political, neighbourly, family and friendly. Of course, those who could possibly, in this economic sense, offer to the state and society something to offer and provide, remain depriving of the funds, and those who have enough never, never enough, get that one chain of wheels, obviously, that they will never break up until you have a chance to decide on economic opportunities in the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11509	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Radulovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11510	The honourable presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, as a result of the budget's late 40-day proposal, not only lies in the negotiations that the government has conducted with the IMF, but there is another reason there is also another reason, which is also evident from the appearance of many members of the government, one disagreement in the government, and simply this budget contains those components that indicate that inter-party reconciliation was between coalition partners, all at the heart of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They are citizens who expect much, I repeat once again, from this budget, and at the same time with full rights they expect it, because most of the budget is filled with taxes and those obligations that citizens pay. The amendment, which I submitted to Article 2 is essentially an amendment defining the budget deficit, amounting to 28,443,869,100 is changed by 27,978,133,777 dinars. It is an analogue amendment to Article 1 as it relates to the reduction of expenditure on goods and services. I will quote only part of Article 2, where it is said: "The funds needed to finance the results made in Article 1 of this Act and contain a budget deficit of 28,443,869.100". The objective of this amendment is to reduce the necessary resources to reduce and reduce the budget deficit. Unreal expectation of covering the deficits by selling companies, and we are witnessing that in this year there were a large number of unsuccessful privatisations, we have large systems that were not privatized, mentioning only JAT, the Mining-Topic Baseline "Bor", IMT Rakovica, "Progress", these are just some of the large companies that were not privatized and because of, above all, the inability of this government that could not introduce them into a normal process, were not even interested, and in some privatisations there were unwitting, such as, the JAT example, where the government was not prepared to do all that was necessary to privatise JAT. Expensive funds and less and less borrowing opportunities do not give us the necessary optimism to expect the budget to be filled in the way the government expects it to be next year. I mean, first of all, the financial crisis that we talked about here several times when we held a debate about the deposit. The DSS MPs have tried several times here to show the government that the government's obligation to respond in time to all the challenges, and above all to the crisis which, at the moment we talked and pointed out, knocked on Serbia's door. Then, by some, I am sorry that your secretary of state is not here today, that we MPs of the DSS explain to him and to clarify finally his response to the Finance Committee, when the DSS, members of the board, pointed to the danger of the economic crisis and made suggestions on how to overcome this crisis, when Mr Ilic, the State Secretary, said that we were spreading panic and defetism among Serbian citizens. Apparently, he was wrong. It is obvious that the result of such a decision and such a response is an untimely response to this financial crisis and the burden of it and the cost, above all, borne by the citizens of Serbia, of which you expect the greatest solidarity now for all that awaits them in the coming year, and above all, I mean the crisis that will hit them most. The government, first of all, and we're all here for citizens. The citizens chose us. The assembly majority chose the government and the government must be aware that it is responsible for such a relationship with something and an untimely reaction. The financial crisis, indifference, is being dragged around by a large number of unemployed, a large number of workers are on forced leave. I'd like to mention "Longing" from Kruševac, "Neven" Leskovac, "Merim" Leskovac, Azotara Shabac, in which these days, in reports on all the information shows, we listen to the cry of workers and demands to help them overcome what is their biggest problem, and the biggest problem is just work. Every day here, in front of the Assembly building or in front of the Government, we have dissatisfied workers who expect to receive adequate compensation for their work, for what they have installed in certain enterprises, to be paid what they have earned. Reduced revenues for 2008 show us that we cannot expect this budget with optimism, and its execution in the coming year. Rebalancing is the planned income of 650 billion. For the first 11 months, 584, 66 billion were missing. Let's just say, to be optimistic, there's still going to be about 15 to 20 billion missing. Tax revenues are planned from 606 billion, reached in the first 11 months -- 526, down 80 billion. It is estimated that by December 31st there will be some shortage of 40 billion. Forced vacations, the automotive industry, the metal complex suffers due to reduced demand, the price drops. At the same time, we have an increase in prices of broad consumption, inflation, and we have a drop in demand. The decline in demand is that the budgeting based on VAT, both in this year and next, will be less than expected. The main problem is the decline in exports, the decrease in capital inflows, reduced purchasing power, the deficit planned for 2008 is 46 billion, and will likely be 50 billion. That's some assumption, because I'm afraid in such a short time we won't have an adequate charge that would cover the difference of four billion. Number of employees - 1.994.159. In the previous three months, the decline in industrial production has been 6%, the largest since 1999, since the growth index of industrial production has been measured, leading to a decrease in the number of employees. It was estimated that in the last month alone, almost 5,000 workers were out of work. According to the IMF report, we spend more than we make for 500 billion. In 2009, the planned revenues are 10% higher than this year. They're planned for 698 billion. VAT revenues are planned for 338 billion, which is unrealistic in these conditions. Economists don't give optimistic forecasts. A large number of companies are expected to stop working, to go bankrupt, to have an increase in the number of unemployed. The announcement by Governor Jelasic himself, I will repeat, that we are expected in April to review the budget, suggest that the budget is not well drawn, as long as, in the first quarter, we are expected to drop exports. The wave of the global crisis will hit us in March and April. If you think about increasing taxes or VAT, I think it will be a bad move, because it will be a terrible blow to the pockets of all Serbian citizens, which will greatly affect their living standards. Finally, the incompetent government definitely does not have a clear economic policy and the price of such a government will pay the most citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11511	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11512	This is an amendment that follows one of the previous ones, I think that Radulovic has also submitted an amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. It covers only one part of Article 2, covering the first third of the member, which is a reduction in the budget deficit, I think, by about 500 million dinars. However, what the Government is opening as a question and as a problem, because they do not know how to open the question, but all they open is the immediate problem, and the planetary one, is the way they formulated these solutions in Article 2. It's a bill of law. You see, in the first part of this article, there is a budget deficit of 28.5 billion dinars. Then the second part goes -- spending on obtaining 21.5 billion dinar financial assets. The third part is the payment of the principal debt of nearly 43 billion dinars. Then the sum shall be displayed. I don't understand why you put all this together. You could have divided all of this into three special positions within this article, but this below shows why you put it all together. As a source of coverage, i.e. funds to pay these commitments, the first source of privatisation will be provided. That means a little more of this to be sold out in the privatisation process. There will also be state and social enterprises, social and state capital. We don't know their projection of how much it should be in 2009, but we certainly know that everything in 2009 is going to be cheap. It will be cheap because of the total collection of companies going into the privatisation process there are those where several times sales failed, so it is fully expected to be bamboo. Next, another source is credits. We don't know what the total amount to which the state has to repay in 2009 is to settle these responsibilities of 92 billion. The third source is donations. The fourth source is the financial assets of the budget and is only the fifth broadcast of state securities of value. We don't know by sources how much we're planning, we don't know if there's only one source going to work, whether they're all going to work cumulatively, in what amount and how we're going to control economic policy through the budget. Just to remind you that for the past five or six years, we have not had the pleasure of discussing here any final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, not for 2001, and not for 2007. We didn't get a chance to discuss it here, and when we didn't discuss it, it means no one knows how they spent the money. These 7-8 years, they just come in agreement with the budget law to approve their spending, and how it's spent, what it's spent, how much it's spent, we don't know. We're sporadically getting some information about how it was in the first three months, the first six months, nine months. Let me just remind you, when we were reviewing the 2008 Budget Rebalancing Act last month, we had some data back then, but that's not the final account, and it's not the data that can replace the final account, so before the final account comes to the National Assembly, it would have to survive the revision and one professional control. They don't want that control, and for seven years they've insisted that "Blic", "Pres", RTS, B92 are quite enough to file a final account with them, because they need to provide media support for these operations that are going on. What's interesting is that when these amounts turn into euro, it's about a billion and 100m euros. So, a billion and a hundred million euros will have a commitment, according to their assessment. I'm sure there's nothing to change about this part of the budget deficit, unless a new interstate agreement is made. I wouldn't be surprised if the IMF opened up and helped to save themselves in the IMF's loved ones. What you really have to say, a few years ago I pointed out, but there was no possibility, you know what Dinkic is, he doesn't understand it or understand it. There's a problem here, and I think that next time we change the law that defines the budget system that these changes have to be made. Why? If we look at the budget deficit in a narrow sense of how you've shown it and these costs for the purchase of financial assets, and we're looking at debt payments, it all has to be budget expenditures. The budget has to show those funds. The sources have to be found on the revenue side of the budget. They have to. Because the Republic of Serbia, when paying off its debt, must repay it with its own resources, and all the funds of the Republic of Serbia must be shown in the budget. Dinkic didn't realize it either. I could mathematically prove to you that budget spending next year will not be as you said 748 billion but will be 748 billion plus 42 billion. No, this is a debt payment, that's what I said, you have to have a source for a debt payment, you have to show that source in the budget. You can't show it to the National Bank. It's not double counting, no, it's not double counting at all. Budget is the simplest thing. On the one hand, you have income, and on the other hand you have expenses. If you've agreed to them, that's fine. If there are higher expenditures than revenues, you have to look for a reserve to cover that surplus expenditure on incomes and end of story. It was probably, once upon a time, so in this country, finance was run by far more experts than Dinkic and Djelic. No Lazar Pachua, it was Dinkic who named him. Don't take him, please, there were people in this country who knew a little of that finance. You have to show everything, not act like a zombie. You have to say everything and we know what source to pay for it. What's the cost? There's income, there's cost. All revenues should allow for the realisation of all costs. If all expenses can't be covered by it, there's got to be a source. Whether it's broadcasting securities of value, whether it's credit, whether it's borrowing. He has to. You will now sell at any cost what no one will buy, but when you honor he will, let's take it and there won't be any problems. Let it sound empty, it sounds empty anyway. That's right, it is, that's right. That's your economic policy of destruction, total destruction. It is a destruction, because you planned 87m euros less for next year in the agrarian budget. Why less? Because with this customs policy that you are announcing next year and the agricultural and food products coming from abroad will be cheaper and you will stop the subsidies for agriculture at the same time. That's a double damage. You see on this case the tragic consequences of the unilateral application of your SPSS. That's how it's gonna be with Fiat, that's how it's gonna be with free action, whatever you guys get yourself dry, people, is that clear? What you're getting yourself into, it's drying out. There she is, the army she was, and now what she was. What's the army like now? Explain to me, please, they won't have a warm meal, they won't have a marenda, the barracks are empty. You stepped off the tanks in Sartide, you sold that iron and Sartide finished the job, now he's blocking the production, he doesn't care, he's acting economically. Send Minister Rasim Ljajic to order them back to work. You citizens are free to demonstrate and strike there on the periphery. You must be here in Belgrade. They only see you here. Not with three tents there, so Tadic gave you a moving toilet, and came in the back door so he wouldn't see you. No, a little massier, by order of the President of the Republic, you kept your jobs, so he said, that's what you decided in Subotica, in the open part, you had a secret fight. You have six factions, I know. That's your problem. I'm not rooting for any faction, let me tell you right now, my point of view - you're all the same. So this member in the area where these responsibilities of 92.5 billion dinars are to be covered is absolutely uncertain. It's possible it'll all be secured through a loan. Donations, donations, I doubt it, because no one from the West will invest in you, no one else's snake burns, and he's afraid of lizards. That saying goes west as well. Right there, they saw that you can't drive this ship, see, it's clear to them. They're looking for another bird racer. You're headed that way. It's to finish this, since it's about to end. So today we agreed, everyone who has children don't vote for DS, because they don't want to separate more money for childcare, they prefer their computers and services by contract. We agreed, young talents, this government doesn't want to hear about you, you're a burden, cost, cost. As for the scholarship of young athletes, you are looking for some sponsor elsewhere, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia you won't find him, because they don't want to allocate funds for it either. As for MPs' initiatives on this side to reduce the deficit, you don't have to spend that much, you said, those costs are necessary, even at the cost of debt. The next lesson we have learned is to move with savings to banks where the state, the Republic of Serbia, has founding capital, has actions and management rights, and you through your Agency for Rehabilitation and Bank bankruptcy are also exercising those governing rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. There's a three-stage deposit protection, a savings deposit, to shut down that system, everyone's protected. I have a duty to the citizens to give them the highest quality lesson. I'm aware that it's difficult for you to get into your head. I'm fully aware. I'm aware of that risk, too. There are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they need to listen, to hear this, of course they watch RTS, the Second Channel, the National Assembly transfer, someone doesn't like it, someone likes it, by choice, but here's a place where you can hear the truth, because it's not there in Blic, in Pres, or in the B92, or in the yellow where they take pictures of those who drink coffee etc. Here, we like each other, we don't like each other, there's time, they'll tell the citizens what it is and what it's like. You must know in advance what awaits you. Please keep your jobs with all means, if someone comes to your job first, call Rasim Ljajic and ask for 90% of the expedition, as he has been expeditious as the president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. That's where they put him for a year and he's been here eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-26-0.u11513	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you for today's work. We're done for today. I would like to inform you, no matter what the usual Fridays and Saturdays and Sundays are, given our agenda, how important it is to pass the budget law, that we will work on Saturdays and Sundays from 10.00 to 22:00 hours, and that we will vote the budget on December 29th to 24:00 hours. That's why I'm asking you tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. to continue our work. Thank you.
