ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't believe that in a very short time we would have the same reasons to report to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225th and 226, such as the problem we had in October with the Belgrade City Assembly. Unfortunately, we have come very quickly to the situation that we have the same actors, or the same creators of the illegal operation of the City Hall. So there's no improvisation, I'll read you a stenogram. You remember the problem of the last call, when we had to convince you a little longer that the Belgrade City Assembly had brutally broken the law, the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, and that we had to convince you here in the Assembly, until it had been accepted by your ministry, to annul the decision of the Belgrade City Assembly, and that this was the first time in the history of the Belgrade City Assembly to annul one decision. Unfortunately, we have come to the situation that this decision taken at the constitutional session, too, will have to be annulled when mandates have been verified to the councils of the Belgrade City Assembly, because the decision was completely illegal. Not to tell you, it started with the establishment of the agenda, that it's V.D. The mayor, or the president of the Assembly, sent one agenda and another agenda, that the agenda was not in line with the Rules of Procedure. Erem, when he refused all remarks by the board that the agenda proposed by Parliament Speaker Zoran Alimpic was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, he set out the agenda. You will recognize the participants, because you have had the opportunity to hear and in the previous case, the actors are the same. President Branislav Belic says: "The question was whether there was a proposal to amend or supplement the proposed agenda you received"? Mrs. Kolundjia, I'd like you to listen, since it's the DS that we're not surprised, to understand what this is about. Says President Branislav Belic: "The consolidated text, the last one you win, always stands." Take care of this explanation. "If there is no proposal to amend and supplement the agenda, I suggest that such a agenda be adopted and I ask who is to adopt this agenda, please raise your hand." Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I understand that the dukes have certain privileges, but in "Meridian Bank" and in some other institutions, and in the Serbian Parliament is the elemental order, Mr. Djelic, to come to the beginning of the session. Where you've been, I don't want to go in and I don't care, but it really doesn't make any sense for you to teach these colleagues to treat the Parliament like this and the MPs of the Assembly. Mrs. Dejanovic, I'm gonna have to start over, because this really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1308	Mr. Todorovic, you have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1309	Don't be afraid, I've got a lot more. I must remind you of a saying by Prince Milos, who said it was the easiest to remember through a wallet or through that part of the body that serves as a warning, so you apply some measures to Mr. Djelic and those who behave like this. MPs have the right to be late to begin with, and ministers and members of the government have no right to do so. Give me back my time. A vote for the agenda has begun in the Belgrade City Assembly. Of the 110 council members present, 54 voted. This is what Mr Belic observes and says, "I agree that 54 committee members voted for the draft agenda." There were 110 council members in the O.R. at the time, which means the agenda wasn't adopted. There's no doubt about it, I guess that's quite clear. You know when the agenda is adopted here, it has to be 126. If it's 125, the agenda hasn't been adopted. Mr. Belic goes on and asks, "Who's against it? ". And at that point, as they signal from his ranks, he says, "I suggest we take a half-hour break." The break was made, Mr. Vukic comes out and says: "Mr. Alimpic does not have the right to call the session, because the agenda was not adopted, because he was the technical face until the first session was called. It has been 20 days since the law envisioned when it has to schedule, no agenda was adopted at the session, no assembly of the Belgrade City Assembly and must follow things that go according to the law. (President: Please, will you bring the end of the exhibition? I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure again. (President: Which member is he now? ) Article 226. Listen now, you're going to learn something that you've given the opportunity to manage the Belgrade City Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1310	Mr. Todorovic, the word came first from Mr. Aligrudić, although it may be more economical that...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1311	If you think I have no patience to listen to Mr Milos Aligrudic, you are mistaken, I don't mind if Mr Aligrudic insists on coming out on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1312	You two make a deal, but I'd just like to honor the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1313	Here, Mr. Aligrudic gave it to me. Thank you. Easy, we've got patience. Says Mr Belic, you will learn something, among other things - since I interrupted the session at the moment we voted yes, I am obliged to continue this vote (this is a brilliant solution); now I ask you who is against, raise your hands, please count it; 40 against; whoever is abstaining - no hands raised. He says, please, silence, how many people are here at this moment - 54. Well, well, folks, is this normal, is it possible for you to have...? But, look, they weren't counting from Bodrum, they were counting from the O.R. This way, all I can get from a yellow company is to count, and I can count these encrypted ones, and I don't want to underestimate them. Be careful, after this, a Mr. Alimpic who is known for his intelligence is able to solve all the problems. Mr. Alimpic says, since it is normal that no agenda has been established and that the Assembly can't continue, he says this - the last set of quorum before the vote was 110 committees, given this situation we had, the interruption of the session and the unclear result of the vote, I suggest that the vote be repeated with a call. It's just amazing what Mr. Alimpic is clear if this was unclear to him. Of the 110 deputies 54 voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no agenda was adopted, hence, further continuation of the Belgrade City Assembly was not possible. To confirm that, I'll give you from the stenogram of Mr. Alexander Antic's words, which he also says - the SPS did not vote when setting the agenda out of one of its views that on a matter of an act which is non-existent it is not possible to come to a statement. So, absolutely, the facts are undeniable. The agenda was not adopted, a further continuation of the Belgrade City Assembly was not possible. In the follow-up session, when the SRS committees came out, there was a new breach of the Rules of Procedure because a verification committee was elected, the Belgrade City Assembly's Rules of Procedure clearly states that members of the verification committee, three members must be from the ranks of parties with the largest number of votes in a row. The first was DS, the second SRS, the representative of the SRS was not in the commission. Well, we know that you can or are trying to do whatever's in your interest, but I'm warning you... I'm aware that I've extended a little... I will respect, but compared to what you've done to the Belgrade City Assembly, this is a minimum. I am just warning both the DS and the public of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade to take care of what is happening in Belgrade. We have filed a complaint with the District Court, we have cited enough elements to support the fact that the Rules of Procedure have been violated and we expect the District Court to rule in accordance with the law, not under the political directive. I must warn you that we will not go over the abuse, as we have not crossed the previous one, and we are announcing to you in advance, if it is not followed by the law, we will insist on the rights that we have as MPs, to point out to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade what you are all prepared for, until we call you to the known rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1314	Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1315	Injury of Article 27, Art. of 130-140, Articles 160 and 161, Articles 104 and 226. In all of this, I would first say one sentence, that I fully support everything my predecessor put forward, when it comes to events in the city of Belgrade. However, we still have some problems in the National Assembly itself, in the way you conduct this session and the way you act as chairman of the Assembly, Madam President of the National Assembly. So, the next thing you know, you said to the public yesterday, in front of the TV cameras, I'm paraphrasing, because I can't quote -- that the session was interrupted, or that a break has been made to this day because the government has made a proposal to move the point of the 1st agenda to be the last item or any later, that this is all the result of the agreement at the meeting of the heads of Parliament groups. That, of course, was not true, as was not true either, and what you said a few days ago, when you said that the proposal of a group of 108 MPs for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly and, I will now read, the proposal for a decision of the National Assembly of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia was submitted following a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to call for an extraordinary session and a resolution on the continuity of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. That, of course, is not true. Yesterday, you called the heads of Parliament for a deal. The break certainly had to come due to the verification of the new MPs' mandate and the continuation of the session was scheduled for 14 hours, after which it was interrupted. I tried to call you after I hurt the Rules of Procedure at 14 hours, but you wouldn't let me do that. So it's hard for us to continue our work today until these circumstances are enlightened. We simply expect you to tell the peoples the truth about what is happening at the meetings of the heads of Parliament groups, we expect you to inform the public in a true way when you are already picking on the microphone and answering the questions of the journalists they are asking you. As far as the truth is concerned, it is true that a meeting of the heads of parliament groups was held, it is true that we were talking there about this original problem, when it comes to the government calling a meeting of the National Assembly with such agenda that is important for the fate of the state, and that these essential elements of the agenda or the content of the Kosovo and Metohija resolution were not agreed with opposition parties. It is true that the text of the Resolution has been submitted, with which someone who wants to maintain the real continuity of state policy cannot be satisfied. It is true that the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia has submitted an amendment to the text and the resolution that changes the text in general and simply brings it down to the text of the Proposal for a decision on the protection of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state and the sovereignty of the state, which was submitted on 16 June this year by a group of 108 MPs, simply because it would be included in the review of the work of the National Assembly. To all of this you have called a meeting, calling, possibly you or it was the initiative of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic himself, the Prime Minister, to come to the meeting. What we heard from the prime minister at the meeting was this proposal, that point 1, that is to consider the issue of the resolution on the continuity of state policy, move to be a later point, to obtain time and possibly reach agreement on the content of the text. This is not what the DSS asked you to do at that meeting, nor did we agree to this meeting, although we do not think that we are taking part in a possible conversation if this conversation is even launched. However, we can see that for today, for 16.15, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, with the agenda clearly showing that it is on the agenda that we are considering this resolution. I ask the question what exactly do you want to achieve? What is the goal of moving the point one to become the final point of the agenda? Why did you do that? It wasn't your speaker's request at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, the request was quite different, and what is in general the aim of all your public appearances and disinformation of the public you've done these days. So we simply and clearly asked this question to be cleared up. You said you found out about the proposal, submitted by a group of MPs on 16 June 2008, on July 10th. That's quite possible. I accept that you may have heard of it on July 10th, but it's not justified for you. What we expect of you, so that we can continue normally with the session and that we can go to the first scheduled item of the agenda according to the new proposal that the government has made, is that we get an unequivocal answer to the question: whether you should have found out about the proposal that was filed at the office on June 16th, is it normal for you to tell us here that you're learning about this proposal on July 10th from my memo, which is not how you should communicate with us and with the National Assembly. If it is not normal for you to admit your mistake, and to admit that it is not true that yesterday at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups, we agreed to move item 1 of the agenda for a later item of the agenda, at least that the representatives of the DSS did not agree to it, so that it cannot be agreed by all the heads of parliament groups and that it has nothing to do with your obligations under Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Until we get a satisfactory answer to this question, I don't think we'll be able to continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1316	Mr. Aligrudic, gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday I responded to the first part, and today it would only be a repeat. So I acted on the Rules of Procedure the moment I found out about the memo you spoke to me about. On the other hand, yesterday's agreement between the heads of parliament, which was attended by the prime minister and in which I participated, we agreed to change the order of the points, so that we would give the extremely important first point the opportunity for all of you who suggested that you participate actively in it, in preparation until it comes to the agenda, to give more time. The change in the order of the dots requires a break of 24.00 hours, i.e. a proposal to change the order of the dots must be delivered at least 24.00 hours before the beginning of the session, so I did and therefore we continue our work today. Mr Tomislav Nikolic answered the question. In case you are not satisfied with the answer, in the day for the vote, the Assembly will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report a violation of article 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I'd just like to quote you two or three points, I'll see. First position: The right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly, when considering all issues of its jurisdiction, has the Prime Minister. The government determines the members of the government representing it on a particular issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. Representatives of the Government at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees may only be members of the Government and secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation when the National Assembly session is on the agenda of the draft law prepared for the Government by the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives. There are 250 of us here, and I'd like us to respect the citizens who sent us here. We didn't come as a gift from someone, we were heroically struggling to sit in these benches and not allow, Mrs Dejanovic, that just because you're from a smaller political party, so I assume you have to listen to those who chose you here, at the National Assembly sessions, the officials working in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They don't belong here. This is neither a photo studio nor a hair salon, they cannot attend any sessions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not humiliate the National Assembly. According to Article 87, you had the right to invite some persons to participate in the work of the National Assembly, but you know very well that this does not apply to employees in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, I will report you to the Rules of Procedure until Mr. Djelic finely takes his associates out of the O.R., as he has brought them here. They don't belong here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1318	Thank you. This breach of the Rules of Procedure was founded and indeed the Prime Minister and Mr Djelic can attend in case the MPs advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and insist only on the presence of those as laid down in business. I'd like to ask our associates and those present to be respected and give us the opportunity to continue our work. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1319	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating a violation of article 27. For the sake of the public and the MPs, we would like to point out once again why it is very important for this issue to be discussed on the agenda of the motion for a decision that has been tabled by 108 MPs here. Two are very important reasons. One is that the way of communication, the way of respecting the MPs, the parliamentary groups in this assembly is fully respected, and thus the Rules of Procedure which define the rights of MPs and the rights of parliamentary groups. The second thing is the proposal for a decision on a very important topic for the state of Serbia. The point is that DSS-Nove Srpska and SRS parliamentary groups have proposed a proposal for a decision that in a very precise, detailed manner regulates issues of fundamental interest to the state of Serbia and the state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. You received a proposal from 108 MPs for this decision on 16 June. Let us all remember how it has been gendered in public about why at the time the oldest MP, Mr. Krkobibic, cannot schedule that session. Let us remember that he explained that he had no business opportunities, and that the newly elected president of the Assembly would immediately, according to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, schedule an extraordinary session and place this item on the agenda of that session. Let us remember that when a request came to the National Assembly, representatives of the ruling majority said that it was not necessary to declare to God any act that the illegal institutions of the false state of Kosovo declared in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, so that, after submitting this proposal, we would receive a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the form of a resolution. You, Madam President, have violated the Rules of Procedure, have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 106(3), and you have violated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because you have insulted the dignity of the MPs who, by respecting the Constitution, have proposed to the National Assembly one decision that rightly defines key issues of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. (President: Time, Mr. Palaic. ) You assumed that decision, contrary to the Constitution, the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in no way, by misleading the citizens, without explaining why you did it. Our parliamentary group will continue to insist on this issue. Of course, I am using this opportunity to fully join my distinguished colleague Dragan Todorovic's presentation on scandalous events in the Belgrade City Assembly, violation of the Rules of Procedure, the law and all that implies the fundamental right of the council to form a new city government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1320	Mrs. Milice, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1321	Madam President, please refer to me as Mrs Vojic-Markovic in accordance with the rules of decency. You and I don't know each other personally and we're not at some private gathering to keep talking to me with - Mrs. Milice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1322	I'm sorry, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1323	I'm referring to Article 225. Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a notice that I think is very important for any further work of this House. I have to remind you of a game that's been playing in our people for a long time, kids playing it, it's called a broken phone. What we're trying to get today and yesterday as information from you simply came down to a broken phone game. We're telling you one thing and we're asking you one thing, and you're telling us something completely different and you're giving us an answer to some question that no one has asked you. I just don't know if it's possible for 30 people to ask the same question and that you don't understand it or if it's about the intention of simply not understanding us. Furthermore, I must remind you that the Rules of Procedure stipulates that it is your obligation that every initiative a third of the MPs in this assembly must be put on the agenda at the next session, regardless of who signed the initiative and whether you like it or not. So, on June 16th, there is evidence of this, the DSS-New Serbia parliamentary group and the SRS parliamentary group, 108 MPs, signed an initiative for a decision called - a proposal for a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to protect sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. No matter who the president is, the president of parliament is a function, the one who leaves the post, the next inherits what has to be done, so it does not start from every president again in parliament's history. So on June 16th, that proposal was submitted. To this day he doesn't appear anywhere. I don't know why he wasn't put on the agenda when he was handed over and that's why I'm asking you for an answer. I think we have the right to at least get an answer, if our proposals aren't equally valuable to meet on some agenda. I have to be very suspicious and remind this parliament, given that there was an even more drastic case, when the famous amendment to the abolition of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights of Mr Đurisic traveled magically long from the office to this hall, it seems that our proposal travels even further.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1324	Since you're all at the same time, I'd like to ask the head of the parliamentary group to help me in my order. Here you go. Mr. Shormaz called first.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1325	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. That's the only member I advertise. You, too, are a Messenger of the people, to treat all the messengers of the people with respect. You don't behave like that. So I repeat, on 16 June, the SRS and DSS - New Serbia, 108 MPs, submitted a proposal for a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. None of you asked to put that item on the agenda. What was your obligation, not to continue to deceive the public and not to make out of all of us morons here, and you have to respect that you're talking to us, what you had to do is to schedule a session where that part of the agenda would be the first. It is logical that the point on Kosovo, when it comes to a resolution or decision concerning the Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, should be first on the agenda. Only in Vlada Cvetkovic-Dacek can this point be the last, not the first. No, he's Cvetkovic, Daček isn't here, I don't know why. You, even in this letter, which you sent Milos Aligrudic, meant to all the MPs of DSS and New Serbia, said - since I only learned from your letter on July 10th 2008, at a time when I was not yet elected president of the National Assembly, a group of 108 MPs delivered to the National Assembly in the procedure of the proposal for this decision. So, at that time, you were already the elected MP. Your mandate has been established, you sat here with us, Mr. Krkobic chaired. For days, all the media, electronic and written, were concerned with whether Krkobiæ could put this proposal on the agenda or not, as chairman of the constitutional session, could he make a precedent as it was made in the previous assembly's assembly. Mr. Shormaz, time. I'm finishing, but I've quoted, I've read your reply to the letter and quoted the Rules of Procedure. Be correct. Here you are, and you're not being correct and you're not behaving with respect again. So, you simply did not follow as a MP at the time, with this answer you say, that as a elected MP, with a mandate in place, you did not follow at all what was going on in the Parliament in mid-June and you were not interested in such an important issue as the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. That's what you're telling us. What right are you sitting on that chair with? Resign. With what right did anyone choose you? In what way do you perform the function of a MP? You're only the first of the equals here, you don't know what was going on then, and now we all have to keep quiet and say, the woman didn't know until July 10th. The whole of Serbia knows, there is no information show on which it was not, or it was more important for you at the time to negotiate on the formation of the government of Cvetkovic - Daček by the sheds, holes and other secret places. So, today, until you answer honestly, and until you say that you have manipulated the National Assembly, we will not give up, and for nothing, Mr Djelic came with the light, he will not begin the agenda until you admit that you have deceived both the MPs and the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1326	I'm setting a 15-minute break and I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to an agreement on further work. [[After break – 15.40]] Dear MPs, allow me first to inform you that we will continue our work today after 16.00 hours in relation to the agenda item that will be on the agenda after 16.00 and 16.00, respectively. Since a large number of NS MPs had practically the same question for the president of the Assembly, pardon the DSS, allow me to give citizens and you an answer that I hope will satisfy the members of this parliamentary group. So, once again in a row, how the activities related to this session took place and what was happening at the Office of the Assembly. First of all, I would like to inform you that on July 11th, in the morning, I was informed by the Secretary of the Assembly of Mr Aligrudic's letter, which was on several occasions a subject here and whose text is familiar and delivered to you and read here. I learned from that letter, and later found in the scribeship, that on 16 June, the DSS-NS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group delivered, together with the SRS, that 108 MPs had delivered the text to the Serbian Parliament, but it was the time period that I had already had, on the 10th afternoon of the government's proposal, scheduled this session that is now under way. So, the truth is that 108 MPs submitted a proposal on June 16th and the truth is that the proposal was not forwarded to the MPs, but I only did it on the 11th morning and I also informed Mr Aligrudic about it. If any of the actions I've done have led to a disturbance, I apologize, and I suggest we keep doing it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1328	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica of your exposure, because I've been mentioned. According to Article 100, very simply, what you just said could be said yesterday morning and I suppose there would be no need for this kind of announcement by the Rules of Procedure of the DSS. Therefore, it remains the impression that this injured Rules of Procedure, for the simple reason that someone elected to be President of the Assembly must know about the acts delivered, regardless of the fact that it is difficult to see all these powerful acts that are in the procedure, and cannot be justified by the reason that he has not arrived, especially when it comes to acts that have been taken into account during the new assembly's term and which have been discussed both in the public and in the media. From that point of view, the explanation is not satisfactory, but it is relatively acceptable from the aspect of respect for this home, to obtain at least one factually logical trail of what happened on your part and in this sense, regardless of what you may disagree with, nor can I accept as an excuse that this session of the National Assembly is not scheduled as an extraordinary session requested by 108 MPs, it will simply remain as a fact and a mistake that has been committed. At this point, after your relationship with us, which was supposed to come yesterday, much earlier, there is no reason for a further DSS group to report and point to this kind of injury to the MPs, because it has already been pointed out once. So, she was pointed out yesterday, it's pointed out now, and there's no need to continue insisting on it. At least thank you for the words of apology, it was necessary to do so earlier and thank you for this information that you have given, no matter what interpretation of this information, in its meaning when it comes to harming the Rules of Procedure and in its meaning when it comes to the political background of everything, we cannot agree at all, but even if this should be a reason not to discuss this further through the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. At least so much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1329	Mr. Todorovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dejanovic, I also drew attention to the meeting we held to take care of the consequences of your statement to the MPs. We accept that you didn't know, but you're in a place that means you have to know; I think it's clear to you that there's no dilemma. You have unequivocally stated by your statement that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and that is the problem you are now facing, that is, this congregation. Imagine if you came into a situation where a judge told you - I apologized for the verdict, but I didn't follow the law, because I didn't know that there was a member or that the service had passed the law or that dactylobiro couldn't get me all the witness statements, you know? That could somehow be an excuse, but only until the moment he reached his verdict. When he reached the verdict and admitted that he did not take all the facts into account, he was responsible at that point. You, as I recall, were an MP in the SRJ parliament when parliament found a breach of the Rules of Procedure, chairman Dragoljub Micunovic. You are now the second president of the Assembly in 20 years' time. Micun, however, has not confessed under threats, and you admit that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. So the logical question after all this -- what now and what are the consequences? You can wave your head off by tomorrow, all of you, but people need to respect some basic standards. Imagine the man who commits the offence or Boza Djelic puts 11m euros in it and says, "I'm sorry, I didn't know it was abuse of power. We say -- he didn't know, his aunt didn't tell him, etc. We warn him not to introduce this bulument here, that he is not late for the assembly session - even though he throws these out, but he is late again. Obviously, there's nothing you can teach him. He has to answer. Mrs. Dejanovic, you must know that you are carrying, from this moment on, the consequences of what you said. You've broken the Rules of Procedure and there's no dilemma. You had an act handed over by a group of 108 MPs and you were required by the Rules of Procedure to put it on the agenda. Reasons? We can respect them, but the consequences of that are - violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, and you have to bear the consequences. I know most people can decide everything, they can even say that God is a little fair -- a little fair and a lot unfair and you get one whole. But here are things you can't get past. How do you ask MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure? Why don't you explain to me how you're gonna tell someone, like I am now, because I'm really breaking the Rules of Procedure, I'm way out of line -- you're breaking the Rules of Procedure? I'll tell you - you're breaking too. If there's no consequences for you, then there's no consequences for me either. How do you plan on leading this congregation? That's the problem you faced. It's a calm conscience to me, because I warned you about it. That's what you had to take care of. Therefore, we expect you, in agreement with your coalition partners, to find a way out of this, otherwise follow what is only possible - to ask the question of your trust, and you to answer as you think is best for you. But believe me, you've come to a situation where there's no way out. In my opinion, the only honorable way out of this is to resign, so let the yellow company take a head start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1331	Thank you. I would just like to reply to you through Rules of Procedure, or Rule 166 which says, "The President of the National Assembly is delivering a request for an extraordinary meeting to the MPs and to the Government and determining the time when the National Assembly will meet", which I will also do regarding the proposal of 108 MPs. Here you go. Mrs. Radeta answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given the fact that this Parliament's work is public and that, thank God, we have a direct transmission, that the citizens of Serbia are following us, that they are monitoring our work, they are voters of all of us, and we are obliged to explain things to the citizens of Serbia. In that, I can't tell the morning, but the first part of the session, when Mr. Djelic brought the whole budget here, it wasn't clear to me at first why he would have so many associates. He used to come with a lot less of them. Is it possible, Mr. Djelic, that you carry all 11 million in a bag, so you need a dozen people to follow you, seeing as you're here without a bag now? So, you hurt Article 194 of Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, and it cannot be forgotten just because a 15-minute break was made, which lasted an hour and a half. You were obliged to say, first of all, for the sake of the public, that you taught Mr. Djelic during the break - that he must behave in accordance with Article 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and inform the citizens of Serbia that these Djelic Europeans had to get out of this room, because this is neither a hair salon nor a bar, nor a Meridian Bank -- this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you violated the Rules of Procedure because you allowed Mr. Djelic to bring all those people into this parliament and you have to tell the citizens of Serbia. I'm saying this extremely well-intentioned. I see you haven't mastered the Rules of Procedure. We keep trying to draw your attention to some provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but until you learn, you have to listen to our warnings. No matter what your answer may be, I am telling you that I know for sure that I will not be satisfied with that answer, and therefore I ask that the National Assembly in the voting day be made known - whether in that part before the break the Rules of Procedure on your part have been injured, because you have allowed, contrary to Article 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a group of citizens sit in parliament, some people Djelic picked up somewhere on the street or I don't know who it's about. Please put that in voting day, so let's see if the National Assembly will confirm that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the National Assembly of late, when it comes to violations of the Rules of Procedure, and I mean the congregation majority, has begun to really take care. You remember July 7th that the assembly majority just voted - that you did not hurt the Rules of Procedure because you did not warn me when I said Zoran Djindjic was the mafia prime minister. They confirmed my opinion. I expect they'll also confirm today that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you've allowed Djelic's carryers to sit here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1333	The first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 11th, 24, 25th, 26th and 27th June 2008, the session of the Third Extra session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 30 June, 1, 2, 3rd and 4th July 2008 and the Second Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 7 July 2008. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. (Dragan Todorovic, from the site: quorum should be determined. ) I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. Cross-checking records. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... (The Verse of Radeta, from the place: The quorum is now determined. ) Please, we've established a quorum today at the beginning of work. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: it is not true.) It is true. On the proposal of the MPs of the SRS, please place your cards in the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 11, 24, 25, 26 and 27 June 2008. For 120, a abstentioned one, was not voted 11 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted this record. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 30 June, 1, 2, 3 and 4 July 2008. Nine out of 133 MPs voted for 124. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 30 June, 1, 2, 3 and 4 July 2008. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, held on 7 July 2008. I find that 124 votes were "for", i.e. the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were adopted on 7 July 2008. You wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure, please. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic answered, advocating the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1334	I apologize, Madam President, for standing next to the bench where the Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic sits, because I was right to ask you and report to the Rules of Procedure because I have to warn Bozidar Djelic of the second stage in his behaviour in the follow-up session. I don't know if you, distinguished colleagues, could have noticed that, but his degutantly estranged behavior exceeds the dignity of the National Assembly and he demonstrated it in the beginning of today's work. Given the fact that he came to the assembly hall with that scroll that had to leave the hall, by the way, Bozidar Djelic was late again because he made a farewell lunch at the restaurant for them and explained that the trip today is not possible, but what I want to point out and warn Bozidar Djelic is the fact that he came unprepared to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the agenda, which is the first in the amended government's proposal for the agenda, which is the famous Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Mr. Djelic, you have a corrected edition of the Agreement in front of you, and I must warn you, since you have demonstrated your new appearance in front of the press by reproving the issue of the Agreement in front of you and photographing yourself for tomorrow's release of your media, which is under your control, that this is the form in which we are discussing, and these are acts directed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you are the Deputy Prime Minister, and since I see that you are prepared as a stuck rifle to demonstrate this rebuke and show behind the pay phone, as you did in front of a crowd of journalists, then the Assembly will take a break and then the competent services will bring the same issue to all MPs. Otherwise, you won't be able to abuse your function. Now I'm surprised that you have that cheap 10 dinar pen, because that 11m-euro pen of yours, which has left little ink, and that's probably dried up in the meantime from the campaign to today when this point came up on the agenda, is probably in your Meridian Bank vault. You really need to behave properly, because back in the seven years we've had a variety of experiences with you: from jumping the bench, next to the prime minister who was then sitting next to you, through making cookies, through various acrobatics. Just to turn upside down, I really don't know what to expect from the vice president of the government who has that attitude. Therefore, all MPs have this issue of the Agreement, we are likely to start to discuss this item of the agenda, and you are to behave nicely and that, in accordance with the form that the Assembly respects and every MP, you have been performing since the beginning of the debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1335	Thank you. With the invitation of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008, which was called upon by the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade between the European Community, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement ("Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Gazel Bridge Rehabilitation"; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Road Rehabilitation - B2; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Funding Agreement ('Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement ('Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 10. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ('Addditional financing of the Rehabilitation and Disposal System Project') between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 11. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Project of Reform of Agriculture in Transition") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 12. Proposal for a law confirming a grant agreement from the Global Environmental Protection Fund (“Transition Reform Project”) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund; 13. Proposal for a law confirming the Funding Agreement (Project Regional Development of Bora) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development; 14. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project Regional Development of Bora) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 15. Proposal for a law confirming a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres/A. I remind you, Article 106 is Section 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that "the National Assembly is meeting in an extraordinary session at the request of at least one third of the MPs or at the request of the Government, with a predetermined agenda", so that no changes in the agenda can be proposed in relation to the agenda set up for the extraordinary session by the authorising officer. National MP Nada Kolundzija, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 140(2) and Article 149a of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint Single Search be carried out on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, and - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Transition Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, on the 2nd and 3rd agenda, as well as a common Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on the Protection of the Republic of Serbia - the Treaty on the Protection of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia - the Treaty on the Crossing of the Treaty on the Crossing of the Republic of Serbia - the Republic of Serbia and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the European Union (the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) on the Treaty on the European Union, on the Protection of the Treaty on the European Union, on the Protection of the European Union and the Treaty on the Protection of the Treaty on the European Union, on the Protection of the European Union, on the European Union, on the Protection of the European Union and the Treaty on the European Union of the European Union, on the European Union for the European Union, and the European Union, and the European Union for the European Union, and the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union, and the European Union for the European Union for the. Does the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I beg the Members of the People's Parliament... You want a word? The word is Mr. Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1336	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that the atmosphere and efficiency of parliament depend on the willingness of the government and the opposition to take responsibility for the functioning of the assembly in their own way. But I think that you, Mrs. Kolundjia, as president of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group, were obliged to explain to us why you suggest uniting so many points of the agenda. We're ready to vote for something like that, because this country is paying interest on assets that can't pull and use. It is a sentence needed by the congregation to channel the animosities that exist in some way. The atmosphere in which we work today, as well as the atmosphere in which this congregation flows, first of all, is the responsibility of the government. This is not any session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, if that is the way it can be talked about the meetings of the Republic's parliament at all. The historic agreement is ahead of us, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. After that, the Energy Partnership Agreement with Russia is very important. It is the first resolution of the Serbian Parliament after the constitution of Kosovo and the arrival of the EU Mission to Kosovo. Very important agenda points, and parliament has been in chaos since the first second this session began. So, a little more understanding and taking over the commitment that follows the people in power. I think it was necessary to explain the unification of these agenda points, primarily because of us who are willing to vote for such a thing. Not because, through partnership with you, we practically gave our 13 votes to compensate for the deficit that exists in the ruling coalition, but because we think it's pointless to pay interest on the funds we've been allocated and which we can't use. Another reason to speed up the debate on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is what was important and what we need for citizens, especially the opposition, without which such a decision cannot be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1337	Thank you. The word is Mr Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Article 104 that the dignity of this assembly has been violated. Mr Jovanovic, it is your legitimate right to act in accordance with your political interests and that, in accordance with these interests, your parliamentary group also works. Do not convince us here, or the citizens of Serbia, that you are doing this because of the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because due to the lack of part of the funds, we will pay interest, etc. You have already entered the coalition with the DS and this shows a number of examples in Serbia. It's nothing weird. Both DS and SPS, and I expect you to come out here with a flower in your hair one day and show how tight that coalition is. This looks to me like, I have to tell you, that love game between a mantis and her partner. I don't want to say who's a mantis and who's a mantis. I think someone's going to come out of this politically dead. Whosoever, slowly, we shall see, we shall see it in the next election. What's the situation? What's good, we won't wait long. Very soon, we will be in a position to clear up the political scene in Serbia, really get together and start working seriously in the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1339	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1340	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reported to you by the law of replication. Of course, we all have our own policies and that at no time did we think that we are the ones who have the exclusive right to perform on behalf of Serbian citizens and that only we know the way in which the interests of Serbian citizens are protected. On the matter of uniting the agenda points, I think it was important that representatives of the ruling coalition say why they ask us to do so, as they do of the Serbian Parliament, because I am sure that the people who voted for LDP, just as I am sure that the people who voted for the SRS, want those funds that we have been granted and on whom we are already paying interest, means we are already at a minus, which will be used, and resulting from the confirmation of the Loan Agreement for additional financing of traffic reconstruction projects. Should we discuss the state of traffic infrastructure? Then, the draft law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank - the rehabilitation of the "Gazela" bridge; and the bill to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank - rehabilitation of roads and bridges, etc. Without the willingness and understanding of the LDP, this session would take longer than, say, the reconstruction of the Gazal Bridge. That's why we're voting for something like that. Each party attaches its political destiny, first and foremost, to the results of its policy. It is true that at the municipal level we are working with the DS, it is true that in this co-operation DS has found room for partnership with the SPS, which the LDP has agreed to, just as it is true that in certain local self-governments you are working with the Democrats. Like, it's in the Shadow, it's in the Market. It is a political circumstance that stems from vague political relations, which are the result of the political situations that we have found ourselves in after a long period of confusion policy. It is precisely because of our willingness to support any idea that is in line with the interests of the Serbian citizens we recognize, that I think we will come to a better quality relationship after some future elections, and we would like to see them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1341	Mrs. Radeta answered her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of getting in touch with Mr Jovanovic, but when it comes to the proposal to combine 10 points of the agenda into a united debate in a total of five hours for all MP groups, we have just heard what is the reason why Mrs Kolundzhija has suggested that 10 points join in a united debate. As much as it seems, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that these are similar topics, these are contracts, ratification of the contract, of the funds already received, of the funds already being spent or not being spent, of the funds where we already pay interest on this or under those conditions, that is exactly what they want here to default, and that in that short time we are not even able to count, when it comes to the agenda we will not be able to name any agreement that is ratified, so that we can explain to the citizens what their national representatives are talking about today, tomorrow or these days here. That is why it is necessary, Mrs. Kolundzhija, that, in accordance with your Rules of Procedure, not only do you act ossion because you have 126 MPs who will press the green key to unite this debate, but to explain to us and the citizens of Serbia, perhaps you can convince us that it is okay, you will say economically, etc., but we want to know what your motive is, what are the reasons that you are uniting 10 points of the agenda. It is simply not possible physically, and you in this harshest way are making it impossible for MPs to do their job. We want to discuss every government proposal, whether we're going to use all the time available or not, it's a matter of every parliamentary group. We Serbian radicals, of course, as always, will. You have no rights and no one has rights, no rights or assembly majority, even if you are more than 126, you have no right to deny to the MPs that, first of all, in front of the public of Serbia, and also to colleagues who will vote or will not vote for such a agenda, to deny us the right to speak about each proposal what we think we should say. If you put 10 dots together, I don't know if you're aware of it, I fully deliberately and consciously potential Serbian citizens to hear what you're doing here -- ten points of the agenda you're proposing to join into one item of the agenda. Then the government had to propose it and say, point three is a ratification of the agreement, so that it could list the agreements, and then here we criticise the government. No, you're blindly listening to the government. Again, unfortunately, the majority of toys in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we know and there will be time to talk about it, that again the government, and through it and the majority of the assembly, is actually a toy in the hands of dictator Boris Broz. We're going round and round. So we insist that Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija come out and explain to the MPs who are the reasons, this is no whim, Mrs. Kolundjia, this is your business obligation, tell you what led you to suggest something that is really far from common sense, and from the Rules of Procedure that I do not speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1343	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was first advertised by Mr. Ilic, and then Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1344	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say hello to you, since today is my first session and I see that it's something much worse, worse than I expected. You see for yourself the climate, the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, of course, the chairman, has a lot of responsibility and it has to be fixed. However, I am irritated by this last point that has been proposed - to unite the debate. You know well that I have spoken to the public several times that for a year and a half, credit ratification is expected, interest payments are paid, and that Mr. Dulic did not want to accept to put on the agenda and that projects, such as Kokin Brod, Nova Varoš, are waiting for a year and a half, to ensure that the funds are provided, that "Gazala" waits for two years, that a series of other projects are waiting, and that it was not deliberately allowed to work during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It was some sort of rematchism, and she deliberately refused to allow congregation procedures to be initiated. Travelers have been out of work for years. It's been waiting for these projects. A hundred bridges, reconstruction and construction of new, dozens of tunnels, all waiting for it, and now something's rushing, hurrying to bring it all together, to make one pumpkin and say, come on, here you are doing it, etc. That's why I'm not for this kind of work, and I'd like someone to be responsible for what Serbia has been paying loans and interest payments for a year and a half, and it hasn't worked. Is it someone's responsibility or not? So these days, gentlemen, we're playing. I hear there was some kind of infrastructure council made yesterday. Take care of one thing, Mr. President, he's got nothing to do, so he's the president of the council. The government has made advice, and Boris Tadic is president. And the humiliation for our prime minister, whom you have chosen here, who is neither vice president nor just a member of the council, and Dinkic, of course, is vice president of the council. Now we're wondering if the president of the state, who doesn't even know where his country is, or where his borders are, has a million unresolved problems, now that he has to solve the infrastructure of the state. Where does he say he does it and does it? So that's one hollow story. One more thing, that advice makes a decision to annul the concession. The council annuls the concession, and Dinkic thus says. We have given the green light here in parliament for concession, the government has repeatedly unanimously, and Dinkic has led an action to produce project documentation and select a financial adviser from America who will lead and make a concession contract. The council can suggest something, advise someone, I don't only know who to advise, maybe Mrkonjic, but Mrkonjic says he doesn't need a counselor. So let them work out what they want and how, but this isn't going to work out so well. That's why I ask you, Mrs. Kolundjia, to let this go, we're not going to crack it, we know that Serbia has to build, to work, we know that companies can't wait for these funds to be launched in order for many projects to be done, but also for Serbian citizens to know that someone has to do this and to answer. So I would suggest to this congregation that we call on the responsibility of the people who did not allow these projects to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1345	Mrs. Kolundzija answered the words, and then Mrs. Tabakovic advertised the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Nado, Mr Aligrudic called before, but he advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1346	In Article 140. Rules of Procedure, Article 2, writes - The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or are related to each other, with the decision on each proposal being made separately. So we still have to respect the Rules of Procedure. I remember when the Democratic Party of Serbia participated in the ruling majority, we had numerous cases of the merger of the bill. I must admit, at that time, we may not have in any case respected this provision of Article 140 until the end. Rules of Procedure. I can't argue that the time behind us was such that we had just watched that this provision was strictly respected, but the people who participated in the preparatory meetings with me, when I was head of the parliamentary group, knew that I had always advocated that these mergers were as logical as possible, that to a lesser extent the application of Article 140 was at stake. For some time we couldn't avoid it, I admit, it's something that remains behind us, but I would pray, indeed, as the opposition's representative in this case, as I then asked my colleagues from the ruling coalition when we talked about it, that in such cases, the maximum respect of Article 140(2) was respected. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the very least, what we should hear here is an explanation of what makes these proposals conditional on each other and in which these solutions are interrelated. If what ratifications of international agreements are linked, if it is a fact of ratification of the international agreement itself, it is simply not enough. This is not enough to link between these points of the agenda, because in this case we have a ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, ratification of the transitional agreement, ratification of the gas agreement, etc., so the question would be why are all these points not combined if the ratification of the element that connects those points is the element? Obviously not. If what separates them from the fact that the SAA, the trade agreement and the oil agreement are extremely important agreements, and they have to be considered separately in the principled search, does this imply that these other points are irrelevant enough that they do not have to be specifically discussed? If it's something else, not just ratification itself, what these dots connect, then you need to see what it is. If these are loans or loans from a contract created between Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, on the one hand, or the Investment Fund, on the other hand, or, on the other hand, by the Global Environment Fund, the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, if that is the case, it does not combine those points, it separates them. These are different institutions from which we have withdrawn certain credit or loans and it would be worth it, given the purpose of these funds and the different nature of these investments, or these funds, simply to discuss some of these points separately. Which doesn't mean some of them can't connect. But if there's any reason for more of these dots to come together the way it's proposed, it's really good to hear what are the two elements, i.e. Are they contained in each of these points, what is their condition, and what is in the solutions to these proposals that binds them together? We need to hear some rational explanation that would allow these points to be merged. That's what we're looking for here. Indeed, when I see a agenda like this, I would agree with my predecessor, one cannot help but think that there is really something left behind, which has been a huge investment and, thanks to one's cheif, has been stopped, which is why Serbia has been denied for the realization of a very important and important project. It's also a question, but not perhaps for now, how much for some debates in the future, when it comes to that or similar projects here discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1347	Thank you. Mrs. Kolundjia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1348	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reasons for the unifying of the debate are the same as those that were and when we had these points of the agenda before the disbanding of the National Assembly and the new elections, when we were also uniting these points, given the very reasons that are stated here. The fact is that these international arrangements made by the first government of Vojislav Kostunica have long waited for ratification in this parliament, when the pressure of not only the government, but also the parliamentary groups, including the citizens of Serbia, was high on the assembly. People expressed justifiable dissatisfaction as to why these agenda points were not already completed. At the same time, as it is about ratifications which are not subject to the amendment, therefore, there is no need to extend the time or to set aside the agenda points that time to apply the amendments, we felt that these were all logical reasons why, as in February, when these points were on the agenda and when the parliamentary majority, which they now consider not to be united, felt that these points should be united. So, even then, starting with Serbia's interest, we have come from the need for these international financial arrangements to be implemented as soon as possible and there is no need to allow for a change of reaction to this, we have proposed a unification of the debate, really taking into account that it has been in these situations and earlier practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1349	Mrs. Tabakovic, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1350	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I am giving information to the President of the Assembly that I am reporting for a member of the 140th joint debate, and in fact, it is my aim to introduce the citizens to what is the essence of this problem, and perhaps to push out those who are silent about the reasons for the united debate of these laws. Dear citizens of Serbia, you know that during the election campaign the set of these ratifications, loans and funding of a donation was artificially used for the first time in front of the Serbian Parliament's MPs for consideration on 5 March 2008. By then and in the election campaign, as an MP for the SRS, I presented the fact that it was about ratifications, about agreements that expired. It's an object, Mrs. Kolundjia, that's what your colleagues and those who exercise power had to tell you. It's not the only problem of a united debate. All of these agreements, except for one, were signed in July 2007, but in autumn, Mr Tadic was more likely to hold presidential elections than to submit to the Assembly for ratification of agreements on clinical centres, on rehabilitation of roads, on guarantees in the usual term, two months to three. Dear citizens of Serbia, we are facing the problem of asking as a parliamentary group today to remove these points of the agenda, Prime Minister, because you did not provide us with a document that has any importance to our debate, which is that lenders, or the World Bank, or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, provide you with a document extending the importance of the proposed agreements you have signed. Respected citizens of Serbia, if we don't get the paper documenting the response received on the Committee that these contracts have extended the importance of entry into force in December 2008, what are we talking about? A worthless document that doesn't have a legal opportunity to discuss it? It is no longer our inner story but the subject and the synonym of those manipulations and abuses in the elections -- they do not allow Radicals to rebuild the roads, not that the opposition can discuss it. You did not put on the agenda when it was time, and today when we want to talk about the terms of these loans and when you limit our right to make remarks in terms of short time, you are presenting a false fact, such as Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, that interest is paid. They didn't tell you well, Mr. Jovanovic. Loans that are not effective, which are not ratified, which is a condition for entry into force, do not have that weight of paying interest. From the moment they become effective, we will have that cost, as we have for the approved and undrawn funds. In the only final account since 2006, we have the cost of paying interest. My dear gentlemen, ten agreements and a ratification of loans and funding really deserve a more serious debate for a long time. But this people, these citizens, deserve a more serious government, which will bring us a document that says: we will get these loans on condition that by the end of 2008, we can even ratify them in this building. Everything else is about your indifference and even the possibility of us not discussing this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1351	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta answered her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1352	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I asked Mrs Colundge to explain to us why she suggested that 10 points of the agenda be united. Of course, I did not expect Mrs. Kolundzija from this place to address the other parliamentary group and to object why something did not happen in that previous assembly and in that previous government. We are not interested in your mutual relations, but we are interested in what is the authority of the Serbian Parliament. The real truth is, of course, all what counterpart Jorvanka Tabakovic said, but certainly you wanted to hide with this merger the fact that all the funds that will go through Serbia's budget, through the National Investment Plan, will actually be managed by yellow dictator Boris Broz and his right-hand man Mladjan Dinkic. We are to you, Mr. Cvetkovic, and in the day when the government was elected that you are only formally Prime Minister, that you will not have any authority, you serve only Boris Broz to be the signator of an act there, and he is the one who will manage every dinar in the Republic of Serbia. You're the only one who's sneezing as much as you want, I understand and that one number of you is uncomfortable about it, but here you've heard, and the public of Serbia knows that some Infrastructure Council has been formed and that, imagine, the president of that council, Boris Tadic, and his deputy, Mladjan Dinkic. Article 112 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia precisely, in eight points, states the authority of the President of the Republic of Serbia and is nowhere intended for Boris Broz, or for the President of the Republic to be at the head of a government body called the Council for Infrastructure or for what to call it. This has been invisible ever since Serbia exists and since Serbia's constitutional system exists. We know that Boris Broz has been in office since the first day since he took office with the violation of the Constitution, but that he goes so far as to even consider the existence of the Constitution. So that man does what he wants. Now imagine, we remember all Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic when he restored the country after NATO aggression at the time of the best government in the Republic of Serbia in the recent history, it is the government of Mirko Marjanovic in which Serbian radicals participated. Such a builder, such as Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, is now in a position for ignorant Boris Tadic to tell him what he can do, what he can't do, how much money he will give him, how much money he won't give him. (President: Time. ) Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I end up, I thought it would be pleasant to remind you of the best government in the newer history of the Republic of Serbia. It is the government of Mirko Marjanovic and Serbian radicals. Yes, Mr. Vojislav Seselj was the vice-president of the government at the time, both in charge of the economy and finance. Be assured, you know that this was the best time, regardless of NATO aggression, regardless of what your friends, who you hug and kiss, were doing to Serbia at the time, and that this is also the fact, that is, the book of Carla del Ponte, which said that Zoran Djindjic asked her to lead Vojislav Seselj out of Serbia and to return him to Serbia. So you're just challenging, instead of covering your ears and keeping quiet when we talk about that time when we're talking about this government, you're just challenging me to remind you of the fact that you're an act and a child, and the continuation of the policy of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1353	Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1354	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I didn't want to do this breach of the Rules of Procedure to advertise, but the same story is repeated for the hundredth time, and you never react. We're constantly listening to the late Prime Minister get laid from this pay phone. That's morbid. It's not civilized, it's anti-Christian. You are the President of Parliament, you have under the Rules of Procedure to take measures against MPs who violate the dignity of this Parliament, who are negatively, extremely ugly and anti-Christianally expressing themselves to individual people, regardless of the politicality of these people. Now, if you'll let me go back to what I wanted to advertise. Mrs Kolundzija, as an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia within the Liberal-Democratic Party parliamentary club, we also consider it rational to give us one more detailed notice and an explanation of the necessity of joining agenda points. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1355	Gentlemen, please sit down and allow the speaker to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1356	Why? It is precisely out of the necessary respect for our parliamentary group, which, regardless of what belongs to the opposition, believes that Serbia is the only road to European integration, which we are willing to provide quorum, because this is Serbia's dried bread. Some of your deputies are on the beaches, you have no quorum. So one measure of correctness must be shown and one measure of respect that is clearly missing here. One more thing. Mr. Djelic, I'm saying this very well-meaningly. When we talk about European integration, there is no merit for individuals, special merits for individuals. It has the responsibilities of individuals why Europe has moved away from Serbia or rather Serbia from Europe on that path, which is the responsibility of governments that preceded this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1357	Gentlemen, please allow Mr Batić to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1358	So, they're not worth the individual credit for this or that. Serbia started European integration during the government of Zoran Djindjic. It tragically stopped on the road during the two previous governments, including individual ministers, and individual vice-presidents who are also in this government today. I would ask you, Mrs. Kolundjia, once again to understand the need to respect those who, regardless of what opposition they are, want Serbia to continue on the only way it can go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1359	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Kolundzija, if you followed closely the video of the trial from the Hague case and the speech of Professor Vojislav Seselj, you saw that he gave a really accurate finding, as always, that there are various kinds of nonsense. When he was making a town of stupidity, that he could be nice, but that out of some people he could really pop out of his skin, an example of that is your logic, and therefore, Madam President, I'm advertising Article 140 of Section 2. I'm trying to find some logical connection in what Mrs. Kolundjia said. So you're wrong, Mr. Krasic, it's hard to find that logical link, but let's try it all together and see what the basis was. Bozidar Djelic came to the assembly the other day, told the assembly's president that such a number of laws must be adopted, that agreements should be ratified, that the assembly must work with that dynamic. In his exposé, there in some position, Mr. Cvetkovic said the state was in trouble because the Assembly was not working full capacity and now tell me what a logical relationship it is. If it's a lender, Mrs. Kolundjia, let's find her somehow, but do you have time and time to last some logical relationship. And that's what Mrs Tabakovic had been talking about since the amendment and addition of the Ministry Act. I listened carefully and she warned you and said - don't let certain ratifications of various loans happen, and these are different, which are logically linked, if we're going to be in Article 140(2). The Rules of Procedure, mostly by the lender, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The point is that the deadline has passed, Mrs. Kolundzija, and who will be responsible now, you or Bozidar Djelic? When you will come before the MPs of the National Assembly with proof that the deadline for their ratification is extended, because we cannot move so easily over what is one of the largest experts in the area of finance, Mrs. Master of Yorkanka Tabakovic, she is also the chairman of the Committee on Finance of the Serbian Parliament. If you're willing to get into something that's illegal, after all, I'm sorry, we're not going to do it. Which is why we should discuss something that you do not have proof of from those who loaned you, that is, you have entered into a debt arrangement for Serbia. And finally, Mrs. Kolundjia, if that hadn't happened, that deadline had not expired, what was the logical link between the clinical center, the projects in the area of agriculture and the regional development of Bora. If you can find that logical link, and you've deceived the new MPs and the public when you said you'd done it in earlier synergy. We rebelled against it, and Mr. Aligrudic said earlier that there were such cases, even if they were doing it clumsyly. When it came to the railroad project, then the whole package was only about the railroad. If there was a project for some infrastructure area in Serbia, not what Tadic doesn't know, we did. But, please, to combine 10 points of the agenda, you have no proof that the deadline for ratification is extended, do you hear that, Mr. Djelic, you are probably familiar and you know more than Mrs. Kolundzija, you and Mr. Cvetkovic, then tell it nicely to the MPs. Mrs. Kolundjia, what I will never allow, not only as vice president of the National Assembly, but as a folk MP who sees from this worse place how you behave, is that you insult the dignity and other MPs. Mrs. Radeta has expressed her actual state of mind. When she came back to the scene, you told her that she was, as you say, a disgrace and a disgrace to the human race. You are a disgrace and a disgrace, and that is why the SRS, in a city where there has been a congress of the unification of the Serbian Chetnik Movement and the People's Radical Party, a city where I was born and raised, will hold a major promotion on August 25th of this year, where people from the field of international law and our legal experts, one of the best books by Professor Vojislav Seselj, who will not be incarcerated for long, will not be imprisoned, the books'''The Murder of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic'.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1361	I would ask the MPs to use decent terms and to take care of the dignity of this high house. Mr Vladimir Milentijevic, advertises the Rules of Procedure, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1362	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 194. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 2, which reads as follows: "The Government determines the members of the Government who represent it on a particular issue which is on the agenda of the National Assembly session, i.e. at the session of its committee." In fact, yesterday at 14.00 hours, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija was scheduled to discuss a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. All members of the opposition and Mrs Stojanka Petkovic, representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, came to the meeting, there was a quorum, but that committee was not attended by a proposing representative i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia. All the members of the Committee agreed to postpone the session, in consultation with Minister for Kosovo and Metohija, and it was postponed for the day at 16.15 minutes. Only four members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee came to the meeting today, so today there was no debate on the subject. And if there was a quorum, I would ask the Prime Minister, given that the first point of the fourth or last one has been postponed, I still don't know which one, whether we're going to be in a position to hear from the Prime Minister whether there are consultations with all the parliamentary groups when it comes to the motion for this resolution, or whether we're going to be sitting down and discussing only in accordance with this proposed resolution. I have the impression that as soon as it is removed from the first item of the agenda, that some consultations are already being held on the subject, so it would be good, that it would not happen again if this Committee on Kosovo and Metohija were not held, that the Prime Minister would tell us whether the motion for a resolution remains unchanged or, in the meantime, it would change something. Given the position's attitude, if yesterday and today hadn't given a quorum, and it's a very important topic, it's a resolution on the continuity of state policy, it would be good to know whether in this way and in this way to lead the continuity of state policy in relation to KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1363	Mr. Shormaz is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1364	Madam Chairman, I would like to ask you, given your jurisdiction under article 27. The Rules of Procedure, and based on what we heard from Mr Batic at the pay phone, he obviously has some knowledge that LDP is giving a quorum while some DS MPs are at sea, given past experiences, i.e. on the beach, to find out what it's about, to take their cards and put them in the safe, given the experiences we've had with Thessaloniki and Bodrum, to protect ourselves, so there won't be another ruse of this parliament. That's what I wanted to suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1365	Mr. Krasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1366	I refer to those members of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the possibility of bringing the debate together according to the points of the agenda. This is not the first time the DS has proposed a merger of debates over agenda points that are incompatible with each other. But what binds us, and we have to say, in order for the public to know what it is, that binding tissue that is common to these points of the agenda, whose debate should be united, is, above all, money, money and the possibility to touch it again for 11 million euros through some services, some opportunities or bookkeeper of what is on vacation. That is why it is necessary for the debate on each item of the agenda to last five hours, to hear all arguments, so that it can be heard whether or not exactly what Mr Jovanovic said is paying interest on the promise, because if the loan is not taken and the interest is paid, then it is a promise. I think that following this debate on this proposal to merge the debate on ten points of the agenda, the National Assembly has an obligation to reject this proposal and to conduct an individual debate on all proposals of the law, so that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia finally know what the right background is. Obviously, the binding tissue is something called the euro, because since the DS came to power in the Republic of Serbia, logic has been promoted -- it can do anything, just give money from abroad. Under what conditions, how much is it going to cost, if the state can borrow so much, it doesn't matter. Citizens are being installed the idea of it: now is an opportunity, grab, now we're going to take advantage of it, etc. I think that after today's debate there is a obligation of the National Assembly to discuss all these bill proposals individually and I think that citizens rightly expect it from us, and to see who votes to join these agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1367	I ask the Members, in accordance with the proposal to merge the proposed points, to declare, or to press the corresponding key on the MP's unit. 129 MPs came forward for the merger, not five, a total of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1368	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to article 59. I quote my Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and my Rules of Procedure - the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija discusses all issues related to this province, primarily taking into account the Serbian national and state interests of our country, proposes to the National Assembly the appropriate decision, declarations, resolutions and monitors their implementation or implementation by the relevant authorities or institutions. The board has 15 members. Yesterday, we held a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Unfortunately, there were no representatives of the government, so at the request of most members of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, we postponed this session for today at 16.15 p.m. All members of this committee have been informed of this orderly. However, I fear that there is an obstruction by MPs from the ruling parties, because yesterday there was only one MP from the ruling parties, and not one today. There wasn't even a representative of the government yesterday. If you gentlemen think you're going to side with the KIM Committee and do what you want, I can tell you that you're wrong. No obstruction, as chairman of this committee, I will not allow it. If there is no quorum, I will find a way to hold meetings at least as debate sessions, but through press conferences and other contacts with the public, I will inform the public about what the ruling parties think about the KIM problem. Just delaying and moving the point from the first place, which talks about the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, speaks enough about what you think of Kosovo and Metohija. We will not let you do this, because the KIM Committee is slightly older than the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because we are representatives of the highest representative home in this country, and you, gentlemen of the Ministers, are only officials. Therefore, I will not allow Kosovo and Metohija to be your front, to hand over Kosovo and Metohija, but we will be your great and fierce rivals, when you do not want to be partners in the business of solving the problem of the Serb population from Kosovo and Metohija. So you know that the Committee will meet and will be in a permanent session, and that most of the sessions will be held on the ground, in Kosovo and Metohija, where we should be. I want people from Kosovo and Metohija to see that the highest representative home of the Serbian Parliament is always with them and will always be with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1369	Thank you. Mr Batic answered for the word, and then Mr Kragovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1370	Since I'm mentioned, apparently some people didn't understand me very well about previous exposure. Our commitment is quite clear: Europe has no alternative for us. We don't care who makes up the parliamentary majority - we will vote for such a thing, primarily LDP MPs, and me as MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and Zarko Korac as an SDU MP, because we have been saying this for years. That attitude is completely and crystal clear. We criticised the prime minister's exposés because the first point in the exhibition is the commitment to Serbia's European future -- so Serbia does not have an Asian or African future. It's elemental logic. As we say, our position on the resolution on Kosovo, even within the parliamentary group, will be different because it is democracy, it is pluralism of opinion. As our parliamentary group's position on the gas deal, which is trying to honor Russia with a few billion euros, will be different. We are not interested in the opinion of the parliamentary majority at all, but in what is in the interests of Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1371	He has the word Mr. Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call for a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, and I would like to highlight the problems that are currently happening in KIM space. In fact, you all know that the May 11th elections were organized in KIM space. However, there is an obstruction in the work precisely from those people you appointed as co-ordinators at KIM - they do not want to co-operate, they do not want to provide logistics to the newly elected legal authorities in KIM, but they are obstructing by not allowing these local self-governments to live in the area of KIM. To illustrate this, I will read you a few letters and correspondence that was between individuals, both between newly formed municipalities and between the Ministry of KIM, coordinators, etc. I hope you won't take what I read at the time of my discussion and debate. "The head of the Kosovo Management District. Subject: Notice of intentions to protest blocking Kosovo County's work. Mr. Chief of Kosovo County, on your approval of the co-ordinator's procedure not to fulfil the Kosovo and Metohija ministry's mandate of 17. Six. In 2008, which you signed 18. Six. In 2008, we'd like to inform you that we're going to be on Day 16. Seven. In 2008, to block the functioning of the administrative district, and that we will not carry out any conconsequences for the potential consequences of this kind of protest. This is because you institutionally influence that such an act of approval of the co-ordinator's self-authorization creates anarchy in the district area, and even helps local self-government not function for your own personal reasons. No, sir, this is not the way you do your private business, nor is the government of the county your front so you can behave like that. Mr. District Chief, take care of the consequences that may arise because of your direct and direct contribution to the events surrounding the functioning of local self-government. The submiter of the Serbian Radical Party's list for Uroševac Nenad Petkovic. "Such letters have been sent by all other representatives of local municipalities in Kosovo, both from Peća, Lipljana, Kosovo Polje, Obilić, etc. I will now read to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a letter from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija sent to all Kosovo and Metohija coordinators: "Respected, as you know, the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija were organised on 11 May 2008. The elections were organised and implemented in 26 of the 29 municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. They were not implemented for the municipalities of Kačanik, Glogovac and Štimlje, where municipalities will be retained by municipal coordinators. In Prizren municipality, elections were held, but less than 50 per cent of the councils elected in the Assembly of the municipality were proposed. For this reason, it is necessary to retain the municipal coordinator for this municipality as well. Constitutive sessions were held in other municipalities and new municipal bodies were elected -- Parliament Speaker, deputy president and secretary of parliament. In certain municipalities, both the president and the deputy president of the municipality were elected, as well as the municipal council. In order to ensure the conditions for the regular work of newly elected municipalities, depositing the signatures of authorised persons, overruled decisions and other documents and others, we invite you to immediately contact the presidents of the Assembly or other authorised persons in municipalities whose co-ordinator for the conduct of the local elections, for the purpose of handing over stamps, premises, documentation, inventory and all other materials you have available. We note that we have submitted an initiative from the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government to launch an appropriate procedure for the resolution of municipal coordinators in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Assistant Minister and Chairman of the Vuko Antonijevic Coordination Centre. "To this letter, which is logically the order of things to be directed to the coordinators, there is also a response to these same coordinators. (President: Time. ) to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. They say, "Respected for the memo you sent us without a number and date, you invite us coordinators to immediately contact the presidents of the congregations and other authorised persons in municipalities where local elections were held on 11 May 2008, in which constitutional sessions were held and new municipal authorities elected, we inform you next. "
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1373	Mr. Kragovic, it's been six minutes, you've spoken for five minutes. It's okay, but bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1374	"We, the signed coordinators below, agree and support your initiative to ensure legal working conditions in KIM municipalities. In this regard, we stress that we are in the position of municipal coordinators appointed by a decision, a solution by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the Ministry of KIM, and we will act accordingly now and not respect the decision, such a decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not make, but by one ministry." I hope you won't consider what I read at the time of the debate. So they don't respect the KIM Ministry, they only respect the government's decision. What did you do? Not that you have one coordinator, but you have two candidates for one local self-government in the municipalities, and they don't want to cooperate. They took part in the election, they were elected councillors, they lost the election, and now they want to obstruct. It would make us laugh at all the people who live down there and the normal international community, because we can't implement our decisions. That is why I demand, and here they have signed, I must point out the same, the representative of Pristina co-ordinator Slavisa Nikolic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1375	Mrs. Radeta has a word. He was nine minutes away, Mrs. Radeta has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1376	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting on the basis of Article 225. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because as a People's MP, I have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. Namely, the Serbian Radical Party has just received information that something incredible is happening in the Belgrade District Court. The head of the district court received a proposal from the SRS, DSS and NS Group in the Belgrade City Assembly to review a decision on a session they called constitutional, and Mr. Todorovic was talking today about a session that was illegal, where there was no assembly majority. You also know that something similar happened in the municipality of Vozdovac. Three lawsuits came from the same District Court in Belgrade, and according to our information, the president of the court has put together a bigger one today. It's not about any existing council in the District Court, because lawyers know that there are bigger ones who have their numbers, so they mark solutions, or decisions. None of the existing council has accepted to make these decisions, and then Mr. Okic put together someone newer than three judges. At this point, I will not speak the names of these judges, but tomorrow, given what Mr. Todorovic has promised and, if it turns out, and 99% of us are sure that this is true, because our sources are always reliable and accurate, when we have in our hands proof that this is all true, then you will definitely have the end of this Parliament's work. As long as we don't exorcise that injustice, we won't give up, because it's unacceptable to do what's been done today. We assumed there'd be some sort of hooking in that county court, we couldn't expect you to just stick to the law and do something in accordance with the law. So, at this point, the oldest in that newly concluded council, the woman judge, whose name I won't say, took home to review her verdict, was scheduled for tomorrow morning, the decision is known, but someone has to review what this judge, who is otherwise in front of retirement, might have already been offered a proposal for her retirement settlement, whether she's missing a month or already met the conditions for retirement. Today is the most severe violation of both the Constitution and the law, and I would like to see this report by the Rules of Procedure to be taken seriously by those who participate in this raving, thieving, crime. We have no intention, we know that this is not allowed under the law, that we are in any way affecting the work of the judicial authorities, but we insist that the judicial authorities comply with the law, work by law, make sure that they are all the same before the law and that the law is the same for all. If we have confirmation in the morning that this is not the case, then be prepared, since it is obvious that you will not start the first item of the agenda today, that you will not start it, even if you have kept the congregation majority for four years, we are so able to keep you in the Rules of Procedure until we do what is right and what is in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1377	Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1378	Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue. You are not interested in this, as you are not interested in the Kosovos and Metohijas, because if you were interested, you would at least listen to the problems that lie down. I will read again the letter sent to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija by the county co-ordinators and the heads of the district: In this regard, let us stress that the municipal coordinators were appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not by the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, and that we will also act now and respect any decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the above. In the signing of Pristina co-ordinator Slavisa Nikolic, co-ordinator for Kosovo Polje, Dejan Nedeljković and Petar Savivić, municipal co-ordinator for Lipjan Nikola Zivkovic, municipality co-ordinator for Poduje Darko Jokarević, municipality co-ordinator for Urosevic Slavko Janijevic, municipal coordinator for Strpce Slavko Jakovljević and authorised face for Obilić Goran Dančetović, and head of the Kosovo Management Board Goran Vasic. All these people don't respect the constitutionality and legality of this country. All of them should be clear that there were elections, that constitutional sessions were held and that their mandate had ceased. They do not need any opinion from the government of the Republic of Serbia, to tell them that the elections stopped the work of those who were before, that a new municipal leadership was chosen. We have referred and asked for advice and help to provide us, you do not want to react and you do not want to help to bring these local self-governments to life in Kosovo and Metohija. It is a classic lack of interest in the fate of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and it is a disgrace to the government of the Republic of Serbia. It must also order it to write to all its co-ordinators, all of the district's chiefs that it has appointed to respect the will of the people, to respect what happened on 11 May, both in Kosovo Mitrovica, both in Gjilan, Strpce, and in other parts of the Republic of Serbia. If the meetings of the SO have been established where the mandates of the committee have been verified, where the President of the Assembly, the Vice-President, the Secretary of the Assembly, were elected at meetings at which the president of the municipality was elected, what is the obligation of the co-ordinator of the municipality, rather than to come forward and hand over the seal and documentation to the newly elected president of the SO. He gets an interpretation of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, he returns it and calls on the government of the Republic of Serbia, asks the government to inform him that his mandate has ceased, and his mandate has ceased by law the moment the assembly was established in the KIM territory. This is not the case with one municipality, but with most municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. They're laughing down at us, so we can't just organize ourselves. We couldn't wait to finally have legal representatives of the government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Those who stand behind 100,000 citizens, not to be representatives of the government's appointed authorities, who self-proclaim themselves to some alleged leaders in Kosovo and Metohija. These are the presidents of municipalities and congregations chosen by the people in Kosovo and Metohija. Once again, I appeal to all, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to call on the minds of these rude co-ordinators, who do not wish to hand over duty to newly elected presidents of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1379	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Miss Jovanovic. I'd like to inform you that PUPS has formed its own Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1380	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Articles 27 and 31. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kragovic spoke about the rude DS co-ordinators. Not only are they not brought up, Mr Kragovic, but they don't care about the fate of Kosovo and Metohija at all, that's why they behave. The authorities, the kidnappers, all the privileges they can get are the only motive for their behavior, not respect for the electoral will of the citizens there. Mrs. Radeta, I see you're trying from the bench to influence Mrs. Kolundji's behaviour, and that's exactly why I answered. So, Mrs. Kolundjia, I'm really warning you, otherwise I'm going to ask the President of the National Assembly to give you a reminder, one and the other, to be away from the assembly session. You treat the President of the Assembly as a tutor and a teacher. Today you have come three times for the chair to speak to the President of the Assembly what to do and when to do. Today at the beginning of the assembly session, you told Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic that the break would take 15 minutes, which she later did. Every half hour you come up with some ideas, structures, etc. You, first of all, must not come to the table of chair in such a way, so you cannot come and instruct the President of the Assembly. I have known Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic for 15 years, she is a woman with integrity, with authority, I believe that when she agreed to run for president of the Assembly, although she comes from a smaller political party, she was also a regular university professor and that she was an expert in the area that some obviously need here and that she could help. I don't see a way to continue the assembly session with dignity if you continue as your MPs do to behave from the bench, you set a bad example. You, as head of the parliamentary group, instead of having dignity as one lady, as someone who personifies power, you come and give lectures to the president of the National Assembly. What does that look like? What are you here for? Tutor? Whose tutor? How much longer are we going to put up with this? So we won't. As you shout in the Ouuuuu, go out nicely in front of the congregation hall, so as God has given you, and later you come to Mrs. Dejanovic to ask for help, nice down the Prince of Michael with such shouts, to see how the people welcome those who walk the street, talk to themselves and play such screams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1381	Mr. Spasojevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1382	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to give you an important announcement. I didn't want to run this topic, because I thought this country should deal with more important things like Kosovo and, of course, it's the most important thing for Serbia. But I couldn't help but feel that when my colleague, Verica Radeta, came forward with this problem that had arisen in Belgrade, because you were on your way to an end, you were going into something that was in violation of every right. I'll tell you that in the King, from the city where I come from, we've received practically one letter of wishes from Minister Markovic, who tells us that we need to repeat the procedure for electing the city's organs. So I'm just going to read you a statement. So we didn't get any legal act, no opinion, we got nothing. Therefore, "To elect the city's authorities in accordance with the law, it is necessary for the assembly, following the verification of the mandate, to adopt a new rules of procedure for selecting the city's authorities." I call on Minister Markovic to come to this parliament and say where it stands in law and with which law he wrote something like this. I know that DS MPs from the Kings ten days ago at a congregation restaurant, when it was not the government's choice, invited Minister Markovic and pressured him to bring the King down. We will never, gentlemen People's MPs from DS and G17, allow the legal procedure we have made in the King to be annulled by such violence. Therefore, I warn the MPs of this position, and in the King's opposition, not to play, that the King's is an honorable and dignified city, that the congregation's majority in the city of the King has been achieved and that you do not perform any press, even if your minister, who, by the way, complained that he has great problems with you and that he has great pressure from you to bring down power at all costs in the King. Gentlemen, that's not gonna work for you. New Serbia's MPs will be here day and night if you dare to question such a totally legal assembly that has been elected to the King. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1383	Mr. Kragovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, because RIK is the authority that appointed the Serbian Parliament and has some misunderstandings that need to be clarified in order to determine what obligations and responsibilities of the Republic Election Commission are. Namely, what's going on? The mandate to hold elections in Kosovo and Metohija was given by the government of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic Election Commission. The same Republic Election Commission held elections, elections were successful and welcomed by the overall European and world public. Convinced all first-round committees proposed by various political parties have been issued. But what happens? There is a second moment, and that is that individual committees are elected to some functions where they can no longer be councilmen. We also sent this letter neatly to RIK from all municipalities and ask that RIK issue new assurances for new committees, which will fill the place for those elected to office, such as the president of the municipality or vice president of the municipality, members of municipal councils and the like, which is incompatible under the Law on Local Self-Government to be committee members. What's going on? We get an answer from RIK that it does not have a mandate, that it has a one-time mandate to call elections, and that all other actions cannot carry out and demand the government's opinion, a one-time dispute, one-time disinterest of the government of the Republic of Serbia that it gives a RIK order to carry out the operation, to issue new assurances so that we can fill the municipalities' congregations with an appropriate number of parliamentary seats. Once again, no matter what you don't care about Kosovo and you don't want to fight for Kosovo, at least let those of us down there get you local self-government to live, to function, that we can choose the committees, from the committee lists to fill out, so the municipalities can function. So again, Mr. Prime Minister, I point out this problem has a mandate and can give the RIK order to assist and provide instructions and logistics from the RIK, and in the future we will normally seek to stop the RIK mandate. We will form our own municipal election committees, because so far we have not had them, and in those municipalities where they were, they are not recognized. There is not a single municipal electoral commission in Kosovo and Metohija that would do that kind of work. I ask that, on the basis of this parliamentary question, this problem be resolved and that the order be given to the Republic Election Commission, so that it can do the job, and if you do not want that kind of help to be provided by the Republic Election Commission, then, in our municipalities, after issuing those beliefs, we will form our municipal electoral committees and normally change the committees in the way we need them and when we need them, somewhere in committee groups, somewhere by functions that are not in line. It is all of this that shows that you are overloaded on how to take over Belgrade, how to take over Nis, how to take over other cities across Serbia. You forgot about the problem with Kosovo and Metohija... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And that legal obligation that you must carry out. Obligation to remind you, Article 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is just saying that the citizen is protected from the state right through local self-government and through the province's assembly, but that the rights and obligations of these citizens can only be prevented by violating legality or constitutionality, and there is no violation here, but only by wanting to be established and created by Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, in order to cope with the survival and remnant on them, and also by allowing these 200,000... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... who have been exiled return to Kosovo and Metohija. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1385	Mr. Markovic answered. (Hope Kolundji: I first reported to the Rules of Procedure. Hope, please, you have the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1386	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's quite obvious that there is an intention here to obstruct today's session. This obstructs a single agenda, an important job standing before Serbia and a huge interest in these matters. It's just, I think the citizens see it, no matter what anyone will say about this pay phone after this. There is no doubt, then, that all those who appear in the Rules of Procedure today are in breach of the same Rules of Procedure in the most harsh way possible. I really have no intention of commenting on those who comment on me, because they're talking about themselves, they can't say anything about me. That's not what I want to talk about. At the same time, I need to protect the President of the Assembly. In the course of the session, I have a need to consult with her and on behalf of the session and try to make this assembly look like something, and we do the work for which the citizens sent us here, occasionally consult her, which is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I think it's something that needs to be done because sometimes I need some information, like she sometimes needs some information. It is a common effort for this congregation to run normally. Once again, however much you try to prevent 70% of Serbian citizens who believe that joining the EU is their life interest, that at least 70% of Serbian citizens who consider the gas arrangement to be their life-interest, 100% of citizens who consider it to be a ratification of international contracts that provide for the construction of hospitals, roads, bridges, etc. Their life interest, I must tell you that, regardless of your efforts to do so, we will find a way to do this job on behalf of the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1387	Miss Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1388	Madam President... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1389	Please allow Miss Jovanovic to speak to you. We'll stop, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1390	So, Mr. Djokovic, I thought you'd be the loudest and you'd go all the way. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-17-0.u1391	We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that today is Friday, that we are going to have a weekend and that it is necessary to assess what days we will be working on, regardless of what an extraordinary session is, and given the fact that a significant number of MPs are just arriving, I suggest that we agree with the heads of Parliament on how to work in the coming days, and I schedule for a half-eleven meeting of the heads of Parliament's groups. We will begin in eleven papers, until there will probably be a sufficient number of MPs present. (The session began at 11:15 p.m. )
